ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker and Mr Roberto Battelli. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber as representatives of the five thousand elections and voters to the 2nd item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 30th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move to the agenda of the meeting, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Respectable citizens and citizens, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members! During the rich and diverse history of our civilization, the symbolism of flowers has consistently accompanied man at every step of his daily life and remains so today. Such and different flowers mark the most joyful and tragic events of our lives, from birth to large and smaller life-forms, to the glory of our loved ones and ourselves. A special flower — the traveling flower of Srebrenica — arrived in the National Assembly today. With his presence among us, he brings a grim but hopeful message. On the one hand, it reminds us of more than 8,000 innocent lives, especially Muslim boys and men who ended violently 20 years ago in a brutal and carefully planned genocide that today represents the worst murder on European soil since the end of World War II. It also reminds us that, after the horrors of the Holocaust and Lemkin's successful efforts to create today's universal convention on the prevention and punishment of crime, we have learned little. The memory of the victims of Srebrenica thus repeatedly reveals in us the darkest and most twisted corners of human consciousness, where the feeling of belonging to one united and indivisible humanity is lost. The genocide represents not only a direct attack on his victims but on each of us. To ignore and kill humanity in someone means to deny the existence of the foundations of our civilization. Everyone in the sky climbing the tombstone in Potocari therefore represents not only the memory of the tragic dead but also the rise of humanity in relation to the commitment to the foundations of our common moral community. But there is also a message of hope from the green center of the world of Srebrenica. It looks forward to a brighter future based on the recognition and condemnation of distorted crimes, a decent attitude towards victims and the preservation of their memory, the failure to collect guilt, the bringing of those responsible before the time of justice, and, last but not least, the symbolic but sincere forgiveness. Both the survivors and relatives of the victims and the bloodhounds of the latter have already crossed a large part of this thorny path and some of it is still rising before them. We may not even be able to imagine the grief and bitterness that have plagued the survivors and relatives of the victims for two decades. That is why it is vital that we devise a narrative of righteousness toward the victims, to bring pain and an inevitable memory into our minds, to understand what it feels like to be forgotten, silenced, and crushed in you. Only then will we be able to express our genuine solidarity with those who are again mourning the deceased in the Srebrenica genocide. Solidarity is hope. Your Honor! Silver remains the great black mark of our generation. A mark that vividly reminds us of the broken promises at the end of World War II and of the worst mistakes and shortcomings of the politically crippled but not the powerless international community. Thus today, the European Parliament has adopted a third resolution marking tragic events in Srebrenica. I join this expression of compassion and solidarity on behalf of the National Assembly of Slovenia. Allow me to conclude with the profound thoughts of the German poet Bertolt Brecht. "When it was first reported that our friends had been butchered, there was a scream of horror. Then they took out a hundred of them. But when thousands were scattered, and the sea could not see the end, the veil of silence spread. When evil begins to fall like rain, no one screams enough. When crimes begin to accumulate, they become invisible. When suffering becomes unbearable, screams are no longer heard." Today, we make sure that we never forget the cries of the Srebrenica horror and that silence never hides them. Therefore, I politely invite you to write your thoughts down in the courtyard of the great hall in the book of remembrance of the traveling flower of Srebrenica. Your Honor! Let us bow to the memory of the Srebrenica victim with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ We are moving on to the agenda of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 2 July 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. The Joint Left Group proposes that the 29th item be withdrawn from the agenda of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, namely the Proposal for a Decree on the State Capital Investment Management Strategy, EPA 520 /7. You have received a withdrawal proposal and it is published on the e-club. Would you like a representative of the motioner to step down? The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the United Left, we propose to withdraw the item from the agenda, namely the State Capital Investment Management Strategy Decision. The reasons we're proposing this withdrawal are three. Firstly, the proposal we now have on the table does not allow for the implementation of the provisions of the SDH law. Article 4, 11, 28, 7, 17 and 30 of the SDH Act provides that the State Investment Management Strategy must also have defined non-financial objectives which are essential to determining whether or not a company is strategic and how it should be managed. One company is not strategic because it is large, but strategic because it manages certain development functions, some non-financial functions, it has some non-financial management objectives and it is therefore sensible to remain state-owned. This is not defined in this strategy that we have on the table, nor is the table where these objectives would be listed and clearly defined the criteria by which SDH, as an asset manager, should act in either the management or sale of these companies. This is too much manna for us to overlook and let go of the strategy. Besides, there are two other shortcomings. Following a procedural decision, the proposal was first not in line with the Law-Legal Service, which pointed to a series of shortcomings. But the government coalition here has not drafted amendments and the proposal is still inconsistent with the recommendations of the Legal and Legislative Service. The third reason is that the strategy's decision is based on documents that have not been adopted at all. Here I am talking mainly about the insurance and banking strategy, which are essentially government labour materials, and Members and Members of Parliament have not even been given an insight, nor have we had the opportunity to express themselves, let alone make decisions. Thus, the assumptions of this strategy can be said not to be nationally coordinated objectives, but to some of the government's working materials, which were neither accepted nor dealt with, but the strategy is based on them and takes them for its assumptions. It's unacceptable to us. Therefore, for all three reasons, we say, firstly, the lack of non-financial objectives, secondly, the justification on documents that have not yet been adopted, and thirdly, non-compliance with the Legal and Legal Service, we propose that the point be withdrawn from the agenda and that these non-consistentities be eliminated, since we are not finally talking about more than 11 billion state assets here and it would be irresponsible to leave them to the strategy in this way as it is now prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u3	Would you like a word from the government? Mr Method Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that all the business provisions have been complied with and that the proposal for a decree is appropriate for consideration and adoption in the National Assembly. I'll give you a quick explanation. The first reason given by the applicant is that the document does not contain all the key elements provided for in the SDH Act. Article 28 of the Act stipulates that the capital investment management strategy is determined by three key issues. Definition and classification of investments in individual types of investment, in accordance with Article 10 of this Law. The proposal contains this. Second indent, definition of the development guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia as shareholders and shareholders of companies for all companies subject to consideration in this strategy. Developmental orientations are defined. Furthermore, some broader sectoral orientations are also identified and we refer to those strategic documents that are either adopted, valid or in the stage of consideration and preparation, so that the proposal goes beyond just the provision of the law. And the third indent, the individual strategic objectives that the Republic of Slovenia wishes to achieve with each investment defined as strategic. For each investment defined as strategic and also for significant investments, we have set indicator systems, first the targets and then the indicators that we want to guide SDH when it manages these investments. The comments of the Legal and Legislative Service shall be taken into account as far as possible. But they're not all taken into account. Those comments, which are not taken into account, are duly substantiated. Thirdly, as regards the so-called non-commercial objectives, it should be stressed that investments are managed in accordance with the spirit of the law in accordance with capital principles. The non-financial objectives are partially covered and form an integral part of the strategy, including the employment and participation of employees, employees' representatives, both in the work of SDH and in state-owned enterprises, but it is possible to complement these non-financial objectives at the level of companies. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the strategy does not limit. [[…]] We therefore consider the proposal to withdraw the point to be unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u5	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u6	Yes, unfortunately there is no room for controversy here, but on the committee in charge where we have addressed the strategy, we have made it very clear that the explanations presented by the Secretary are not sufficient. It is true that the proposal for a strategy contains some of the provisions of Article 18 of the State Holding Act, but I have pointed out here at least six articles, namely Articles 4, 11, 7, 17, 30 and 28, which make it very clear that the non-financial objectives of public investment must be defined and that it must be determined how the State should, in accordance with the instructions given by the National Assembly, and this is the strategy, have these investments and ultimately manage them as strategic. Once again, the strategic nature of the investment is measured directly through non-financial targets, it is said that an undertaking manages a target that is not exclusively profitable but is broader, developmental. For this reason, we need substantive guidance to be followed by the Slovenian State Holding Company. But that's not what this strategy is about. It is therefore harmful to leave to the State holding company free to dispose of more than 11 billion state assets on such surface-defined objectives and thus a surface-defined strategy. In addition, I reiterate that the strategies that this strategy takes as an assumption have neither been addressed nor adopted in the National Assembly, and that we cannot accept some of the objectives that are essentially government work materials as national coordinated priorities. First of all, we need Members to be given reading, viewing and deciding both the banking strategy and the insurance strategy, so that we can only adopt or not adopt the objectives that these two strategies define. Furthermore, the Secretary-General said that the comments by the Legislative and Legal Service had been taken into account. I don't understand. Because they weren't. The considerations have not been resolved, we have generally received a brief explanation, but in no way have these inconsistencies and shortcomings contained in the strategy been addressed. Therefore, I propose that we withdraw today from the agenda, take more time as the National Assembly and get a much more complete strategy in autumn at the table, which will actually allow responsible management of 11 billion state assets, than today to take a step or even more of them in the wrong direction by adopting this strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u7	I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for withdrawal. We're moving on to decision-making. There is no explanation at this point. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the 29th item from the agenda of the meeting. It's not working? We'll wait for it to work. Did you check it out? It's working. If it works, then we can vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 5. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the agenda of the 9th session has been set. We're moving on to 30. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Conclusions on the Peace of the mandate of the Member on the basis of Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members. The Government forwarded the decision of 12 June 2015 to the National Assembly, which shows that it was a Mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, the following decision should be taken: Ms Margareta Guček Zakošek, appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, is unable to act as a Member from today in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members as long as she serves as Secretary of State. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission of that decision and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate or candidate will replace that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Committee on Elections of the State will draw up a report and forward it to the assembly. The delegation appointed as Secretary of State shall be temporarily unable to act as a Member of Parliament and shall be informed of the following decision by the Assembly of the State pursuant to Article 112, Article 200 and Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly: Margareti Guček Zakošek, who is temporarily unable to perform her post as secretary of state at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, terminates her office as president of the Committee on the Economy. It shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I thank my former fellow Member for her work and wish her much success in her further work. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on enforcement and insurance following a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Members of Parliament, distinguished Members of Parliament! We have before us the Law on Enforcement and Insurance – already the "K" novel of this law. The enforcement procedure is the final stage by which the constitutional right to judicial protection provided for in Article 23 of the Constitution is exercised, but the effective implementation of the creditor’s claim cannot be achieved at any cost and in any way. In addition to being legal, Slovenia is a social state, and human and personal dignity also applies to the debtor. And it is to these principles and measures, which the Government has committed itself to this year's signing of the Social Agreement, that follows a relatively short proposal, but in our opinion an important novel which is before you. What do we suggest? Four points. Firstly, the amount protected from execution shall be equal to the minimum net salary. It's rising by a few ten euros. It is not much, but it is important for socially vulnerable groups. The implementation of the veterinary supplement, which has been possible so far, shall be limited. To a new and clearer extent, it regulates and protects the situation of non-contributory debtors, for example due to the irregular payment of salaries, the delay in deciding on social rights or the poor solvency of the employer, for example, the delay of the remuneration for several months. From enforcement we then continue to exempt certain other benefits which are of a social nature and which are provided by the State in the context of social transfers. For example, a one-time allowance will be excluded when the child is placed in a foster home, which could now be the subject or object of execution. However, one of the key and in our view of more important changes represents, in our view, an unacceptable and even unworthy practice of some, I repeat, some banks that, in their executions so far, have directly charged from the current accounts of the committees the high handling costs of the recipients of financial social assistance, and thus, past the creditors, have also intervened in the survival minimum of these persons. To put it simply and otherwise, through social transfer, the country has directed, say, EUR 300 of monetary social assistance to someone, and the bank is of that kind of EUR 30, the right tenth simply came out of the current account due to the so-called manipulative costs. As we carefully weigh the constitutional right to a free economic initiative, on the one hand, and on the other, to the social component of property and the principle of the rule of law and social state, we have decided to legally restrict such practices, which are similarly regulated and limited in other countries, in particular Germany. To conclude, the novel in front of you is focused on regulating the existence of the debtor's position in the executive procedure. It does not address all issues, many issues still need to be settled, but I would like to point out that the adoption of clearer rules governing the situation of socially vulnerable debtors, and we are talking about them, will be a step forward in the implementation of the social state principle. However, it will still not be addressed to the core of the right to effective judicial protection, which the Constitution must provide to the creditor. If the amendment is adopted today, it will also have immediate positive effects on the most vulnerable. Finally, I will add that I was pleased when the novel was unanimously confirmed by the opposition and the position on the Committee on Justice, where it was dealt with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u9	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is at its 9th session. 7. as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The summary procedure was also confirmed by the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. The representative of the motioner, the Minister of Justice, said in a supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law was implementing the constitutional principle of the social state and the following solutions. The costs of enforcement decisions shall be limited in the case of gross remuneration, the enforcement restriction arrangements shall be amended so that the minimum amount to be left to the debtor in the event of enforcement shall not be lower than the minimum net salary, thereby fulfilling the applicant’s commitment under the social agreement for the period 2015-2016. Enforcement of a veterinary supplement shall be limited so that it may be cut down only in the case of enforcement for recovery of the claim for legal maintenance and compensation for the loss of maintenance due to the death of the person who gave it. The performance shall be exempted from the single remuneration when the child is placed in a foster family and the remuneration of the debtor under the labour market regulation law, the imposition of higher restrictions on the survival of family members is more clearly regulated and the enforcement restriction regime is amended when the debtor receives lump sums for several months together. In addition, the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities presented the problems faced by recipients of financial social assistance in the case of blocked bank accounts and announced changes to the so-called social card and legal changes to the tax procedure. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service made a comment on Article 2 which had not been taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. With the increase in the amount of remuneration protected to remain after enforcement of the debtor in the case of ordinary claims, from 70% to 76% of the minimum gross wage, the inequity of this issue in civil and tax enforcement is introduced. With regard to the proposed method of exercising entitlement to a higher restriction on the survival of a family member or other person who is obliged by the debtor to survive under the law of the enforcement decision enforcer. The Legal and Legislative Service has also warned us that the creditor will not be aware of the decision of the perpetrator, which will make it difficult for him to effectively challenge this decision before the court. The State Council presented the written opinion of the State Council Commission on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law and calls for the attention of all stakeholders to be taken into account. It is necessary to address the social hardships of people who are also caused by executions and their payments, to prevent poverty and to ensure dignity for citizens. The representative of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia said that their comments were only partially taken into account at the time of the preparation of the legal amendments. Among other things, it noted that banks would be paid in front of other creditors for the costs of enforcing the enforcement decision despite the proposed amendment and thus put in a worse position. However, the Director of the Association of Banks said that the Association of Banks of Slovenia was aware of its social responsibilities in the execution process, so they had failed to propose to the recipients of money social assistance, which had a blocked account, a special account, a prepaid card or a cash card. They also proposed that the costs of banks should be recognised as the costs incurred by the creditor and that, on the basis of the proposed changes, the banks should be expected to provide the services free of charge. He also pointed out that banks must also protect the rights of the creditor and not just the debtor in enforcement proceedings. Members supported the proposed amendments in the debate, following the implementation of the social state principle and better safeguarding the right to personal dignity and security. Some additional questions were raised and findings were made regarding the establishment of a minimum wage limitation, the area of care, real estate enforcement, to which additional clarifications were submitted by the representatives of the proposer. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups and did not accept the amendments of the United Left Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and supported all articles of the draft law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u11	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much, again, for your word. The proposal for a new law on enforcement and insurance, which we are considering today, came from the initiative of the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the equal opportunity of Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, together with the Minister of Justice. It follows the implementation of the social state principle and adequately protects the right to personal dignity and security. At the warning of the Minister of Labour, Civil Society and Courts, enforcement will be limited or disabled in the case of a veteran supplement and a one-time allowance for the placement of a child in a foster family, as proposed by the law under consideration at the plenary session of the National Assembly today. Let us also recall cases where the situation of people with already low incomes has worsened, including by charging the costs of banks that have charged more than 30 euros for the costs of implementation. This is also regulated by this law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has signed a document with the social partners, is also implementing this measure for the period 2015-2016 as set out in point 1.2 of this Agreement, which also provides for the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance in such a way as to prevent a disproportionate interference with the reimbursement of labour costs by means of an enforcement measure. With the proposed amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, we therefore follow this agreement also in this House, and we also follow the constitutional principle on the social state. We have supported the proposed amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance on the home working body. This is what we will do today, but it will not be too much if we say that we want to see the number of unemployed people decrease, while the income from work is so high that it is enough to live a decent life. A decent life means that working people will be able to take care of themselves and their families, and wages, in addition to dignity and decent living during an active period, will also provide a sufficiently high basis for living in peace. In fact, economic growth must be felt as soon as possible by those who have felt the most economic and financial crisis in recent years, and generally not by their own fault. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u13	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The substantive amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance relates to the raising of a protected amount. The funds which cannot be rolled out in the execution process are raised from 70% of the minimum wage to 76% of the minimum wage. While this is not a big raise, it is one of the few socially oriented measures proposed by the government to date. Therefore, according to the new debtor, at least EUR 600 must remain in the account. In addition, the proposal provides that these funds cannot be paid by banks which charge specific costs in relation to enforcement. We support both essential solutions in the United Left, but we cannot help but feel that this is some kind of fire-fighting action by the government, which is trying to enforce the social state principle before summer and to propose some reforms. The novelty thus solves only two problems that arise in relation to enforcement procedures, but does not solve all other problems that arise in practice. Thus, even after the changes in the law have been implemented, it will still be possible to plug the property into 100 or some 100 euros in debt. Banks will still be able to charge high costs only to verify how much money the debtor has in the account. The proposal also does not change the unfair system, whereby the costs of enforcement paid by the debtor are equally high, regardless of the amount of the claim, for 10 or million euros. You can still forget to pay the bill for EUR 25 without receiving at least a reminder and the execution process will begin against you. If implementation succeeds, you will pay 55 Euros of judicial fees in addition to the 25 Euros of debt, and you will settle the costs of the bank, which can also be more than 30 Euros. For 25 euros, it is €80. Nor is such an arrangement best in line with the rule of law of the social state, but obviously for the government it is not a pressing problem enough to solve it. As stated by the Government, the proposal also fulfils the commitment under the Social Agreement. In doing so, we note that only one part of the commitment is fulfilled. At the time of the increase in the protected amount, the Government also committed itself to examining the appropriateness of judicial practice and legislation with a view to preventing disproportionate interference with the reimbursement of labour costs. This second part obviously ran out of time for the government, or she didn't take it at all. Therefore, the bill certainly does not solve all the problems that need to be addressed as soon as possible. We have therefore proposed some additions in the United Left to solve at least three other problems, but the coalition has rejected them without any justification. For example, we have proposed that banks be prevented from charging costs only in order to find that implementation is not possible by looking at the transaction account. Such arrangements are also known in other countries, such as Germany, which is a great example for the government and the coalition. Unfortunately, the amendment coalition did not support and the banks will be able to continue to charge these costs. We have also proposed two solutions for this meeting of the National Assembly and today's hearing. The first refers to a clear determination that the enforcement procedure cannot be initiated if the creditor fails to issue a notice to the debtor of payment of the outstanding claim and also sets a time limit for payment. In practice, there are increasing cases of creditors initiating a procedure without prior notice, which means that individual debtors did not settle the claim because they did not even know it existed. Given that we have such a provision when it comes to the provision of public services and goods, and it is laid down in the Consumer Protection Act, we do not see any strong arguments that this should not be established in all other cases. The second refers to the same determination of protected income in the Tax Procedure Act. The State's obligation to provide everyone with a life of dignity is the same, regardless of whether it is tax enforcement or civil enforcement, has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Moreover, it is not possible to find any valid reason for the State to be more voracious than other creditors. It is true that FURS was mostly exposed to media due to its poor enforcement practices. Our second amendment will not be voted on because of formal reservations made by the professional services of the National Assembly. However, given that Minister Klemenčič supported its content on the Committee, we expect the government to propose harmonisation of both laws as soon as possible. If that does not happen, the United Left will again do the work that should be done by the government. As I said at the outset, we will support the proposal for a law in the United Left, but we expect the government to approach all other problems in this area in particular related to enforcement, real estate and the unfair system of fees and enforcement costs as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u16	Honourable President, President, Honourable Minister, Colleagues and colleagues! The existing Law on Enforcement and Insurance, adopted in 1998, was subject to a number of amendments and additions, all with a view to improving the procedure and speeding up enforcement procedures. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we only assess enforcement legislation for good but a pressing problem, the longevity of enforcement procedures within this area, and in particular real estate executions, we have not been able to shorten. This is reflected in the data of the 2014 annual report on the work of the courts. Although progress has been seen in the area of real estate enforcement in 2014, which, of course, is also due to legislative changes in this area adopted last year, but the backlogs of past years are still far too large, they cover several cases. The proposal is also expected, and the time for solving individual real estate executions is still too long. At this point, we must stress that the Christian Democrats had greater expectations about the success of the courts in this area. In particular, the Presidents of the Courts could, with their powers under the Law on Courts, do more to resolve matters more quickly in this area. Today's amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance interferes with the position and rights of the debtor. In particular, the amendment restricts enforcement by interfering with the means that provide for the existence of a minimum of debtors and other family members if the debtor is obliged to survive them. This is set to the amount of net minimum wage. Some benefits such as unemployment benefits, reimbursement of costs, education, a veteran supplement and a one-time allowance when placing a child in a foster family are also exempt from enforcement. We support the proposed changes by the Christian Democrats. As we have already warned on the working body, we expect the government or the ministry to definitively manage the costs of execution or handling costs charged by the bank to the debtor in enforcing enforcement decisions. In view of the fact that the enforcement of a judicial decision is an enforcement decision, the legal obligation of the bank, in our opinion, is not the same as that of the employer, where enforcement is carried out on the basis of a pension, is not entitled to such costs. The cost which most banks charge to enforce the enforcement decision is very high. According to our data, there are about 30 euros for each execution and above 10% of the amount of financial social assistance. We can calculate for ourselves the amount of funds left to the debtor if it has multiple executions in the process. Practically nothing. As far as we are aware, this cost is charged by several Slovenian banks, although according to the Ministry of Justice they have no legal basis for charging this cost. In the case of a cartel agreement between banks, we expect the Ministry to take the necessary action against all these banks to establish an appropriate procedure before the supervisory authority. A suitable solution to the problem of the debtor's protected remuneration would also be the introduction of a social account or social card, and we expect the early realization of this project, according to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities already in preparation. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, as has already been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u17	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u18	In fact, in the Alliance, we are pleased that the government has intervened in this law and settled it in a way that will address the issue for at least 10,000 people in debt or recipients of social assistance. Why are we really happy? We are pleased that the banks are certainly not the ones that could be affected by such a measure economically so that they can no longer operate. Moreover, we are convinced that to this day they have actually been legally but illegally charging such costs. We will not lose a lot of words in the Alliance because everything has already been told on the committee. In the end, all I can say is that we support this law in the Alliance and that is why we will also give up time in the debate itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u20	Dear President, Your Honor Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are pleased that all parliamentary groups express their intention to support the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. It's a social novel. I have already experienced quite a few of these novelties in court, and none has been as socialally oriented as this one, so I am pleased that it is such a broad support for this novel. It is about fulfilling commitments, even in part under the Social Agreement for 2015 and 2016. Why did the Ministry not propose to amend the whole law on enforcement and insurance, why are these proposed amendments only? Because it is a very complex law whose comprehensive change would take a lot longer. We must not wait for a social emergency change so that we can now consider all other solutions for a while, so we believe that these social changes need to be adopted immediately. I will not repeat everything the predecessors have already said, what are the essential changes. In particular, what we have all already said is that banks will be prevented from charging these manipulative costs in the enforcement decision, because employers have not done so, only some banks have done so to prevent banks from charging these manipulative costs in front of all other creditors. The debtor, who is indeed in debt, cannot be deprived of that social minimum, i.e. minimum wages or benefits exempted from enforcement. Of course, it has to pay its obligations, but it must maintain the minimum necessary for survival, even when it comes to the enforcement of bank benefits. Some others, such as a veteran supplement and a one-time allowance when a child is placed in a foster family, are exempt, as the case law is such that, if the benefit is not expressly excluded from enforcement, the courts considered that, if it is not expressly stated in the law, it is not exempt from enforcement and that enforcement was also carried out on such benefits. A very welcome change is a limitation on execution when the debtor receives benefits for several months at a time or in a sequence, i.e. those to which enforcement would otherwise be limited, but receives them at a time and so far only the minimum wage or minimum amount to which enforcement is limited and is actually damaged for amounts if it receives individual amounts per month. So welcome is the change that will be accepted in the Group of the parties of the modern centre because it is a matter of a more consistent implementation of the principle of the social state, despite the fact that the implementation is intended primarily for the payment of the creditor, but as we have said, in order to maintain that social minimum. At the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposed amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u21	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much. For the laws passed so far by Mr Klemenčič, we have generally said that they are ornaments, that they are irrelevant things, etc. And that's what they were. As for the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, in which the minister or government is concerned, we cannot say that, of course. In fact, this law is proof of something else, namely that it is possible to do good things by interfering with legislation, doing things that are for the benefit of citizens and less in favour of those such as banks. The law on enforcement and insurance, which is easily protected against enforcement from the point of view of minimum wage, then from the point of view of veteran supplements, then from the point of view of the single aid benefits received, the option, if it receives more income within one month, then the one-off allowance when placed in a foster family and similar, is all the measures that follow our assessment in the right direction, so we will support the law. We will also support the amendments, I think the United Left has repeated them, and the amendments will also receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected and respected! The aim of the bill is to implement the constitutional principle of the social state. Thus, one of the major proposed changes to the limitation of enforcement is in such a way that the minimum amount to be secured to the debtor in the event of enforcement is not lower than the minimum net salary. In order to fulfil the commitment under the Social Agreement, it is proposed to raise the amount protected, which must remain after the recovery of the so-called ordinary claims, from 70% to 76% of the gross minimum wage. This limits the possibility of enforcement to the resources necessary to meet basic needs of life. It follows from the constitutional principle of the rule of law that enforcement for the payment of the creditor is not permitted on matters and rights necessary to satisfy the basic life needs of the debtor and persons dependent on his or her income. A very important novelty brought by the novelty has also been the removal of the anomalies that have so far taken place in cases where the enforcer of the enforcement decision on the basis of the contractual relationship for the payment of the costs he has by means of execution has also affected the benefits that are exempt from enforcement and from which the creditor cannot be paid. Thus, after the bank’s current regulation, even though financial social assistance is exempted from enforcement, they also apply to these funds for the payment of their costs. And it happened that the amount of these manipulative costs charged by the banks was also 10%, for example, of the social assistance received by the person. The amendment of this law is necessary for the survival of people who are in distress and are therefore entitled to state aid, and it is only right that they remain in the amount intended for survival. It is also important to amend the law concerning the restriction of enforcement to a veterinary supplement. The law provides that it is possible to cut into a veterinary supplement only in the case of enforcement of claims for legal maintenance and compensation for loss of maintenance due to the death of the person who said it. There are different interpretations following the current regime, and this amendment proposes to regulate the problem in a way that there will be no doubt that the veterinary supplement cannot be cut off except in these two cases. It follows from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that enforcement of the salary and other remuneration of the debtor must not be affected to such an extent that its existence minimum would be jeopardised, as this would endanger its social security and its dignity. The bill aims to implement the constitutional principle of the social state. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we advocate a social just and legal state, so we support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the existing regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u25	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I inform you that two amendments have been tabled to the draft law, but we will not discuss or vote on the amendment to the new Article 6a, since it was tabled in contravention of the third paragraphs of Article 129 and Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You were informed of this by my letter of 8 July 2015. I am putting to the debate the second article and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. In the United Left we have tabled these amendments to Article 2. As I have already stated in my position, the new paragraph refers to the fact that enforcement procedures on money cannot be initiated without a prior notice. I think that in practice it has already been clear that there are many such cases where creditors initiate an enforcement procedure without the knowledge of the debtor, without prior informing the person who owes that debt exists and needs to be settled, which entails a lot of additional costs for creditors. If we now assume that these debts are due to some social aspects, that is to say, what is also the basic principle of this law, because these debts simply cannot be settled, or because of other circumstances, I think it would make sense to include this possibility in the law, it is said that creditors issue this warning before initiating the enforcement process. In doing so, we should add another legal deadline within which payments must be made, and thus, in part, the purpose of the law, it is said, to make this social adjustment in the enforcement process. This reminder is indeed a minimum, I do not think it substantially prolongs the procedure, nor puts creditors in a worse position. It simply gives another possibility for the debtor to determine, in some way, his debt and, otherwise, his execution as specified. This deficiency has proved to be in practice. This solution already exists as regards the provisions laid down in the Consumer Protection Act. So, in a way, we already have a part of this arranged, so the reminders are mandatory. Now it's simple, if we're already correcting this law, let's put it in this part. Even though you said that there would be no debate on Article 6a, I would just like to point out that we have only tried with this amendment for a new Article 6a to regulate this matter of compliance between the two laws. In short, now with this law we will have two different rates for the same thing, on the one hand 70%, on the other hand 76%. We have therefore proposed that this should be regulated in the transitional provisions, and in this way we would settle this discrepancy at that time. While the Minister has already said on the Committee that the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act is also being prepared, but given that it is likely to take some time for the preparation and adoption of this new law, it would make sense in this transitional period to harmonise and resolve this issue, it is said that these two levels are equal, that is 76%. And in my own way, I don't understand why we wouldn't put this amendment to the vote and accept it. I would also like to hear the government's position on when this will be done, how quickly this will be accepted and when this disagreement will be resolved. If I go back to Article 2, I call on everyone to think about it. A small reminder to be introduced into this law can help to resolve the financial distress of many debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u27	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member! First of all, with respect to Article 2. I would like to stress very sincerely why this article cannot be supported. We have two types of executions if I make it very easy. One is the one that happens on the basis of a judicial decision. In such a case, you cannot prescribe by law that after you have already received the executive address by a judicial decision as a creditor, you will then again invite the person to pay, since this could be problematic from this point of view that you had to sue first and so forth. Nor does any other code, bond code, or other law prescribe it. I don't think that's the problem you're putting out. Then we have another type of execution. This is an enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument. That's when you don't pay the bill, and it goes straight to execution. Yes, you can. Some do it, others it's just a matter of a creditor's decision. [[…]] Now, look, if we take this away, because none of these articles are open to hang it on article 102, it's a little systemicly problematic, but we all know that there's a lot to be done. What cannot be done, however, is that enforcement on the basis of a credible charter in Slovenia is fully informed. The procedure is fully informed. COVL, it's called. This is a matter that is not the only one, but is one of the rare things that really runs quickly in Slovenia. The information system has been put in place, and it has also been praised in the European Union because it is fast, etc. This element may be problematic, I understand it, but if we wrote it down in law, we would have broken the system, the system could no longer be electronic. When we spoke to the Supreme Court, they said that if this change had taken place before it was established, we should change the computer program. It's not that simple. It costs something. That's the first thing. Another time. If you give a legal condition that the creditor must first inform someone if this is a procedural assumption, then you must also have reason to be able to come to justice, to determine whether he really sent a warning or not, etc. So, frankly, when I saw it, it seemed kind of logical. As one additional element which would otherwise prolong executions. We have two conflicting interests here. At the same session, sometimes we say that enforcement procedures are one of the slowest, we don't protect enough creditors, they pay too slowly, on the other hand, people forget their accounts. Everyone forgets to pay the bill. So did I. And it went straight to execution. The fact is, at this point, this would entail a change in the existing system, which would entail costs. I'm not so sure that would be wise. So much for this amendment. That is why we oppose him in this part. Since you have also highlighted that amendment, which you have not tabled, I would just like to say that the Tax Procedure Act is in phase, that the inter-departmental and professional coordination has already been completed, is concluded. Here I have the text of the proposed articles going this way. However, I would like to point out that even if this amendment could be tabled, it would not solve the situation, because it would save only 70 to 76, but not all the other things that we have put in here: veterinary supplement, foster care, etc. This will be resolved by this, although it is not a law with the Ministry of Justice, as has been said, we have already prepared, once we have drafted this law, the text of the proposed articles and the matter will be in September, I suppose, in the government and then in Parliament. We're definitely going to stand for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u29	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. The Minister mentioned that we have two types of executions, so to speak, of judicial decisions that arise, and here I believe that the amendment proposal would be a bit unusual. In other credible documents that are emerging, however, I must say that I have given much thought to this amendment, and given the age of information technology that we have, I also wonder what will happen in the event that we have this system to receive the accounts computerically. My email address is collapsing. I just couldn't get this account or I couldn't open it. For this account, because I didn't pay him in time, I don't get a reminder and I get a direct execution. The performance, of course, is worth it. Therefore, in this place, it is only for the applicant to consider that it would make sense to think in this direction. Not to mention that, say, executions are given for years ago. In particular, I can talk about one case, I am talking about a very small amount of implementation, and a proposal for enforcement was made for 2015. If the debtor had been alerted to this amount, no execution would have taken place at that time because that amount would have settled. I may indeed appeal to the applicant because I believe that there will still be a lot of these changes, to consider this provision and this information technology, which is also often a failure. In order to include this doctrine in the law among the changes envisaged for the future. Perhaps this 102th article, which we now have, does not belong in this context, but only really in thought again. You have indeed indicated that the information system in the courts should be upgraded for this reason, but I think that there is a small indent when the creditor submits a request for enforcement, we know that the executions are made in electronic form, only below the indent "was given a warning" or a reminder. And I don't think that's such a big cost either. It would be very interesting to ask again if you would look at the costs incurred by the Court to upgrade the information system and, on the other hand, at the cost of those individuals who invest in these executions. This is only in consideration for the proposaler to consider this dictatorship in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u31	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much. With regard to this amendment to Article 2, which would have laid down, if such a solution had been adopted, the obligation that the creditor should only, in the case of enforcement of assets in the debtor's account, have shown that it had given a reminder. If you know the execution, you know that execution can take place on more than one basis. If I now had the possibility that the creditor must show that he had sent a reminder to the debtor for only one remedy, then all other enforcement measures would be dealt with irreparably. And since other articles are not open, this would not apply to wages, to real estate, I don't know, to shares and to securities, whatever else, to other claims, then this would be an unequal treatment. And since the other articles are not open, we cannot deal with this amendment alone. As far as I am aware of these reminders, most creditors, although they are not committed, also send these warnings. But if we look at the creditor's interest, because it's primarily in the execution process, it's that everyone has to respect the contract. Anyone who commits to a service to pay the bill must know that the obligation is due. Then perhaps we should also consider amending the bond code and so on. One such minor change that the creditor is obliged to send a reminder to the debtor, even though the debtor knows that he has signed the contract, that the obligation is due, and that he must respect the obligation, is not just one small change that we would now only accept with this amendment, but is a change that would lead to systemic inconsistencies throughout the Enforcement and Insurance Act. Therefore, this amendment cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u33	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u34	I personally believe that regardless of the type of execution, and even if it is a court decision, this should not be an obstacle. But I do have one question that is very specific. We have this thing written down in this way in the Consumer Protection Act. How it is implemented there and how it is possible there to carry out this mandatory reminder before execution. On the other hand, speaking of creditors, we have two very different categories of creditors here. On the one hand, there are, of course, those who account for certain services or anything, and on the other hand, we have a case of workers who have to go to the employer ten times to ask for a salary, literally. But the first thing that happens then is that they have to go to the court of law. Only after the decision of the Working Court can they go to enforcement. I think that if the workers who have earned their salary have to wait and go through this process, this should not be any problem for the other creditors. If we are talking about the protection of creditors, let us evaluate them equally. However, I am seriously interested in how this is regulated in the Consumer Protection Act and how it is implemented there.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u35	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u36	First of all, I would like to reiterate that, for reasons which have been better presented by my colleague, colleague Murgel, in fact, this amendment cannot be supported. But it may be possible to think about it at the next novel, and it is a law that changes many times, which is good or bad. As far as the Consumer Protection Act is concerned, frankly, I don't know the system enough to know. Now my colleague here is going to give me a yes, just like I thought. [[…]] The Consumers Act has no direct connection to enforcement, but it does talk about consumer protection in different cases, such as receiving credits, holding interest payments and so on. There is a requirement for a prior warning. However, I doubt – so the professional services have now provided us – that this would be directly linked to, say, the payment of services already falling in the case of a signed contract, as often as possible, municipal services or such.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u37	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment to Article 2 will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, this is another defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the criminal law following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a novel of the Penal Code, one of the most sensitive laws in the legislative process, which needs to be changed rarely and thoughtfully. It is a relatively small novel, but it is a significant change in our view. What are these changes? In addition, the protection of vulnerable groups under which the complex includes a different definition of the crime of trafficking in human beings, the introduction of a new criminal offence of stalking, the introduction of a new criminal offence of coerced marriages and the establishment of similar communities, and the introduction of a new security measure to prohibit communication or approximation to victims of criminal offences. The next important issue is that the crime of threat or threat to security, which has since the last novelty been turned into a prosecution of a private action, which has been repeatedly criticised by the victims of civil society and even by the detection and prosecution authorities, is being reintroduced in the course of the criminal proceedings and is being prosecuted on a proposal. It removes or limits the statute of limitations, almost eliminates, the execution of penalties in cases where a convicted person escapes the occurrence of a sentence, for example by fleeing, even before the time of the sentence, as it is said. In our view, then, in view of the necessary additional protection of freedom of expression and public interest, we propose the introduction of a partial exclusion of criminality in the event of the offence of issuing classified information under Article 260 of the Penal Code and introduce the possibility of protecting whistleblowers in this area. From the point of view of protecting the financial, fiscal and public interests of the State, where the principle of the social state also applies, the elements of the criminal offence of tax evasion, where incrimination is strengthened, if I say so simply. The Government is also proposing a proportionate increase in the penalties for corruption offences, which on the one hand means an important message and a reflection of the fact that the offences that are dangerous to society would, on the other hand, be reflected in the procedural powers and types of proceedings and the type of courts which would deal with them. If this proposal is adopted, all corruption crimes in the Republic of Slovenia will fall under the jurisdiction of the district courts, and the related powers of the detection and prosecution authorities investigating these acts. The proposal complements and amends the descriptions of certain other offences, mainly for the purpose of enforcing the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia under the Directive of the European Union and of the Council of Europe and corrects certain minor shortcomings identified in the implementation of the international obligations of the State. In this area, too, I am pleased to note that the Committee on Justice unanimously supported the proposed amendments to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u39	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is at its 9th session. Seven. 2015 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 22. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee had previously taken note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, the clarifications of the Ministry to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the letters of non-governmental organisations. The representative of the applicant stressed in the supplementary explanation that the Penal Code is one of the most sensitive laws and should therefore be carefully amended. The novelty brings changes to the protection of the most vulnerable groups, minors, victims of trafficking in human beings and victims of threats. As an important novelty, he also highlighted the proposed exclusion of the criminality of disclosure of classified information due to the prevailing public interest and freedom of expression. Ms Špela Maček Gustin, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, said that most of the comments made were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, but reiterated in article 14, that the proposed regulation meant the practical abolition of the institution of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which could be disputed in terms of the principle of the rule of law. It also raises the question of the eligibility of the enforcement of criminal sanctions after a longer period of time, as the impact of criminal law institutions is decreasing. With regard to Article 17 proposed, however, it was considered that the lex cert principle was insufficient in criminal law, and that the terms were also not legally harmonised with the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The State Council Commission supports the proposal for a law and points out that the proposed increase in the penalty for corruption could undermine the relationship between penalties and the problems faced by social work centres in replacing prison sentences with work for the general benefit. In the opinion of the Slovenian Bar Association, the proposed amendment to the suspension of the execution of the sentence means the actual abolition of this institution. They are also opposed to the re-emerging of criminal penalties for corruption, as they believe that the disproportionate length of time for prosecution is also increasing. NGOs dealing with forced marriage, domestic violence and victim protection, welcome the proposed changes. In the debate, the Members supported the proposed amendments and the Committee also adopted the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 1, 10, 14, 17, 22, 25, 26 and 32 and SDS to Article 17 and its amendments to Articles 16 and 25. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the United Left Group to Articles 8, 16 and 17 and of the SDS Group of Ambassadors to Articles 18 and 19. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted jointly on all articles of the bill and adopted them unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u41	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you. The Novela of the Penal Code, which we are considering today, is mainly due to the problem of prosecution of journalists. In February, we in the United Left requested an urgent meeting of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Home Affairs on this issue. The meeting also adopted a decision calling on the government to prepare the necessary amendments to the Penal Code as soon as possible. In particular, it is a matter of reporting the publication of those classified information for which the public interest, after disclosure, prevails over the public interest after the preservation of confidentiality. We support these changes in the United Left. In addition to regulating this issue, the Ministry has included several other amendments to the amendment of the law. If, on the one hand, there is an urgent need for changes relating to trafficking in human beings and forced marriages, on the other hand, we are not most excited about raising the level of the risk of imprisonment for corruption crimes. It is not clear from the explanation why the Ministry has only proposed these crimes and why this should be necessary. If we look at the police reports and data from the state prosecutors, it is clear that the problem is not the level of the penalties at stake, but the difficulty of detecting and prosecuting these crimes. For example, the NPU filed 21 such complaints last year. The prosecution received 159 of them together. Of these, 56 indictments were filed and convictions were handed down for a total of 84 offences. In addition, six other legal persons were dealt with by the prosecution for such crimes, but there was no conviction. We could conclude from this that the problem is not at the level of the threat of punishment, but that it is the detection of such acts and that it is more difficult to prove guilt. We should therefore work on effective prevention and prosecution of corruption, but not only on the lifting of penalties. Only raising the penalty at risk in our opinion will bring no significant change in this area. As far as these changes are concerned, it seems that the Ministry has put them into the proposal just because they have already been written. Given that the substance of the amendments to the Penal Code is essential elsewhere. The main solutions to the draft law relate mainly to improving the current regime when it comes to the most reprehensible offences which are not properly regulated in the current regulation. In the United Left, we support the special treatment of crimes in cases where the victims of these minors are also supported by the introduction of a new security measure to prohibit the approximation or communication with the victim and the establishment of a new crime of forced marriage or the establishment of a similar community. We have also tabled two amendments, as it seems to us that the proposed changes could be further improved, even when it comes to human trafficking. Both of the proposals included in the amendments are also supported by NGOs that have been alerting this issue for a long time, as well as organisations that assist victims of trade and are most familiar with the problems on the ground, with detailed information on the shortcomings of the provisions of the Penal Code, and have also repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Justice. As we heard on the Justice Committee, their proposals came across a deaf ear. The fact is, the number of victims of human trafficking is increasing from year to year. But not only globally, but also at European level and with Slovenia. The number of victims of sexual exploitation is increasing, many victims are doing poorly paid or illegal farm work and hard work in workshops and private households. According to the International Labour Organisation, more than 2.45 million victims, including most women and children, are expected to be victims. It is therefore a modern form of slavery, where people are treated as goods that can be bought and sold for forced labour, mostly in the sex industry, agriculture, undeclared and registered workshops and so on. All of these victims have only one thing in common, their lives being destroyed by exploitation and greed. This is why we have proposed with the amendment that an additional condition should be deleted from the criminal offence, namely that it is a matter of exploitation, because we believe that it is too much of a criminal offence and is actually an obstacle to the prosecution of a crime of trafficking in human beings. We also propose a provision to prosecute those who commit this crime out of negligence. The second amendment, however, refers to the offence of forcible marriage or the establishment of a similar community, by which we propose that adequate protection should also be established when it comes to the establishment of an unregistered same-sex community. As has already been said, we will support the amendment of the Penal Code in the United Left, and we hope that our amendments will also be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u43	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u44	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Penal Code is one of those rare systems of laws that do not change frequently or too often in our legislation. However, in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we believe that this time changes and additions are necessary in view of the new emerging forms of crime, which are certainly a new crime of stalking and, in particular, the extent and social harm of certain crimes. In the first place, let us point out the criminal acts of corruption, where the risk of imprisonment increases, as a result, the jurisdiction to try this crime is transferred to the district courts. The tightening of sanctions is certainly on the ground, given the extent of this crime, but we note that it is equally important to investigate this crime when we know that it usually happens between two persons, without witnesses and documentary evidence. The number of corruption offences investigated is therefore largely dependent on the use of the specific investigation methods used by the police or the NPU in their work. According to data on the prevalence of corruption in Slovenia, the investigation of this crime is significantly too small and we expect progress in this area as well. The bill introduces a new security measure: a ban on approaching or communicating with the victim. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we have repeatedly pointed out the inadequate legal arrangements for the protection of victims of domestic violence and the necessary legislative changes in the conditions and duration of the declaration of a security measure prohibiting approximation. The introduction of this security measure in the criminal code is necessary and we welcome it. However, we continue to point out that it is imperative that the law on police be amended as soon as possible, both in terms of conditions and in terms of the duration of the sentence of this security measure by the police. The duration of the measure over a few days does not necessarily provide the victim with the necessary security, and this is the aim of this security measure. We also assess, as appropriate, the change in criminal offences committed against minors who have signs of violence, for which a proposal from the injured party will no longer be required and will be prosecuted for official duties. We also assess, as appropriate, the solution to prosecute the crime of threat at the request of the injured person on an official basis rather than on a private complaint. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be supported by a proposal for amendments and additions to the Penal Code, while we expect the Government to intervene as soon as possible in the parliamentary procedure with the remaining amendments to the legislation to which we have pointed out and which, together with this law, will ensure effective protection of victims.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u45	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u46	As the minister said at the outset, it is really a marriage that is really sensitive to everyone. He is sensitive to those who are accused, sensitive to those who really need to get to the bottom of the police. He's sensitive to prosecutors, and at the same time, judges have a lot of responsibility. Therefore, it is vital that this law really be governed by government, not by a standard or non - systematic one. Therefore, with certain proposals that the government has foreseen in the law itself, or that some changes essentially build up and resolve a number of issues that have been left unanswered to date, we welcome them in this way. Of course, we have a problem, or we want to draw attention to two things. One is definitely human trafficking. Trafficking in human beings is a sensitive area, because in some ways the concept of trade is still on some very narrow belt and does not want to extend and define in any way much more detail what is actually happening today. If I'm more specific, if I quote the Ombudsman, who says, "It's about modern human trafficking, and the issue of trafficking in human beings is far more than just prostitution." The Ombudsman warns that these people are in fact violated by the right to dignity and personal freedom, but they are often unaware of this too, making it very difficult to prosecute such violations. Where do you really see that? If I'm actually more specific about where the problem really is. The problem is that today we know that when criminals are looking for a crime, they are primarily looking for it in physical inviolability or in this case sexual inviolability. It is about understanding concepts today, such as slavery, that slavery in construction, agriculture, textiles, and in investigating such cases in Slovenia may not be recognized by criminals in trafficking in human beings. But when it comes to cases like this, they're actually being persecuted like the use of labor. That's two different ideas. That's why we don't have this in the Penal Code. That is why we tabled an amendment on the committee, which we later withdrew, thinking that the ministry would prepare an improved amendment or an amendment, because in the context of the word "economy of people" appeared, and the minister was very clear at that time that such an amendment could not go any further, because it was actually an intervention in the area of economic initiative, and we are very quickly involved in criminalising economic activity. Since there has been no such improvement to date, we have reintroduced it and we are really pointing out the same problem, and this is that it is very clear that slavery or slavery is a similar relationship, thus giving the tools to criminals and law enforcement authorities who are pursuing such a crime in order to make it easier for them to do their job. Then there is another problem that we have pointed out, but there is a lack of regulation in cases of press prosecution, and this will be explained more clearly in the debate itself. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u47	The word is given by the Group of Modern Cent Parties, for her mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! We all kind of start and actually it's the Penal Code that protects the most fundamental values in society and at the same time protects the victims and victims of these acts. On the other hand, the law restricts the freedom of an individual, his conduct, and his conduct. That freedom that we somehow perceive as one of the greatest benefits of democracy, therefore these violations of the Penal Code must be carried out when they are necessary. However, if we somehow move away and look far away at what we are actually regulating in this penal code today, we will witness that we are trying to protect the most primal goodness of man, his freedom, his dignity and his personality, what we thought by introducing human rights protection, we have actually eliminated. We are increasingly witnessing that this individual, who has been given this freedom by the concept of the protection of human rights, views this freedom as absolute. Not realizing that, in fact, this right and freedom is limited to the rights of another. Human rights have sometimes been or have been created because the state has violated the rights of an individual, and today we are witnessing an increasing violation of human rights by man. And that is why these changes are necessary to protect the most vulnerable groups, because it is incomprehensible, at least for me and I think that for a large part of society, we are talking about trafficking in human beings, slavery, the exploitation of man by man and, of course, his dignity. It's also for me, and I think it's hard for us to talk about forced marriages. But the fact is, even in Slovenia, we are not immune to this. NGOs have pointed out that we know at least 14 such cases, and in fact there are many more when it comes to forced marriages as well as other forms having the same relationship between girls and boys. So it's about the kids. Domestic violence is also on the rise, so it is right that these crimes and threats that have been made, as well as crimes committed against minors, are not prosecuted for private action, but are prosecuted on a proposal. We also note that this is a high level of crime that is harmful and endangers our country. It is mainly economic crime, the banking sector, bribery, the exploitation of the fundamental economic rights of workers and, as has been said before, almost slavery. That is why we believe that it is right for these penalties to be lifted up and that this is also the way these acts are confused. Of course, partial decriminalisation of the issue of classified data is also important. Because a society that is not afraid to disclose information that is in the public interest, and this public interest is against the interest of protecting classified information, shows that it is a democratic society. Finally, let me say that the purpose of the amendment of the Penal Code is therefore a special and general prevention. This means that those who want to commit or do a crime should be punished, while those who want to do so should be deterred. In fact, this is how we confuse socially the most dangerous and also harmful crimes and practices. We support and are, of course, pleased in the Modern Change Centre Party, and we hope that these general preventions will be as many as possible and that such crimes will be as few as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u49	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! Today's session deals with three judicial laws. I must say, however, that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we regret that these laws do not constitute such substantive reforms that would in some way raise justice or justice to European level. This, however, has been pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party for many years, namely that we need judicial reform and that we need such reforms that will go towards improving the state of justice or the judiciary. However, I can say that we are pleased that the Minister of Justice has also listened to proposals on how to deal with the issues which I have pointed out as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party. Especially when we are talking about a crime of threat, where it is proposed to stop the prosecution of a private action and to introduce prosecution on the basis of a proposal by the injured party, which is a subset of prosecution under official duty. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have proposed, with an amendment to the Justice Committee, that this crime should also be prosecuted on an official basis. Unfortunately, however, the amendment was not voted on. However, I would like to point out that, years ago, I put forward an initiative to prosecute this crime on a proposal. It is undeniable that this is an extremely sensitive area, and this proposal nevertheless represents a positive shift. Domestic violence victims may persist in a violent relationship for months or even years because the partners — the perpetrators of violence do not hope to leave for their own safety, because of the safety of children, because of economic dependence, because of environmental pressures. When courage is finally gathered and taken a decisive step, of course, they rightly expect to receive support, assistance and confirmation on the way that what they have experienced is not right and that the condemnation is worth it. Support and measures are therefore needed to improve the situation of victims. We also welcome the introduction of a new crime of stalking, forced marriage or similar community. It also seems to us that there is a positive shift in the introduction of a new security measure banning the approximation or communication of the perpetrator of the crime by the victim of the crime or by its neighbours. This follows the protection of persons from violence and harassment. In view of the above, we will not oppose and support the proposed amendment of the Penal Code in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. However, we should continue to deal significantly more with those cases that would put an end to the backlog in order to provide a uniform case-law to ensure a fair trial of legal certainty and a fair state. However, we will certainly closely monitor the implementation of the new provisions of the Penal Code within the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group when they enter into force, particularly in terms of ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u51	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected and respected! The new Penal Code that we are considering brings a number of positive changes. First of all, I would mention the introduction of a partial exclusion of criminality in the event of the offence of issuing classified information under Article 260 of the Penal Code. In recent times, there have been several rebuttal cases of proceedings against journalists for the purpose of issuing classified information. The case of Delić has been highlighted in particular, and unfortunately our country is also exposed in the Council of Europe as a country with problems in protecting freedom of expression. That is why this area needs to be addressed as soon as possible. This issue was also addressed by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government in February. A decision was taken to propose to the Government to amend the Penal Code as soon as possible to protect journalists from prosecution for disclosure of classified information in cases where there is a public interest to disclose it. And that's how this novel works. In any event, the amendment introduced by this amendment of the Penal Code in the area of greater protection of so-called vulnerable groups in the event of threats and harassment and in cases of offences against minors and crimes of trafficking in human beings is positive. Hunting is defined as a new form of crime. Thus far, there has not been an adequate remedy for persecution against stalking, although it is a very sensitive subject, particularly in family and former family relations. This amendment of the Penal Code also increases the protection of victims of violent crimes in the event of harassment with a security measure banning access and communication, such as the prohibition of the use of electronic communications means, meaning also the prohibition of harassment through SMS messages, various communication applications and social networks. On the basis of the Istanbul Convention adopted, a new offence of forcible marriage or the establishment of a similar community that has not been defined so far is also introduced. Both NGOs and the Slovenian Institute for Social Protection warn that the problem of forced marriage and the sale of girls for marriage is also a concern in Slovenia. Finally, let me mention the proposals for regulation of the area of limitation and the area of punishment of corruption crimes, where there are also many anomalies in the legislation in force. The bill provides that the limitation of the execution of the sentence shall be suspended at a time when the convict is on the run or otherwise avoids the execution of the sentence. This novel therefore eliminates the anomalies we have witnessed in the Lip case when the sentence against the convict at the time of his escape is obsolete. More stringent punishment for corruption crimes is also being introduced, as we have major problems as a society in this area and the penalties in force are quite low. The scope of the criminal offence of tax evasion will also be regulated. Thus, the new crime will be committed when someone together over a period of one year, and thus with more secrecy, is able to conceal more than 50,000 euros. In the Group of Members, we advocate the fight against corruption and the regulation of other anomalies, which have proved to be through the application of a valid code in practice, so we will support the amendment of the Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u53	The word is given by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, for her mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much, President, again for your word. After considering the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, we are at the point when we continue to discuss and discuss another law with the Ministry of Justice. So it's a novel of the Penal Code. Every time we intervene in the Penal Code, we say that this is a very sensitive subject and that we must be held back in the introduction of new criminal standards. It's no different this time, either. The proposed solutions proposed by the competent ministry have reached a high degree of coordination among all stakeholders involved in or involved in inter-departmental coordination through the Institute of Public Debate. We will support the proposed amendment to the Penal Code in the Group of Social Democrats. We support strengthening the protection and protection of vulnerable groups, especially when it comes to threats and stalking. In fact, stalking is defined as a new form of crime. Special attention shall be paid to the protection of minors and to criminal offences against minors and in cases of trafficking in human beings. Social Democrats support any intervention in the code, which means greater protection for victims of violent crimes, especially in the event of harassment. This is a security measure banning approximation and communication. It is also proposed to introduce prosecution on the basis of a proposal from the injured party. This is a form of prosecution under an official obligation, which will facilitate the conditions for initiating prosecution. We invited representatives of the Society to the Social Democrats' Group. She presented to us the issue of forced marriages that happen to us in front of our eyes. According to the information presented by the representative of the Society, the key is also on the parent’s working body, and more than 300 minors are mainly forced into such a relationship by parents. This is the data of NGOs dealing with such sad stories of young girls and we can quite believe that this is a serious and difficult-to-trace crime. That is why we also support the Social Democrats to register a new crime in the Code. This is the forced conclusion of a marriage or the establishment of a similar community. Let us hope that this measure will prevent any new forced marriage. But we fear that this is already a very sophisticated action that happens quietly and very quickly. In addition to new criminal offences, the Code brings some amendments and supplements to the provisions currently in force. However, these changes are necessary because they are found in practice to be anomalies. In fact, it is about individuals who are skilled in law enforcement. It is therefore proposed that the penalty and penalty claims be suspended in the event of escape and other means of evading the penalty. There are also stricter penalties for corruption offences, both in the course of the sentence and in the case of a mandatory fine. It cannot be overlooked that we are also interfering with the law in article 260, which speaks of the crime of issuing classified information. This article refers to journalistic work and to some media cases. The new third paragraph of Article 26 of the new Code provides that a person who, while fulfilling the signs of a criminal offence of issuing classified information, is not penalised if it is a secret information which reveals an unlawful interference in human rights and fundamental freedoms, other constitutional or legal rights, and even if it is data on the serious abuses of authority or powers or other serious irregularities in the exercise of authority, and the act is not done out of favour and does not endanger the lives of people. Nor should we endanger the security and legally protected interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Social Democrats condemn all violence, especially violence against youth, women, the elderly and all other vulnerable groups. Infringers or perpetrators of violence against the above-mentioned groups must be convicted as quickly as possible in judicial proceedings, punished by the legal provisions and deprived of the possibility of violence by means of modern electronic devices. We cannot agree that these victims of violent acts will continue to be victims. As I have already announced, the Social Democrats will support the proposal of the amended Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u55	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the United Left Group and the amendment of the Alliance Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you. With the amendment in the United Left, we propose that the word 'exploitation' be deleted in Article 113 of the Penal Code, which defines the crime of trafficking in human beings. In addition, we propose that it be determined that this crime can also be committed out of negligence. Why? The deletion of the word "exploitation" is proposed because, in our view, the legal sign for exploitation is a significant violation of the criminality field and is actually an obstacle to the prosecution of the crime of trafficking in human beings. This is also pointed out by non-governmental organisations that face such cases daily and in preparing for prosecution of such acts, in fact, they run into this particular problem. It is unacceptable that the perpetrators of a crime of trafficking in human beings are eventually forgiven because they are not persecuted for the fact that, in addition to an existing or evidentiary scheme, it was not possible to prove a particular purpose, namely that exploitation. If so, it would be far more appropriate that the purpose of exploitation is a specific aggravating circumstance that results in a higher penalty. In addition, we propose to add this new sixth paragraph, which provides that a possible offence is also a matter of negligence. Non-governmental organisations have also for a long time drawn attention to the lack of criminal provisions relating to such serious interference with human rights and freedoms. Since trafficking in human beings is intolerable and unacceptable, in our view it would be necessary to lay down penalties even in cases where the act is committed out of negligence. While the government indicated in the proposal that it did not seem appropriate for it to be determined that this crime could also be committed out of negligence, we do not see any real argument for it. The Penal Code lays down restrictions on negligence, which can only be punishable if the law so provides. In so doing, he states that the offence was committed out of negligence if the perpetrator did not act with due diligence, although he was aware that he could commit an act, but he thought it would not happen or that it would be possible to prevent it – conscious negligence, or if he did not realize that he could commit an act, he should, under the circumstances and his personal characteristics, be aware of it. So, unconscious negligence. In addition, the Penal Code provides that the court shall grant the offender who committed the offence of negligence a penalty if the consequences of the act of the offender do not cause so much harm in such a case that the punishment would obviously not be justified. We therefore have some case law that protects such cases, so that we have this protector with regard to this negligence and that appropriate standards are also established on the basis of this practice, which lays down a set of circumstances from which it will be possible to conclude whether it was negligence or not. For this reason, we propose that this possibility of negligence be introduced in such serious crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, we tabled an amendment for a simple reason, because I think that when we talk about the Penal Code in the National Assembly, we should talk very, very loudly when it comes to the elements of slavery. In particular, as I said in the introduction, because sometimes very quickly we are satisfied with an expression that very narrowly defines certain crimes, and in fact we are faced with certain other crimes when it is difficult to prove in the process the elements of the crime and, on the other hand, because of the fact that the criminal offence is not often pursued or even less recognised. It is hard to believe – all of you remember the latest recordings during the worst economic crisis, when construction companies failed after each other, we watched the sad footage of workers sitting, not getting paid, we listened to the tragic stories of individuals coming to work with some promises, and eventually they were left alone, without money and the possibility of seeking protection. We looked at something similar a few months ago what happened to workers when they went to Germany to work, based on our Slovenian companies, who were only intermediaries for such jobs, and in the end it almost turned out as if we were even cooperating and helping with these crimes of intervention and also, we can say, slave forms of work. It is therefore more than clear that with this amendment we have wanted to make it very clear that there are several forms of slavery, not only what we are most familiar with in the last ten, fifteen years, when we are speaking frankly and talking, but, finally, we have NGOs that are very active in this area when we are talking about prostitution. Nothing new. More. We have even talked in Parliament about the legalisation of prostitution and the like. However, what is important to us is that we very clearly define — and today this is a lack within the Penal Code — if we are talking about sexual abuse of persons, forced labor or slavery services similar to relationships, service or removal of organs. Thus, I am talking about a very wide range of forms of slavery and the consequences of this slavery, which would allow law enforcement authorities to obtain a tool so that they can thoroughly search for it, find it, and, finally, act on certain acts under the law. Of course, the problem arises when we start talking about whether we have all the elements to write this down so that it will end up costing. The Minister was very clear on the committee, such an amendment as we have proposed, and we have also withdrawn it, somehow he would not have passed some serious judgment and would even continue to criminalise an act that is legitimate today and we want to encourage him in some way. He kind of put it that way; that last part is my addition. However, our intention was to be honest that within this article the term "slavery" is defined not to limit itself to prostitution and all the forms that revolve around it. But it is also all those forms that, unfortunately, I point out, regrettably, many people who are in this relationship are no longer aware that there is almost one person in some slave - owned relationship. Finally, before I conclude, I will only touch to conclude a little more pleasantly, in the presentation of colleague Bojana Muršič, her statement was that the weddings were "fast and quiet", so she expressed herself somehow. I have to say, I've reported quite a few people in our country, yet none of them are silent and no secret. It was all happening in public and in front of the officials, so I hope that there's really no quiet and hidden wedding going on. The problem she probably wanted to point out was that there were agreements going on in the background, forced into such weddings, and of course that was problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice has asked for the floor. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much. First of all, with regard to the amendment proposed by the United Left regarding the use of the additive. As for the second job, the fine, we've already accepted it on the board. As far as exploitation is concerned, that's right. One key element of the crime of trafficking in human beings is exploitation, a legal sign of exploitation. In all the conventions, in the Council of Europe Convention in Article 4, a.k.a., in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2011 on the prevention of trafficking in human beings, in the United Nations Conventions relating to trafficking in human beings, exploitation is a fundamental element of this crime. This does not mean that other acts which are linked to similar elements do not have any signs of exploitation are not criminal. But we're not talking about trafficking in human beings. That is why we cannot accept this amendment, because we would elicit the very notion of a crime of trafficking in human beings, and we would be rare, if not the only one, well, now I am referring to it, but in fact this crime would no longer be consistent with international acts, and this would entail a host of problems, even in terms of cooperation and so on. However, the fact that this element makes this crime extremely difficult to prove. I agree with that and we understand non-governmental organisations here, but it is also necessary to know that some other crimes cover these elements. As far as the next element of your proposal is concerned, and this is the incrimination of a crime through negligence. We have not decided on this, but there have been considerable debates in the drafting of the law. In principle, other authorities, such as the prosecution, objected. I would also like to say that analysis has also been carried out, extremely few countries, but there are, and this crime is also criminalized by negligence. This is an extremely widespread cycle of criminality, and you can come into a situation where you can incriminate a taxi driver who didn't know he was transporting, I don't know, a prostitute in a subordinate relationship, but he's obviously supposed to know. It's a decision of society, whether it incriminates it or not. In our view, we have not come this far yet, but I must say that we have come very close to this precisely for the purpose and to listen to civil society's arguments to the greatest extent possible. Mr Member, you said that civil society said that the Ministry of Justice had come across deaf ears about this. They didn't say that because it's not true. They said they were pleased that progress had taken place, but progress was not what they wanted. I would like to point out that, in our view, the amendment in Article 16, paragraph 4, continues to increase in a proportionate way the incrimination, but it does not go into negligence, by extending incrimination to victims' users, victims' users, victims' services, which has not previously been criminalised. Anyone who knows that a person is a victim of trafficking uses its services. By the way, behavior, slander may also be possible. As far as the amendment of the Alliance is concerned, the following: We agree, and there was some discussion on the committee itself about the well-intention of this amendment. We do not support it because, in the context in which it is proposed, the article in which it is proposed could have even the opposite effect at this point in our opinion. If you clearly incriminate a particular form of slavery or a similar relationship, you admit that it has not now been criminalized. However, the practice is currently being developed that, through slavery, similar relationships, service, forced labour already enshrined in the law itself, the first procedures in this area are already being carried out, and certainly the applicant's positive purpose should be criminalized not through trafficking in human beings, but through appropriate different incrimination in the section on crimes against labour and social security. This one's not open now. The only thing I can say is that we'll get back to that when the Penal Code is back in the National Assembly. I'd like to add something else. The amendment, which is now being presented, is largely covered by article 112, which is also not open, but I would like to read: "Who by violating another into a slave or similar relationship......" [[…]] It's already written. In other words, your warning to the problem is a legitimate reminder of the problem of implementation, enforcement of this law in practice and sufficient attention by the authorities of detection and prosecution and less possible criminal proceedings. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Chairman. Minister, you weren't in the hall before when I was explaining how this amendment came about, so it might seem a little unconstitutional now, but it's right that you know. We have tabled this amendment primarily because we hope that the Ministry will find an appropriate solution in the next amendment. With this, we really wanted to open this debate today in the plenary session, because it is an important issue after our understanding. Far from forcing and knowing that what is written and must be written, it must be in such a way that it is clear and clear to all others who will apply the law in order to be able to carry it out to the end. However, it is necessary to follow and also take into account all the conventions already adopted that speak on these issues. That's what this is about. Today to refer to what we already have and so forth, that's one thing. And the other is how to make the matter better, to make it work. Finally, I would only like to say so much because I failed or somehow forgot earlier, and I am glad that in the Penal Code, as regards the issue of the lack of regulation of the prosecution of journalists, you have established that, given that we have then pointed to this issue and that you have kept your word and have clearly defined this matter in this law, that we know today what we are talking about and when to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 16 or the amendments to Article 16? No, no, no. Then I conclude this debate. We are moving on to Article 17 or I am putting Article 17 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Here you are, the initiator of the amendment, Dr. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The amendment proposes that when defining a new crime, it be said that the marriage is forced or that a similar community is established, that it also takes into account the compulsory establishment of an unregistered same-sex partnership and that the definition of the crime is more clearly defined. In view of the fact that in Slovenia, in this reference in the National Assembly, we have adopted a amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which, on the basis of the decisions and findings of the Constitutional Court, is in fact equalising the same and diversified partnerships, we believe that this solution, which is currently in force in this law, is non-discriminatory because it misses this very part, is said to be an unregistered same-sex partnership, and we believe that such cases may also occur. It is said that in the Penal Code itself we will have a hole that does not actually protect any such forms of forced marriage or similar union. Thus, with the amendment we are only trying to follow the principle to which we have committed ourselves, it is said in some broad social emancipation, and also in criminal law, I think it is necessary to reflect this in full and to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which will in some way say whether we will still decide on this at the referendum or not, whether this amendment to the Law on Marriage will actually take effect and be implemented. I suggest that this amendment corrects this manna at this time, as far as such possible connections are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u65	Dr. Vatovec, thank you very much. Is there any other desire for discussion? Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u66	Just for a little while. I would like to say that the amendment adopted by the Committee on Justice has adequately resolved this issue in our conduct. When it got better and similar communities were adopted, we avoided the danger of what kind of community will be referred to below. Certainly, we believe that the intention of the amendment's amendment has already been reached with the amendment adopted by the committee on the issue of criminality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u68	However, there is another problem with this solution, which is now adopted by amendments to the Committee, is that it travels to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and the Law on Partnerships, which exceptionally excludes unregistered same-sex partnerships.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 17 or the amendment? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I conclude this debate. We are moving on to Article 32 or I am putting Article 32 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to the debate. Would you like to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment which is of a nominal nature and is bound by Article 135 of the Penal Code, which speaks of a crime of threat. To know why it is so important that we today discuss this Article 135, let me go back a little bit to history. It was Pahor's government that went completely unwisely in 2009 and in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend this article, and today, thank God, we are all correcting this mistake together. Although we wanted to cut it even more rigorously in this article, we agree that this solution may be extremely good and useful at a given time, if not the best. It is a matter of putting an end to the prosecution of a private action in the event of a criminal offence. So what she did in 135th Article 2009 is what the Pahor government did. This meant that the victim was the only one who could report the perpetrator, so it's called some kind of threat that was made. Only the victim could have done it. But if we look at it psychologically, we can see it's a big problem. First, the victim needs to clean up and accept that a perpetrator, either a partner in the family or anyone else, threatens to commit such an act on his own. That is why we have argued all the time, and I myself have asked a number of questions on this subject or have also made a concrete suggestion that this Article 135 of the Penal Code should be amended and that persecution should be imposed on the basis of the proposal of the injured person or that it should also be pursued under official duty. This amendment, as it is said, was not adopted on the Committee on Justice where we discussed amendments to the Penal Code, but this solution is also better than what happened in 2009, which is why we welcome it. Let me also say that with regard to the amendments and additions to the Penal Code, when we go into any changes to any article relating to the Penal Code, we must be very careful. We must be very careful and take such changes into account so that no unexpected things can happen that we may later regret. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the amendments to the new Penal Code, but we will closely monitor them, while at the same time we hope that the Minister will listen to some of our other solutions, not exclusively related to this legislation that we are considering today, but more broadly. In particular, as regards the overall reform of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment, article? No, no, no. Thank you very much. If he doesn't want to, then I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which is before you today, is the widest novel in this package that we are considering today. These are amendments to the law governing the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which has not been amended for a long time. At that time, Slovenia received a number of recommendations from international committees and competent bodies for the protection of human rights, a ban on the torture of inhumane and degrading conduct, as well as recommendations by the Ombudsman on a case-by-case basis in the field of the enforcement of criminal sanctions. All of these recommendations we have tried to apply as much as possible and in this part of the novel important in our opinion strengthens the legal protection of convicts, while at the same time removing administrative obstacles and rationalising the procedures for the execution of certain tasks of judicial officers or many tasks of judicial officers and professional staff. We are counting, therefore, on the fact that, in addition to ensuring greater legal certainty and humanity in the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the Ombudsman and non-governmental organisations comply with international standards and recommendations. At the same time, we debirocratise certain procedures of the staff carrying out these tasks. The proposal also addresses the problems of avoiding the cessation of a prison sentence for health reasons and significantly simplifies the procedures for the exchange of information between the courts and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. That's how much I'd like to start with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Committee on Justice is at its 9th regular session. Seven. 2015 examined the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Minister of Justice, in his opening remarks, said that the proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions constituted a deliberate intervention in the regulatory regulation of the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions and exacerbated the conditions for delaying the execution of sentences, strengthening the legal certainty of convicts, while also removing administrative obstacles and rationalising the procedures for the execution of certain judicial duties. The proposal also addresses the problems of avoiding prison sentences for health reasons, so that the postponement is only possible in the event of hospital treatment. The more effective enforcement of criminal sanctions is also intended to propose a new regulatory regime for electronic exchange of information between courts and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The European Court of Human Rights in its annual reports, as well as the Ombudsman, drew attention to the effective legal protection of the rights of convicts in cases of complaints due to inadequate housing conditions. He further explained that the envisaged legal solutions in certain segments, for example in the process of transferring convicts from one institution to another, in the context of professional decisions within the framework of the powers and tasks of judicial officers who do not have the legal character of the case, in the formulation of the personal plan of the convicted person, constitute a rationalisation of the operations of employees in the prison system, which also offers an opportunity for a more in-depth commitment to professional work in the treatment and resocialisation of convicts when carrying out certain tasks. In its introduction, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that an important part of the comments, in particular those to the individual articles, had been taken into account in the amendment of the coalition, but also pointed out a part of the comments which, despite explanations by the applicant, required an appropriate response. In the context of its general comments, it highlighted the legal system’s problem of an approach which, in the provisions governing the lodging of complaints against decisions issued in the context of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, repetitively repeats certain provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. From a legal point of view, it also drew attention to the fact that the scope of the amendments exceeds one third of the articles of the basic law, which instead of amending it would imply the drafting of a new law, and to the inadequate amendment of several articles of the applicable law by one appearing in several places of the bill. In its proposal, the State Council Commission supported the bill. The discussion was mainly about the proposed solutions contained in the proposal for a law and the amendments tabled in each article. There was some opposition by some discussers regarding the provision of Article 9 of the bill restricting the right to postpone the execution of a prison sentence for health reasons. They proposed deleting it and explained that this proposal followed the opinion of the ZPS, taking into account also the opinion of the Supreme Public Prosecutor, the Ombudsman, the Bar Association and the Institute of Criminal Sciences at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor, which in its opinions points out the creation of a legal void and the emergence of any additional unnecessary health consequences that may also be financial in nature. In this regard, a member of the Committee also cited the contribution of Hink Jenul, in which the latter noted, inter alia, that the proposed regime did not provide adequate legal status and protection for convicts with health problems of such nature as to prevent the occurrence or execution of a prison sentence. Others welcomed the proposed solutions to the bill and stressed that they meant faster, more efficient and more economic measures. They also explained that, as a result of violations by convicts of a more effective remedy in cases of prison overcrowding, the European Court of Human Rights also pointed out in its judgments against Slovenia and in the 19th Annual Report of the Ombudsman. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted amendments to the SMC, DeSUS and SD groups and did not accept the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 9 and the amendments to Article 10 of the SDS Group and the Joint Left to Article 2. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also drafted and adopted the amendment to 86. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u76	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today's amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions are quite numerous, but they do not interfere with the concept of the law itself. In most cases, they refer to the correction of shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation of the law so far and to the shortcomings raised by the European Court of Human Rights. These shortcomings relate mainly to the execution of a prison sentence. It is this form of enforcement of criminal sanctions that has been dealt with most frequently in the European Court of Human Rights. Complaints made to the European Court of Human Rights referred in most cases to inadequate spatial conditions in individual Slovenian prisons. Statistics show that in recent years the number of prisoners has increased, by 5.7% last year compared to the year before, while the spatial conditions of prisons or prisons have not been followed by such an increased inflow. In particular, in the case of shorter sentences, that is to say, up to two years in prison, alternative forms of prison sentences should be promoted as much as possible and the alternative forms of prison sentences should be allowed to be allowed. This is particularly true of those forms that contribute to the resocialisation of the perpetrator to the greatest extent, while not burdening the state budget excessively. Here we refer in particular to the measure of replacing prison sentences with work for the general benefit. Courts shall decide on such an alternative way of enforcing shorter sentences. We believe that this form of execution of the sentence has been used too few times. Most often the reason is that there are not enough executive organisations. In this area, we also call on the local self-governing communities to take greater action in this area. By virtue of the rules in force, the Regulations on the execution of works in general are required to prepare and communicate to social work centres a set of works, as well as a list of organisations where it is possible to carry out work for the general benefit. We can see that the self-governing local communities in this area are not the most active. One of the areas where there is a relatively untapped potential for the overall benefit of the work is the regulation of public areas and parks in individual local communities. Legal solutions also interfere with the suspension of the prison sentence for health reasons where the solutions proposed prevent the abuse of this institution. These abuses have often taken place in practice so far. Legal solutions must prevent the execution of the date of the sentence for health reasons. Finally, every prison or detention facility has its own medical care service, which, after being examined by the convict, will be able to judge whether the prisoner is medically fit to pass a prison sentence. The proposed legal solutions will continue to allow the suspension or suspension of prison sentences for those who have been sick before and during the sentence. The solutions provided by the bill improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of criminal sanctions and also improve the measures available to the State to ensure an important objective pursued by this law, namely the resocialisation of perpetrators of crimes. For this reason, Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u78	Vice President, thank you for your word. The new Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions aims to rationalise procedures and reduce the administrative burden on employees in prison and correctional institutions, including certain other new regulations, as well as to increase the scope of professional work with convicts and minors and to improve the quality of their treatment with a view to their resocialisation. Cooperation between the professional staff of the institution and the competent centres for social work is under review, which is important for the integrated treatment of convicts during the stay of sentences and for the planning of social inclusion on and after leave. To this end, the provisions on prison at the end of the week and on work for the general benefit shall also be new. With regard to work, the general benefit of the novel is to rationalise costs and balance the regime of the relationship between persons who are assigned to work in general benefit under penal law and those who perform work in general benefit under general labour rules. The new law also responds to the consequences of recent convictions at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which concerned the situation in certain institutions for the cessation of sentences and the court’s finding that the convicted person does not have sufficient legal protection in the event of prison overcrowding. In accordance with Article 83 of the Act, a convict who considers that he is subjected to torture or other forms of prohibited inhuman or degrading treatment will request judicial protection, with the amendment of the Act laying down further procedures for the application for judicial protection, thereby significantly increasing its effectiveness. By regulating those areas in the amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the principle of legal certainty and the principle of economics and speed in administrative proceedings shall be applied. The Novela also contains provisions that pursue greater effectiveness in the enforcement of judicial decisions when specific circumstances indicate the risk of escape or the avoidance of a prison sentence. In such cases, the Court will be in a position to order the conviction of a convicted person under the jurisdiction of the judgment before it becomes enforceable. The new law further reduces the risk of misuse of financial assistance, which some convicts have received unjustifiably since the commencement of the prison sentence; strengthens the legal basis for collecting and processing data on permitted convict correspondents; gives the possibility that convicted persons who are above-average workers will be rewarded with a special cash prize; amends the provisions on disciplinary proceedings against convicts, so as to take into account the rules of European prison rules; introduces a new disciplinary sanction against convicts – a written warning; and amends the doctor’s role in the execution of the female disciplinary penalty. In this case, the doctor will no longer decide whether the execution of this sentence would endanger the convict’s medical condition, but will check the convict’s medical condition daily. The proposed amendment of the law, however, replaces the medical reason for the suspension of the sentence on the grounds that the stay is permissible only for the purpose of hospital treatment of the convict. That regulation will simplify the decision-making process of deferral, while at the same time it will not affect in any way the right of the convicted person to adequate health care, since health care in institutions for the cessation of prison sentences is provided by the health homes in which the institution operates. The note also contains clearer provisions of the organisation of the Republic of Slovenia Criminal Sanctions Administration and is a necessary basis for planning and implementing the reorganisation of the prison system, a clearer definition and regulatory regulation of the status of instructors and other technical and technical workers in the prison system, thereby enhancing its effectiveness as a whole. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we consider that the amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions are a step towards a more rational and efficient administrative procedure in the context of the enforcement of criminal sanctions and improving the legal and social security of convicts, while at the same time contributing to a more effective enforcement of criminal judgments, which is why we will support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u80	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! The law before us certainly brings some improvements, but there is one problem with this law, which is very principled in nature and which we often combine in law in one sentence: whether the goal devotes resources. The law is due to the fact that he failed at this point at the time of his creation, according to the Ministry. It is now written in the same way that law always teaches that things must not be done, that they are written on a particular case or person. What's this all about? Let me help myself with a well-known and respected lawyer who is on the opposite side of the political side so as not to comment on who is protecting someone, or on similar wits, as they often do when dealing with a fundamental problem and a mistake that is made in a given case. Last month, a longer debate was published in Legal Practice on Mr Hinko Jenul, High Prosecutor and Councillor at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, drawing attention to the non-life solution in the proposal. Indeed, the substantial tightening of conditions, as envisaged, regardless of the fact that it was then adopted with an amendment in some small part of a favorite article, is legally questionable from the point of view of what I was talking about at the outset: whether the objective really devotes resources. Who's she pointing at? It is precisely one case; it is a case where Mr Bavčar is always known to be delayed for medical reasons to leave for the start of the sentence. As a result, Mr Hinko Jenull used this law in legal practice and for this controversial article as an expression of lex Bavčar. However, it points not to the error in this case and to the legal inadmissibility of the solution offered by the Government, which is now advocated by the ruling coalition, but to the list of who has made comments. Important comments were made by the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ombudsman, the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia and also the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. They all argued that the current regulation in the law was appropriate, in existing legislation, and that therefore there was no need for an amendment in this part and that it was a drastic unnecessary aggravation which could cause a number of serious consequences, with a response based on how Hinko Jenul sums up the proposal by the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, was unacceptable. If I'm quoting. The Minister's position in response to the lawyer's comment that the proposed stricter intervention is currently established in the social reality in the Republic of Slovenia, which requires a normative intervention, is inadequate in this case. For he speaks – I quote – "the strict guarantee of this place is unfortunately not in place". And then Mr Jenull objected with the answer that, if anywhere, there must be a safeguards approach, but, yes, it is precisely in deciding on the rights and obligations associated with human health, especially in the categories subject to coercive measures, which undoubtedly applies to convicts. Similarly, he has concerns about the Minister's response to the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. If it is just a matter of reacting to certain anomalies, and this is what the institute is doing, it is a completely wrong solution, or it is so exacerbated that it is virtually unattainable. Problems should be solved where they are. This is a fundamental thought that Mr Hinko Jenull is referring to this law and that we will not support in the SDS of the law, unless our amendment is adopted, then we will reconsider our decision. For once again we propose to maintain the current regime and not face a situation that is not. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And sometimes it's not human. For even now, he is going to prison or is imprisoned by someone who is not allowed to do so by a practical medical condition. At least one case is known when someone in prison is so senile that they lose everything in time. And that it is a man who wanted to reveal one part of the political and economic banking backgrounds also associated with the former President, Mr Kučan, is just a coincidence. Let him believe in such coincidences. Before the law, ladies and gentlemen, we must all be equal and the laws must be human and enforceable.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions brings a number of news. The amendment was mainly made by the proposer for warnings of violations of the rights of convicts, which was also pointed out by the European Court of Human Rights in its judgments against Slovenia. Amendments and additions to the law also follow the warnings of the Ombudsman and follow the recommendations of administrative and labour inspection. The novelty brings news about the so-called weekend prison, which will prevent the abuse of this more favourable form of prison sentence, and also ensure greater legal security for convicts, remove a number of administrative obstacles and rationalise the implementation of certain tasks of judicial officers. A very important novelty also brings novelties with regard to the replacement of prison sentences with work for the general benefit. Newly, inter alia, the scope and types of labour costs are determined for the general benefit of the budget and the part and type of costs charged to convicts who have been allowed to carry out such a sentence. This includes, inter alia, a more constitutionally balanced regulation of the relationship between persons who are employed in the general interest of criminal law and those who carry out such work under the general labour rules. An anomaly of the current regime regarding the medical reason for the decision to stay in prison shall also be removed. There has been a great deal of potential abuse of this institute, which we may have witnessed in some media cases. Therefore, after a new postponement, it will only be allowed because of hospital treatment of the convicted person, but of course the sentence can be suspended later on due to the convict’s illness, injury and similar reasons other than hospital treatment. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we particularly welcome the arrangements in the area of social care and health care for the elderly at the time of the end of the prison sentence, since older convicts, especially chronic patients, sometimes need medical care and help in meeting basic needs. Prisons are not spatially adapted to convicts with such problems, and the Ombudsman has already pointed out that, in accordance with the June 2013 judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the obligation of the State to ensure adequate conditions for closed persons with special needs is an obligation. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are particularly pleased that, in accordance with the provision of the new second paragraph of Article 60, these convicts can now stay in the adapted premises or in the department of one of the institutions. Finally, let me mention another positive change concerning the elderly and the weaker convicts. With the amendment of Article 82 of the current law, a provision shall be added to the grounds for the termination of the sentence that a convicted person may be suspended from prison if, without foreign assistance, he is unable to carry out at least one of the basic necessities of life in accordance with the law governing disability and pension insurance and cannot be granted such assistance by the institution. Since the law brings many improvements to the law now in force, Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u84	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The amended Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions will be supported by the Social Democrats. In the introduction and in the assessment of the situation, the applicant described in detail, outlined the situation and highlighted some of the key elements on the basis of which intervention into this law is necessary. We agree with the Social Democrats' assessment of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that, due to changes and additions to such a large number of articles, it might be more useful to prepare a new law. We understand, however, that this would carry much more work, coordination and that there is probably more discussion about other articles of the law, which are still closed, which must be addressed in the future. The Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions therefore covers the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions by empowering the State to directly intervene in the individual and his or her human rights and fundamental freedoms. Certainly this is also a legal matter which shows that there is a need for considerable caution and reflection in the adoption of such legislation. One of the major changes is the postponement of the disease penalty. Here it is not possible to close your eyes that this is also related to some more receptive cases of avoiding the occurrence of a sentence. We note that too often a number of marriages have been made, not only in this case, but elsewhere, referring to an individual or from individual cases. We are also aware that all derogations and behaviours cannot be anticipated in advance, so sometimes it is unfortunately wrong to assume that cases are handled on the basis of individual derogations or on a case-by-case basis. The amendments, which also relate to the suspension procedures for convicts who are unable to stop, are, of course, an important part of this law. A department is being set up to accommodate convicts who need help and care in their day-to-day tasks. In view of the desire of a greater number of convicts to work with private employers during the remainder of their sentences, this law also regulates the way in which they are paid. Social Democrats are thus in agreement with the estimates that, in an integrated manner, this bill seeks to improve the situation of prisoners and also those who work in these institutions, something that needs to be adopted and also regulated. That is why we want the proposed legal solutions to bring positive results. Of course, not only are we Social Democrats, but we all want this law to be used as few times as possible or to solve as few social consequences and actions as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There has been a lot of talk about the need to change the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions. The lack of restraint is thus pointed out by the Ombudsman, and in some ways also by the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, where prisoners have already sued Slovenia on numerous occasions for disturbing situations and have been successful in the action. Amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions were thus expected, and there is no way that problems relating to the enforcement of criminal sanctions will be resolved. The changes will thus not solve the problem of overcrowding of Slovenian prisons, nor will the human resources and financial hardships of institutions to end prison sentences. Although a few movements have been seen recently with regard to the resolution of the human resources problem, they are far from enough. All Slovenian prisons face virtually identical problems: human resources malnutrition and overemployment. For example, 772 people were imprisoned in Slovenian prisons 20 years ago and 855 public servants were taken care of, for example, 1,511 persons were imprisoned last year and 832 employees were taken care of. The average employment rate of Slovenian prisons is 117%. According to the Director of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, at least 12 judicial officers, 10 professional workers and three other profiles would be needed for the normal functioning of prisons without delay; two lawyers and one health worker. This year, they are already short 600 000 euros for the salaries of employees alone. Of course, with the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, we cannot solve all of this, but we certainly hope that the Government will take this issue into account when preparing budgets for 2016 and 2017. Although we will support the bill in the United Left, we note the need to end the harmful austerity policies that harm both people and the economy and are the general mantra of this government. And we note the need to stop saving policies in this very sensitive area as well. If we do not provide the necessary personnel and resources for the functioning of prisons, the situation will not improve. The number of warnings by the Ombudsman and the judgments before the European Court of Human Rights will remain unchanged. In the United Left, we have also tabled amendments concerning the elimination of discrimination against same-sex couples. In the four articles relating to immediate family members and individual rights belonging to prisoners, we propose that unregistered same-sex couples be taken into account, since there is no reasonable reason for them to be excluded from the decisions. We are convinced that this area should also be regulated for an interim period, i.e. for a period until the amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations are in force, which equates diversified and same-sex couples with respect to all rights and duties. The Constitutional Court has not yet taken its decision on the admissibility of the referendum nor is it possible to foresee when the decision will be taken and not when the amendment will be definitively implemented, so it is also necessary to ensure equal rights for the same-sex partners during this interim period. We expect the amendments to be adopted because there is no valid reason against them. In the two judgments, the Constitutional Court made it clear that the non-legislative community and the unregistered same-sex marriage are essentially the same and that the distinction based on sexual orientation is unacceptable. Given the majority of the coalition's support for the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, these amendments should also be supported. If we do not ensure consistently that no new discriminatory provisions are adopted in sectoral laws, the number of laws which contain unacceptable discrimination from more than 70 will increase to more than 80 by those who have also been fully aligned in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the amendments tabled on 8 July 2015. So we will discuss Articles 2, 9, 10, 19 and 38. Since the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 9 under Article 2 and Article 19 and Article 38, we will discuss them together. However, since the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 9 is linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 10, we will also discuss these two amendments together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 2, 9, 10, 19 and 38 and the four amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Parties to this article. Who wants to discuss it? Please sign up. Here you go, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much. As I have already said in the conclusion of the presentation of the Group's position, we have tabled these four amendments and they are also similar to each other for this very simple reason to follow the changes that have already taken place or will soon take place in our legal order and, in short, as a member of the family, they also add the person with whom the person subject to criminal sanctions lives in an unregistered same-sex partnership. I think that, regardless of when and how the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations will be adopted, we must follow these principles and take into account the constitutionality found in discrimination against same-sex couples in all aspects. With the amendments to this law, we also introduce this here and in some ways try to equalize the rights of such communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much. In the context of the discussions that have been held so far and the amendments that we are discussing, I have one question for the Minister. In fact, the SD representative said it was a reaction to the current situation and so on. A very simple question, Minister: Would this marriage be on the table if Igor Bavčar were not sick? It's a very simple question. In fact, I am sure that you gave a law to a person, i.e. Igor Bavčar, at the Ministry, and after many of the checks that you introduced, the court and everyone else, with expert opinions, we know that he did not go to the Age because he was operated on the heart, and we know that he did not therefore avoid prison. He wasn't avoiding it, but the media created it. This evading was created by a court which issued those orders which the police, of course, made in some wise way possible, so that he could remain on treatment. So now we are considering some law instead of having other things ahead of us that would go in the direction of reforming the judicial system. So we have a law before us that we can call lex specialis Bavčar, because that's what Attorney General Jenull calls him. On the other hand, in two years, I think it's been 20 years since Sandi Grubelič stepped out of prison. And Sandy Grubelič has been carrying confirmations that he's sick for almost 20 years. But the judiciary believes him? He's the one the judiciary trusts. But to someone who writes Igor Bavčar, who is facing this country – otherwise you can't tell him, but whatever he did then, I don't care, I was his co-worker at the most difficult moments of creating this country – and this is, of course, "lex specialis". Here, however, the law must be passed in order to get him to prison as soon as possible. Minister, you're doing a commercial; cheap advertising is that, and dishonest advertising is that, for you, dishonorable advertising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you very much. First of all, the amendments we have on the table. The United Left, Dr. Vatovec, and I believe that that law will be passed and enforced, indeed. Because if it doesn't, we can't solve it that way. We have met with representatives of civil society who have carried out a very good legal analysis of how many laws such and different family relationships are defined and should be changed if we do not solve this systematically. These regulations are huge. We do not want them to change partisanly because we are changing them here, but in the CAP it remains as it is, in the CAP it remains as it is. If it doesn't work out differently, we'll just do it, but we do, and I believe that the law will be enforced. However, if it does not, for the record, I say that I will commit myself to changing the laws that are within the competence of the Ministry of Justice for once in the package only with regard to those provisions. However, these laws are enormous, since almost every procedural and material provision in one way or another lays down family members. With regard to the question, given that you are doing some kind of ad to me with such an intervention, Mr. Ambassador Dr. Gorenak, a brief answer. Of course, this law would have been prepared even if it had not been for Mr Bavčar, this law has no direct relationship with Mr Bavčar and solves It is because we claim to be amending the 93rd article of a law which is very important to rationalise the procedures in prisons on the one hand and, on the other hand, implements the multiannual recommendations of the Ombudsman and the Council of Europe's Committee for the Prevention of Torture, because of one person – this is pointless. [[…]] Sandi Grubelič – you said 20 years. I found out about this case when we started drafting this law, and this case also solves this law. I don't know when you found out about this case, but you've been in leading positions in the executive branch for a long time, not to mention Parliament, but you didn't mention it before. However, I would like to say that for the first time, we have taken seriously how many of these cases there are — about 16 a year. Of course, these 16 cases do not in themselves justify a change in the law, unless it is very severely distorted, in fact, people's confidence in the rule of law is very limited. I would add to what has been said in the introduction, I think that, by Mr Grims, we have now focused on this article on the restrictions on the postponement of the execution of sentences, with all the opinions cited today, the opinions which opposed such a solution, the opinion of the Bar, the opinion of the Ombudsman, the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, Mr Jenul's article and so on, however, referring to the article before it was amended. [[…]] That's how much honesty it takes. On the committee, we proposed an amendment, which has made the matter a lot easier, even too smooth for my taste, but that's how we agreed. At the same time, it is important to make it very clear that you quoted an article that appeared recently in Legal Practice from Mr Jenul. Since you obviously read the Legal Practice several times, in recent legal practice 9. 7. is the answer to Mr Jenul, not from anyone who is connected with the Ministry of Justice, but from the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the French Helhal v France, a very new judgment, on 19 February 2005, where a similar or even worse regime in France was brought before the European Court. The European Court of Justice has attached France in this case. That is our point – they are reading the legal practice and then they will read that I will not be burdening the entire plenary by reading from the article. I would also like to say that, by means of a new article in article 60 of the Act, we are adequately raising the provision of care for those vulnerable groups, which are either sick, old, disabled and so on, in the prison system, by establishing a special care unit, which the Ombudsman has also warned about over the years. I would like to say something else, according to numbers that I think is also fair, around healthcare, which is given to persons who are in prison in Slovenia. We've got about a year or so in recent years, it's really growing, now it's a little settled, a thousand 500 prisoners. Justice officers carry out, say, and write 6,000 700 trips each year for specialist examinations — for a thousand 500 prisoners! 250 hospital treatments per year come to Slovenian prisoners, because Slovenian prisons are included in the public health network and therefore there are no special reasons, except that when it comes to hospital treatment or some exceptional cases, a person may not be punished and then, if necessary, the punishment may be suspended for health reasons, as decided by the court and then by a special commission, and faster than it has happened now. Once again, if we take this as a criterion, a similar system has also been confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights in a system that has, in principle, this, I tell you, whether you believe me or not, French prisons are usually worse prisons than Slovenian prisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, for your application. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I don't know, you're a broken coalition then - or what? Like a smurf. You claim, Minister, that this is not the answer to Bavčar's question, but you do not know what it is, but Mr Škoberne has made it very clear that the coalition is responding to current events. Yeah, then what are the current events about it? Is there a Miha Schrafciger who's given a role or something we don't know? I mean, I read in the papers about current events of course suspected prison escape, which was not at all, just in the case of Igor Bavčar. Then explain to me how this law responds to current events! That's what your member of the coalition says, and you're saying something else. In short, I don't believe you, because you know I don't believe you, not just in this case. Not for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Here you go. Magi's proponent. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you, Vice President. That we do not put words in our mouths Of course, every law is also a response to certain current events, to a certain situation in society, which does not mean that the law was created only because of this. [[…]] At that time, the prohibition or the problem of avoiding punishment began to be raised in society and we took it seriously; we found out what the problem was, what the extent of the problem was. That's when we learned, among other things, about Sandi Grubelič. But as far as mutual trust is concerned, they are [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's right, the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Branku Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you. First of all, I do not see any reason for a relatively insulted reaction given that we were talking only about legal arguments and, in the case at hand, I helped myself with one of the legal practices, specifically with the contribution of Mr Hinko Jenul. The fact is that in the case of France, the European Court of Justice has ruled as you said, only then must it be added b. B, however, is that the constitutional regime in France is different, that there are different social conditions, that it is a different history, and that there is something else that I could count. And of course, maybe it's legal or otherwise, it's true. What we are talking about is our constitutional order and our extradition or our legal practice. However, as far as this legal practice is concerned, it is interesting that you are right in the reply that I have quoted, the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana has written that delayed changes are necessary because of, quote, 'anomalies in practice'. This is said to be a case written on a particular case, and it is likely that everyone in this Chamber is clear on what this is about, and there is no reason for it to be doing a circus now, but we are talking about what is actually better for society. I firmly believe that the Slovenian regime in this area is appropriate, that we do not need any French prisons, that we have a society as it is, and that, as far as this is concerned, even if you want the non-violent extradition of this company, we must do everything we can to keep it, including the proper regulation of all institutions, and that it does not overreact to a particular case. For once again, I quote Mr Hinko Jenul – and here more than I agree with him –: an anomaly, if it comes to it, must be resolved where it comes to, not by the abolition of the institute, which it came to, because then things go too far. This is the old Slovenian solution, because something is bothering us, and then we throw dirty water out the window, and we ignore the baby being thrown out. That's not how it works. That's not how you do it. That's the problem with that logic. Besides, I wouldn't be too long, 'cause there's only one thing I need to know. In this defense, one thing was quite comical. The point is that the law is 93 articles long, and you are now stuck in one or two articles. Yes, of course, because there were comments! The observations of the institutions I listed were the Bar, the State Attorney's Office, the Ombudsman, and the Institute of Criminal Sciences at the Faculty of Law, all warned that the matter was problematic there. And then if he's defending himself in this case with this logic that 93 members were fine, but you're just stuck in one, it's about as one would say when the police stopped him because he just hit someone on the footwalk. Yeah, look at the 93 walkways, and I drove all right, and I dodged all the pedestrians, and now I've run one over here, and that's why you're stopping me and punishing me for what it says. It's no excuse, it's no conversation, it's no argument. If something is so that we think it's controversial, let's talk about it and just face the arguments. In the end, we all know how, unfortunately, with legal practice in this House and in the end, when you run out of arguments, you will vote in your own way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law on covert grave wars and the burial of victims within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ludmilo Novak. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law of Mrs Ludmila Novak. [[She's not here.]] The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs, disabled persons as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 13th session of 30th. 6. The draft Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ljudmilo Novak, submitted as a parent working body. Members and members of the Committee received the following materials: the draft law itself, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the opinion of the Commission for Social Protection, the work, health and disabled persons of the State Council and the amendments of the SMC and New Slovenia parliamentary groups. The meeting was attended by representatives of the proposer with the first signed by Mrs Ljudmilo Novak, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Ministry of Economic Development, representative of the Law and Legal Service, President and Vice-President of the Association of Associations of Fighters for the values of NOB, representative of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the resolution of the issue of hidden graves and representative of the Association for the Regulating of Silent Graves. As has already been said, amendments were submitted to the Law, which has 18 articles, to the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and to the Modern Centre Party Group. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. The service itself specifically pointed out the unclear legal relationship between the Commission's status as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the issue of hidden graves, since, given the designation and the manner in which members and members are appointed, it appears to be a consultative body of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant stressed that the draft law regulates the area of decent burial of all victims of war and post-war violence in hidden graves in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the representative of the Government presented the Government's position, which is likely to be here also, that the bill should be examined in terms of a systemic and legal aspect, or that the aim and purpose of the drafter of the law should be better regulated by amending the already existing War Cemetery Act. With this opinion, the Government does not want to open up to those who promote ideological fighting and create new divisions. The final aim is to bring together all stakeholders who are working to solve the decent burial of all victims of war and post-war violence, to find a better, best solution. The views of the parliamentary groups, the United Left, the SDS, Desus and the Alliance were highlighted that the proposed law was not necessary, as we have an existing War Cemetery Act that could only be amended. In the SDS Group, although they say they do not object to the bill, they feel that a new law is not necessary for the burial of the victims, since the law already in force allows the registration and burial of the victims. At times, too, in a mere ideological debate, the view was expressed that Slovenian politics did not know and can not unify on these issues and that there is another populist accounting. It also raised the issue of the Commission's competence to address the issue of hidden graves, which, in the opinion of some discussers, is given too much authority and responsibility is still left at the Ministry. In particular, administrative obstacles must be removed which prevent the procedure from being brought from the grave record to the register. The comment was also made by a provision introducing administrative dualism, since parts of the powers so far have been transferred to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Committee further adopted all amendments, both the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Modern Centre Party Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The bill is an integral part of the report of the committee you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u101	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the proposal's view, the aim of the bill before us is to fully regulate the area of hidden war graves for all victims of war and post-war violence, thereby guaranteeing all fallen persons the right to a decent burial, the marking of a grave or a cemetery and the memory of them. The bill redefines the expression of hidden military graves, alleged military graves, newly discovered military graves and a final decent burial. It also lays down jurisdiction over the implementation of the law, the manner of work and jurisdiction otherwise, as is now regulated by the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the resolution of hidden military graves, the whole procedure for the detection of these graves, the entry of graves into the register and the register of cultural heritage, and the organisation and financing of war graves. The government notes that the area of war graves, as well as the hidden war graves, has already been regulated by the applicable War Cemetery Act. In the light of the debate we have had on both the Committee and the public, we have found that there are some shortcomings in the current law, where the proposer has ensured that this proposal will eliminate, supplement and regulate them in such a way that implementation, detection of these hidden war graves will be faster, better accelerated and that entries in the register will also be faster. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia understands and supports the purpose and objectives that the proposed law seeks to achieve. We believe that this proposal makes it possible to improve certain technical procedures in the detection of hidden war graves in order to reduce the detection and regulation of these sites. At the same time, we believe that, given that the bill is largely governed only by detection, overcast and burial of victims and other procedures that lead to the regulation of the cemetery of war, it seems appropriate for us to have an amendment which has been adopted for this area to be the responsibility of the ministry covering the burial and burial activities. However, I would like to conclude by stressing that, with this opinion, the entire debate on the proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not want to open up to those who promote ideological struggle and create new divisions. The purpose of the Government is to re-establish Slovenia and its citizens, citizens, residents and residents as part of an open, fair, solidarity, just, progressive and confident society. The ultimate goal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to join forces and find the best solutions for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u103	Since the assembly held a general discussion at its eighth meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? All right, sign in. I'll give her my word first, because she's a proponent. First of all, Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to propose. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u104	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! New Slovenia has proposed a law on hidden war graves and the burial of victims in order to make this area more thoroughly settled, because there have been problems all the time, as has been pointed out by the Commission for the Hidden War Cemetery, which has so far played the role of the consultative body with the Government. Unfortunately, however, what the Commission had often proposed was not taken into account and, in fact, the graves were not registered in the register of war graves. In this we have encountered a number of problems, because the existing law does not regulate the details of how to record graves, how to make probes, how to record, when, who writes in the register of war graves, who asks for the consent of the owners and so on. In short, there have been problems, but of course we find that on one side the law is not good enough for these purposes, on the other hand there is a lack of political will and on the third side there is a lack of money. The amendment proposed by the United Left, namely to exclude two resolutions; the resolution adopted by the Council of Europe, the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on the conviction of parliamentary regimes, we do not think it is justified. Slovenia is a member of the Council of Europe, Slovenia is a member of the European Union. In 2009, when we adopted this resolution on the judgment of totalitarian regimes in the European Parliament, all Slovenian MEPs voted in favour of this resolution, which is balanced, which is carefully written and supported by most European Members. Let's see, just today, an invasion of Srebrenica began, just today, 20 years ago. At the beginning, we had a very sad session, or we remembered these events in Srebrenica, and I am sure that we all feel that a crime has occurred, that it is wrong, that it must be condemned, and above all that it is a reminder to all of us that such things will not happen again. And we cannot say that in Slovenia it is different, 15 thousand Slovenians lying in hidden graves, over six of them, along with hundreds of thousands of victims, are facts that cannot be avoided, which cannot be hidden, which we simply have to admit. The basic civilisation norm of any civilized society is to take care of the burial of these victims, to arrange graves, so that every human being has the civil right to graves and memories. If we feel sorry for the victims, the refugees, all that is happening around the world, then it is good for them to feel sorry for us, have compassion and want to resolve this problem in Slovenia. If victims are identified and buried with dignity in Srebrenica every year, then it is only right that we do so in Slovenia after 70 years. We have also then taken into account everything proposed by Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service or the comments then proposed in the form of amendments to the Committee and were adopted. Therefore, we believe that our marriage is the right step in the right direction. Of course, we oppose this amendment because it excludes resolutions that have been adopted both in the Council of Europe and in the European Parliament, because Slovenia is a member of these institutions and it is right for us to have the same standards as we have for other cases at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u105	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u106	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, thank you for your input! In the United Left, we do not support the proposed Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Funeral of Victims. We are convinced that the law already in force is satisfactorily governing this area. If there is a real need for technical corrections, they could be introduced with a bill, but of course there would be no political points, there would not be a reopening of the topic with which the right has been poisoning our political space for twenty years. We have prepared our amendment because the law in Article 1 clearly shows its purpose. This isn't about technical law. This is about ideological law. Through the back door, it introduces historical revisionism as it refers to two resolutions which have a clear intention of imposing a right-wing view of history. We have witnessed historical revisionism, changing and adapting history in recent years from day to day in more or less different variants. But behind it all lies the grading of the national liberation struggle, which was the struggle for national, cultural and social liberation and, of course, the fight against the Nazi invader. At the same time, with this historical auditism, the invader's collaborators are trying to appear as national patriots, and the partisan movement is trying to fly over and strip him of his historical role. Article 1 of the Act mentions two resolutions aimed at imposing a specific model for the interpretation of modern European and global history, namely the Resolution on the International Conviction of Crimes and Totalitarian Communist Regimes and the Resolution of the European Parliament on European consciousness and totalitarianism. The last is this unfortunate resolution, for which the SDS has tried several times to gain the support of the National Assembly. It will therefore also be discussed at this meeting, and this time it will be rejected, which is perfectly logical, as it is based on the pseudo concept of totalitarianism, under which it wants to equalize the different regimes of the 20th century – Nazism, fascism and communism. And, of course, it's only about demonizing the latter, it's called communism. Both NOB and Yugoslav socialism are our common history, whether it is right or wrong. And you need to know that many Slovenians have positive memories of this part of history or at least accept it as a normal part of the common history of the nation. In the United Left, we therefore reject the empty and swollen historical generalizations with which the right hand wants to throw both fascism and communism into the same basket. We do not gloat over the number of communist regimes with fascists, as it would be very easy for them to include the crimes of some exemplary European democracies. Efforts towards a different society, socialism has further acquired general and equal electoral rights from the Paris community, social services and most of the civilisational achievements that should be appreciated today, but are being consistently eliminated by neoliberal doctrine. The ideas of socialism and the movements that have pursued these socialist values have opened the way for democracy to spread to all areas of human life, and especially to those where unforgivable despotism exists in exemplary democracies, it is said in jobs. Now, in Article 1 of the War Cemetery Act, are we going to end all of this and agree to historic revisionism?Oh, my God! The Government's arguments also confirm that the declarations that we are deleting with our amendment for historical revisionism are in question. Let me quote: "The proposed approach in the proposed resolution could mean the introduction of the so-called historical revisionism, i.e. the redirection of the assessment of half-lived history in 1939, which could even inadvertently equalize the national liberation fight and its acquisitions with the Nazi and fascist system and co-operation with them and fully disregard the specifics of Slovenia." Of course, a calm soul could be released from the quote 'inadvertently', because it is a deliberate and continuous attempt to equalize the occupying and co-workers with the occupying national liberation fighting against the occupying. As a recent interview said partisan Alojz Kajin, who arrived liberated in Ljubljana on 9 May: "We resisted the invader, they fought with him against us. Isn't it clear here?" We therefore have before us the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, which you say is a technical law by the proponent and supporters. So why don't we fix the old marriage? The reference to a harmful audit resolution in Article 1 shows that the applicant's ambitions are different. The adoption of a completely new law is an indication that it is also a political issue and prestige for the proposer. If we are wrong, then you will vote in favour of our amendment, which deletes the controversial text referred to in Article 1. This will prove that it is a technical law and not the introduction of historical revisionism through the back door. In particular, at this point, I ask my colleague and colleagues from the SMC, in particular because SMC is a central party that does not want to be identified ideologically at all, and in particular in the light of the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. What is your position on this resolution? You turned her down on the board and now do you insist? The Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Funerals of the Victims has been supported and several arguments have been put forward in his favor. How do you explain the fact that you support the law enshrined in Article 1 of the resolution, which you rightly object to? Colleagues and colleagues of the SMC Member, what is your view that legislation refers to a political document that the Government considers to be potentially contrary to the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court? Thank you for answering these questions in the next debate. Of course, the situation is perfectly clear, if you want to maintain at least a fraction of political credibility and if you want to show at least some political consistency, if you want to show common sense, then you have two options – either support our amendment or vote against the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u107	Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor as her proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u108	So the text of the Council of Europe and of the European Parliament declarations is disputed for you, but it is not disputed for Europe, for democratic Europe and for the institutions of the European Union. You're talking about how the law in force could be corrected if we were to pick political points. We wanted to do this because we wondered why these hidden graves weren't registered in the register, why don't you worry about them, why they don't come to the overpass, etc. We have even written amendments to this law, but when we have met those who face this issue daily, they have just said that problems are going elsewhere, and it is on the basis of those who have had experience in this area for more than twenty years working in this area that we have proposed a new law on the basis of their experience. If we were also to amend the existing one, do you think that a similar debate would not be as exciting as they are now? That's exactly what they'd say. So whoever's on this topic here wants to pick up political points and encourage people to hate or fight further, I think he's a great politician. We want to regulate this area by means of this law in order to make progress, because it is high time, if there are so many graves for 70 years and nothing happens, it is necessary to find the reasons and then propose appropriate measures. You're talking about a history review. Look, when I was a European Member, I was present at a meeting prepared by the historians of Germany and the historians of France. We know that in history these two countries have constantly fought. Strasbourg is a city, a German, a French and a constant struggle, and so on. At this meeting, they presented a common history textbook and recorded the truths that they had come together. That is why I also wish that in Slovenia historians have the last word, because we, politicians, are biased, direct participants on the one hand and on the other. Only when historians write down the truths with which we will majorityly or they will agree on each other on the basis of revealed facts will that record likely be credible. Because we know that history is written by winners, but this record is always biased. Our marriage doesn't speak against the partisan fight either. Our marriage talks about victims, about hidden graves, and these victims mostly happened even after the war. So we're not talking about partisans, but we're talking about the violence that's caused these victims and they need to be buried. That's all our marriage talks about. Those are the facts. This isn't about distorting history. Fifteen thousand Slovenians are supposed to be in these tombs, over 600 graves. This needs to be regulated and no one can deny it in Slovenia anymore. Therefore, it is not a matter of deliberation or a change in history. And you can't claim that all those in the tombs were killed just by the employees of the invader. We know there was a very chaotic situation back then. All were running across each other, members of different armies, different nationalities, including the Slovenian, the same Slovenian fought in different armies because it was a coincidence. So we can't just sort people, just as we imagine, and throw them all into the same basket and consider them all traitors; and even if they were, if they were, they were human. And every man has the right to a funeral and a grave. This is also what we want to say with our law. Finally, the president and the member of the NOB Values Association were present on the committee when we discussed this law. What did they say? Let's bury those dead! There's an appeal from them: let's do something. I am sure that many who were directly involved as perpetrators are still suffering today or have suffered a great deal. If I were to be cleared up once, even if someone had been punished for this, I think everyone would have experienced some liberation because only the truth frees up. But, as I said, our marriage talks about the way, the criteria, the procedures, how to detect hidden graves and how to bury the victims.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u109	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u110	President, thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that we could also implement the current War Cemetery Act, which was adopted in 2003, with the majority support, and that New Slovenia was then in favour of this Act, and it was amended in 2009. At this point, it would be worth mentioning that the new law does not have a broad consensus that this law is supported by only two parliamentary groups, namely the Modern Centre Party and Nova Slovenija. In our view, the old law already deals effectively enough with all the essential issues that should be addressed by the new law. It should now be implemented and the country has not paid enough attention to these issues in the light of the financial and economic crisis, and has not devoted enough money because it has fallen into a deep recession. The creation of a monument to all victims of war and war-related victims in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia was the fruit of the current law, even the text that was supposed to be written on the board has already been defined by the existing law. I regret to say, however, that I have been personally, orally invited by the President of the Republic, to an event that has been honoured with the actual establishment of monuments. At that time, the sky cried. But there was a profound reason, for not all the political factors that I had personally expected were there. I've been very, very careful about that. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners we also have some technical dilemmas around the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims, which are primarily related to the work and status of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to solve the issues of hidden graves. We are still disturbed by the unclear legal status of the Commission, although the composition and competences of the Commission have been amended in this process, which was in Parliament. It is still unclear whether it is an advisory body of the government or whether it is an administrative body, as it is appointed by the government and their powers are more than administrative in nature. It seems strange to us, for example, that the Commission may propose to the Minister to replace the secretary or his deputy if, in her opinion, he fails to fulfil the tasks entrusted to him. So it's the commission of the Ministry, which, by the way, is watching over the legislation. It is also unusual at this point that we will now have two laws on the same issues and that two ministries will take care of its implementation. This could further complicate the procedures for regulating hidden war graves. It is supposed to be a technical law, you say, the proponents, but it seems to us that we do already have a technical law and that the new one only opens up additional questions, and eventually the procedures will be even longer than they have been before. The law also has no financial implications, but I will not lose any words here, because we are also in the Group of the Democratic Party of Retirement, and reconciliation comes later, of course, with the good will of the people and with the withdrawal of the policy, which strongly encourages the fact that there is then a separation of people. We do not want to open ideological themes in the parliamentary group because we respect the memory of all victims. Everyone deserves a decent grave and a proper mark. That is why we have decided not to discuss much today, but to vote in our conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u111	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First, to begin with, the question to all of us sitting here in the National Assembly — how can you treat crime selectively? How can you treat a crime selectively? You're talking about the crime that happened in Srebrenica, something monstrous happened, there was a genocide against the nation, there was a crime against humanity, and we're all condemning it, and that's exactly what happened. On the other hand, however, you are defending the crime that took place at the end of World War II on Slovenian soil. How can you act so selectively? It's a mental attitude, it's a two-faced behavior, it's a mere hypocrisy. It is only when you realize that no matter what totalitarianism has caused them, we cannot act selectively, that we can breathe our future together more easily and honestly. Did the events that took place in the Hudi Cave, in Košnica, in Teharja, even in Armenia, even in Ukraine — the holodomer, in Srebrenica, 20 years ago — really touch you not to act selectively? The United Left has tabled an amendment to the National Assembly saying that it is necessary for the law on hidden war graves and the burial of victims not to be bound by a European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which is, of course, a complete absurdity. Even if we know that the resolution of the European Parliament is related and is based on resolutions and declarations, including the European Treaty on the Respect for Human Rights, which speaks about respect for all human dignity and respect for victims. This is a resolution of the European Parliament that you do not want to discuss, which you will not confirm on Wednesday in the National Assembly. The United Left even says that the War Cemetery Act should not refer to this resolution. This is totally unacceptable, even for the United Left, that I am not talking about Europe. Even Cyprus and Sirizo are unacceptable. But you're staying in these shackles. You don't find that completely out of the ordinary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are certainly opposed to the amendment tabled in the United Left, because it is entirely irresponsible to table an amendment that opposes basic civilisation standards and the joint effort of European nations after life without totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. This amendment today proves that the value system of some individuals in the political space is severely impaired. I am personally convinced that if Slovenians and Slovenians asked today whether the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes should be convicted, they would say yes. So, Slovenian social space is ripe for such a step. Unfortunately, Slovenian politics is not mature because of the left, which insists on the need to condemn fascism and Nazism, but when we talk about communism, it is almost the most beautiful thing that has happened to us. But communism has caused much woe to the Slovenian nation as well: not only Fascism and not only Nazism but also communism. Failure to support any such document, however, means supporting crimes committed in the name of totalitarianism. And at the same time, today we all have these flowers attached to us so that something like that that happened in Srebrenica would never happen again. We all know that this was wrong, what happened in Srebrenica, we all know that it was wrong, but also those sitting in the United Left today and having a rose attached to it say that we cannot support the resolution of the European Parliament, even though, respected colleagues from the United Left, the resolution of the European Parliament also refers, inter alia, to the Resolution of the European Parliament on Srebrenica. On 15 January 2009, this resolution of the European Parliament on Srebrenica, on genocide in Srebrenica, was adopted. And the European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism refers specifically to this resolution. It's nothing but duality, and you can't justify it with anything to vote against it. To vote against. The amendment, as it is said, will not be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but if I refer to the law itself, I can say that we will not oppose the law, as we did when we had the general debate when I said it. We appreciate any effort to bury the dead, but we claim that the origins of this law are completely wrong. They come from the War Cemeteries Act, which was adopted in 2003, and at that time, both in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in Novi Slovenija, we obstructed this vote precisely because of these starting points. For we claim that in these cases there is also a need to condemn the post-war revolution, to condemn the communist regime and also to condemn the perpetrators. Finally, the resolution of the European Parliament also speaks of this. Among other things, the European Parliament's resolution says that an in-depth debate on these issues must be held and not avoided. And we've been pushing it far away from us for so many and so many years, but once, it's on the plan, and then it's uncontrollable. Uncontrollable. You can still control it today because you have people in positions that can solve it, but it will eventually become uncontrollable, and then it will be billed to all of us. All of us. Especially those politicians who have been in the position all this time, that nothing has happened since World War II and that criminals do not need to be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u113	I'm asking you to sign up again. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! I think when we talk about these issues, we should all be united in some assessments. I personally greatly appreciate the national liberation fight and the rebellion against the occupying party. I believe that the collaboration with the invaders during World War II was an act of rejection that cannot be excused by the anti-communist struggle, but at the same time I believe that postwar killings were a crime that should not have happened. And if we come from these three, I think not too complicated truths, then in this light we also need to observe and study this bill that we have before us today. I have examined it myself, and I do not see in it the fears that colleague Tomić has stated that it is an attempt to review the outcome of World War II. As to who was on the right side during World War II, I do not think there is any need to debate. We all know who were on the side of the Anti-Hitler Coalition, who were the winners of World War II, in a literal and moral sense, and we know who was on the wrong side, who was supporting Hitler, Mussolini and others. There can't be any on this audit. Even in this law, if we look from article to article, you cannot find this attempt to review World War II. However, that this law seeks to achieve some vehemicalization standards, that we have dead people lying in the abyss, in the woods buried in inappropriate places, in an inappropriate way, and that this needs to be remedied, I believe that no one in this Chamber can oppose it. Since the law has been in force for a long time, apparently it was not a good tool to achieve this goal, it has a simple purpose. Here I cannot agree with my colleagues from Desus who say that both marriages cross because they do not. This law aims to bring the grave, which is so far undetected, which is not marked in a credible, civilised way, to this stage when it is possible to register it in the war graves register, to be civilised, to be identified as a place where the victims have been buried, if possible, to be buried, and in other cases to be satisfied with all the vehemicalisation standards. That's why I think it's because it's really a technical law, but it's in the service of some vesicularisation values, that politicization and ideology is inappropriate here. If the preamble mentions this resolution, then we must admit that after World War II that regime was communist and totalitarian, because otherwise we cannot name it, but that does not mean that we justify cooperation during World War II or that we want to support the changes in the outcome of World War II, that we want to reverse history. No, no, no. Our support is only in this direction that the victims, whatever they are already ours, are properly buried if they are members of foreign countries, are allowed by these countries to bury them or at least mark the place of the grave. And I don't know, dear colleagues, who could object to this. I don't see any attempt here to review World War II. I assure you, if this law were to try to change the outcome of World War II in any sense, I am the first to oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u115	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. You could've done without a doctor. We've only told the truth, Mrs. Ludmila, yes. Before I begin, I will say that I have a good part among my friends, I can say, almost most of my friends and friends from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from various parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in what way in this internal debate we have in the National Assembly, which is partly connected to some "fiscal" and voice buying, you include Srebrenica, my stomach is turning. Of course, the intransigence of Srebrenica must be spoken of, again and again and so on, but in the way you are now bringing it into this debate – this is my personal opinion – is shameful. We can't proceed selectively to crimes. It's true, Mrs. Irgle, I was alone on white ribbons in Predor. You're a big fish soup fan, and I didn't see you there. I thought we'd get our hands on each other and be unselective there. I hope that you will continue to lead the committee that you are chairing, which you have led selectively lately. Slovenian politics is not mature. That's right. We could ask ourselves how many mandates there are in Slovenian politics and why Slovenian policy is not mature. I would also like to have some in-depth debate, but of course in this in-depth debate, that this is not a review of history, because Europe is based and built on, I will be precise that some historian will not attack me, antinacism. If we trample on this, of course, then we get what's going on in Greece. That's all I'd say about the darkness. Please don't abuse Srebrenica because it's a very serious genocide for this ping-ponging of yours, and I hope "fiscal" won't be accepted. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u117	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much, President. We are talking – in fact, I don't even know if we're talking about technical law or we're talking about a law where we're going to politically bring this beloved Slovenia back for all the events that have happened. I really don't know. Some say that we have heard before that it is actually a technical law, others say that it is a political law, ideologically, that certain issues will come through the back door, because we will essentially clear up the past, or maybe even get a basis for us to start fixing textbooks, what really happened and what not. I'm deliberately asking open questions so that we know what we're talking about. In fact, I simply do not believe in the initiators with Article 1 that it is because, in fact, with the old law, we cannot fix the existing law, as the proponents say, any more certain issues that we are now correcting by technical law. If it is a technical law, I am sure that the old law can be technically regulated, and then we will, in the end, nomotechically, arrange for it to endure and that the law will stand as it needs to be. Why not? Because, in fact, with the new law, to be honest, we are all talking today about this amendment of the United Left – which I personally strongly support, because I see no reason why the law in Article 1 could no longer stand if there was no more this dictatorship in there, where resolution 1481 on the international condemnation of crimes of totalitarian communist regimes is supported, and so on, I do not repeat. Let one Member, the proponents or the Government tell me whether we can bury in a decent manner all post-war killings, which is, of course, the basic intention of the law itself, if there is no such dictatorship in this resolution. Will we be able to or not, or does this prevent us from doing this? I am sure that this is all one farce; therefore – now I am warning the coalition, not the candidates, but the applicants, in fact, it does not matter to them, it is important for this law to be adopted, but of course there is another problem in the coalition. On Wednesday we will discuss and we will all have what you will have on the table if you want to print out what Mrs Irgle was talking about and relying on – you know, this is the populist one – whether you condemn the totalitarian killings they've done and so on. Are you judging them? Yes, of course they do, because every normal person condemns them! But not the way we're going to talk about just these things, and the way we're going to deal with them on Wednesday. And now, a well-respected coalition, I am sure that on Wednesday you will firmly reject what the proponents have proposed. Today, however, you will bring to Article 1 what you refuse on Wednesday. Crazy, crazy. Think about what you are doing and ask your own conscience and do not refer to the fact that if this is what the European Parliament has accepted, then we can put this into every article, in every law, just so that it will be a calm soul and we will do so – what? What are we gonna do about it? We'll make peace! Please, no reconciliation will ever be based on marriage, ever, ever! Reconciliation can only be in a number of ways, and one of these is sure that each of you will first have a clear idea of what it is and who it will deal with, and the other, more importantly, that you have a clear idea of having a relationship with certain actions. That's why I don't allow, especially not the proponents to sell me a success story today, which is called, let's give it -- and now, be careful, I'm quoting statements that I'm not going to say, "Drop this sacrifice." Yeah, well, who's making it impossible for that to happen? Do we have a problem with that? We don't. We have a relation to these issues, repeatedly expressed, all the presidents of the state, the National Assembly, the governments have repeatedly said this, the previous, present and future will all repeat it. Now we move on, for a few more steps: the intention, the essence of this law is – and now I ask the proponents directly, and then answer me the question, and you have enough time. With this law, you say we'll arrange post-war graves. I wonder if this law will settle the issue of the Hude Cave. I'm sure you don't. And you're going to answer me, because I'm going to make you a hypothesis now, so answer me. The grave cave is registered in the register of the existing law. We are adopting a new law that will deal with issues under the new law. Where's the money going? I guess he'll go through the money on the basis of an existing law, a new one, not an old one. So, I have a serious problem with whether this money and this law are going to solve the issue of the Hude Cave. Finally, I have a problem once again that the two ministries will deal with this same issue. Moreover, SMC has proposed an amendment that brings part of the issue to MGRT. Please! The Ministry of Economic Development will now deal with post-war victims. Well, that's the whole logic of it. Don't convince me that this is a serious question and a pieteau and a relationship with the dead because it has nothing to do with it. It's a purely perfect political issue. The SD is running the Ministry of Labour today and since MGRT does not run the Ministry of Labour or the SD, we will now transfer some of the issues to another ministry. Do you know what that means in practice? I will give you an example that I have told you on the committee: we already have problems at a public cemetery where we handle graves of important national importance, and they are regulated by international treaties, and these are different burial sites – Austrian, Italian and similar. Who's handling them? They should be a public company, the ministry has issued a call, they're actually being handled by another company now, and one square there is being handled by another company now, and when they do, of course, the rest is not arranged because it's not working on the same schedule, the wind blows, the leaves come back and we have the unordered cemetery again. I'm telling you, plastically, we have an even worse situation now. With your proposal, the same thing will now be handled by two ministries, and these two ministries, as the default, will not make a difference. And you're convincing me today, all of you, that this will settle the question of graves. In this way, I'm sorry, no, because it's an anti-technical law that does everything that doesn't work out because it complicates the whole thing. That is why I simply do not support such laws. The only thing I support, the proposer, is that I believe you have a sincere intention to resolve this issue, but those who have brought these issues to you through the back door, of course, do not want to solve it this way. Take a look at the next case. The Commission's draft law, the Commission's proposal envisaged that payments would be paid, that payments would disappear in the second reading, that there would be some strange and interesting compromise, which means that it would work with the heart or what it's called. Believe me, the members of the commission don't work anywhere with their hearts, not even years or years if they don't get paid for this job. Once again, we've made one win to get people to work, I don't know over the weekends, in the afternoons, because they probably have some of their jobs, they have some work to do. So when are they gonna do it? Moreover, the representatives of the major political organisations considered to be the largest in the country say that this problem will now be resolved in one year, I am specifically talking about the Evil Cave. How? Who's gonna fix this? We don't have money on one side, and we have an unpaid commission and we're going to make it complicated to the end, because we have two ministries that are going to handle these issues. And you're saying it's a technical law? The people around us are confident that we will settle this whole arrangement. And today I'm listening to Assistant Archbishop Jamnik, who's saying that everything in the corner of Kočev was a bluff. It was one bluff. I'm afraid I'll get the same answer. When you accept this, one day someone will say again, in one year or two, three years, when the matter will not be settled, it was unfortunately one bluff. So much for decent funerals. By myself, I've cleared up with reconciliation, with the past, you're not going to convince me that this law is the right thing to do. C'est la vie, a worthy burial.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u119	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, everyone! In 2008, a meeting of all the countries of the European Union, which I led on the topic of intercultural dialogue with one basic message, took place in this same Chamber, that intercultural dialogue requires frank and uninterference. Today, in fact, our work is turning into a struggle for truth, the question of how much truth this national assembly is carrying on. I'm not just asking this thesis because I've been facing this issue all day. In the morning, Minister Marble, when we talked about Greece, only said that it was only necessary to assess if the situation in Greece threatened the euro, but I replied that of course nothing threatened the well-being of people living here, Slovenia, the euro and the whole European Union as much as the power of extreme left-wing people. And it was from this half hour of shouting, and I don't know what to give me out of the bag, but the reminders, even though I told the truth about which the whole of Europe is talking about, the whole world. Here, too, when we talk about this law, we face a similar problem of how much truth this national assembly bears; and to face this issue is a tragedy, a multifaceted tragedy. In fact, even in the morning, a meeting in this national assembly or in the morning began with a statement that was certainly said in good faith but is not confused, is not real. It was said, "Silver is the worst killing since World War II on European soil" – where! The worst killings are those on Slovenian soils that occurred after the end of World War II, Srebrenica is not even greater if compared, but the Srebrenica tragedy is already inconceivable, is something that must be regretted by everyone and forever. But what was here is even worse. And that's what we're really dealing with. The law before us has many weak points, just when it comes to the truth. It may be well - intentioned as a compromise, but look, it's just the title of the Secret War Cemetery Act. It's not just war graves, it's not! The main problem is war crimes, not the cemetery. The post-war killing sites. A place where a crime against humanity has taken place, which is not obsolete, but unfortunately again Slovenia does not want to face again and so it will face again and again, paradoxically, and so it will continue if we do not say it openly and without misdirection, as it should. We all agree, here we have really found a common ground that what happened in Srebrenica is a crime, but also what happened here after World War II, it is very clear to say crime. Europe has done so, it has done just that with the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, where it has equalled all totalitarianism and condemned them equally, with the same criterion. And just as a criterion in this case, it's the truth. Every crime is a crime. If a crime is a crime against one person, if it is against one million people or if it is against one hundred million people, it is still a crime of the same value as a conviction, victims of the same value of rehabilitation and recognition of honor and crime as such, and convictions and regrets. In order not to be able to deal with this, this, I don't know, 25 years we have been independent, 25 years we have a modern European constitution, 25 years, and one part of Slovenia lives on values in a completely different regime, which has long since rumbled at the dump site of history, with the exception of some very exotic ends of the world, such as North Korea, possibly the Stožice. This is a problem because it affects everything; it also affects our development. Because we don't know when the values that are the basis of every policy are scientific findings, axiom. When it comes to values, we don't know how to say bob beans. We don't want to. Some of us can warn, then we get tired, but we come back to the point called the question of general human values. Those already covered by the basic declarations and resolutions of the United Nations and later more precisely defined in individual acts of the European Union that apply to Slovenia, but in Slovenia one part of the policy does not wish to support them, although this same policy has voted in favour of these same documents through its Members in the European Union, specifically in the case of the Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism, which some now wish to delete from this law. And this amendment, in its own way, is good. Just don't get me wrong. It's good because it exposes this transition left movement, which always shows one face on the outside and one face on the inside. Why does that happen? Because when we talk about these totalitarian systems, whose fall was only the first and basic condition for the emergence of a modern united Europe. It's really about the base of the same thing, about the same system. Both the socialism of the Nazis in Germany and the socialism of the communists in Russia was based on Marx, this was acknowledged by both Hitler and Stalin; more than once. Those here today who try to deny it have themselves issued two sessions back, when they did not know how to separate their own words from the words of Adolf Hitler, which I read to you, and they stood up and beat their fists: we stand for each of these words. Yeah, that's great! You stood up for Adolf Hitler because he was also a socialist, ladies and gentlemen. That's why this debate is so absurd, and that's why, of course, 50 years ago, there's something so loud about collaboration here today, and who was it, and who wasn't, because he wants to hide himself from it, that it's the same thing. Why was World War II so devastating, and why did it become so hot? Because of that first collaboration, the worst of all when both socialisms participated, when why did Poland collapse in just three weeks is a huge country? [[…]] Because on one side Hitler attacked her with his army of socialists from Germany and on the other side Stalin with his red armada Socialists from Russia. That's why! At that time, not a committee against Nazism was established here in Slovenia, as was misunderstood, but it was an anti-imperialist front to fight England, France and America. That's what I was taught in high school in socialism, ladies and gentlemen, that it was a whole name. But that other name just disappeared, because then it would be understood that it was the most disgusting form of collaboration with totalitarianism, that was the purpose of what was set up here. This was the path to the Slovenian tragedy we are facing here today. And to say that one crime is justifiable because it happened in World War II! No crime is excusable, ladies and gentlemen. Because you are terribly wrong, and history puts this in the right place sooner or later. To those who visually like to see red color, I will show you something else. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, enjoy the red color of the three socialists; Stalin, who has 60 to 100 million victims, Mao, who has about 50 to 100 million victims of conscience, Hitler, who has as a socialist from Germany, the leader of a national socialist working party, if you want, to know about between 20 and 50 million victims. All their victims are worth all the credit, and they're all the convictions. And nothing that happened during the war or after the war can be excused; it is only two faces of one and the same evil. Once we are all able to agree on this point, then this law will be appropriate and then reconciliation will be achieved, as some of you have talked about; not words or monuments, only acts. This leads to a fix.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u121	Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u122	I have some explanations to make. Initially, the law defines the following terms in the introductory part: the hidden war graves are the graves of the victims of war and post-war violence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which were hidden after World War II. Well, it's not just the graves, the hidden graves that were created during the war, but it's also the graves that were built after the war. Then, Mr Möderndorfer spoke about how the commission would not be paid, sometimes it bothered him, why the commission would be paid, now he says that it was unheard of that it wasn't paid Indeed, we slightly changed the definition of how the commission would be paid. [[…]] In the eighth indent of Article 4, we say: "Members of the Commission shall be entitled to the reimbursement of the costs incurred in the performance of the professional tasks and to the appropriate compensation for their actual work. The amount of the refund shall be fixed by decision of the Government." I believe that these benefits will not be exaggerated if the government determines them, but I advocate that every man who works honestly deserves a fair payment for this. If someone has been working for so many years, it is right for him to receive or work, for then he will do more responsibility, and he will have to answer for it if you are doing something voluntary, and you can stop doing so at any time. Several times there is a limited Commission; see, so far, the Commission has a consultative role and if someone has a consultative role, then what they say is taken into account or disregarded, respected or disrespected. It was tragic, in particular, because the Commission had worked hard, made proposals, and then the Ministry did not have the final results, nor did the epilogue come to an execution. That is why the Commission has a special status in our proposal, which, of course, works with the competent ministry. The Commission is also unable to invent something, and the Commission must draw up a work programme approved by the government and provide money for it. And if the government appoints a commission, of course, it can also resolve it – because I see that some have a great fear that this commission will now do everything in its own way. It consists of very varied, from experts from various fields, with representatives of the government, civil society, so, in particular, in order to work as professionally and as efficiently as possible. [[…]] This is the main purpose of why our proposal or the Commission has a different status in this proposal than it does now – because its work has not been taken into account. At the same time, however, we know that the experts at the Ministry do not know all the things that are going on in the field, or this commission, which will be composed of experts, but who knows things and will have to make some conclusions, because we would have to solve this problem in our own way. There are certain people who propose, we take everyone to Teharje, it's already done there and let all the bones be there. Others say put everyone in the grave pit, the third say in Maribor we will make a skeleton. The four say yes, but the Notranians won't go to Styrian or anything like that. And that's why we need a commission to make an expert decision on this. There are also different cases where different solutions are envisaged, because we cannot throw everything into the same basket because there are also different circumstances and victims. Somewhere you know exactly who is there — or not, it's hard to know, but it's supposed to be, it's not, there's mass graves somewhere, but there's a small cemetery somewhere. It is therefore important and necessary that in such cases someone should decide and that this is decided by a committee composed of experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u123	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to highlight some of the essential arguments that are necessary to understand the law itself and also to understand the historical consensus on the half-life of history that is urgently needed. Let me point out that before this year, the Austrian historian Alfred Elste and Wilhelm Wadl stressed in the book of Titus' Long Shadow, which was written on 816 pages that it happened in Yugoslavia called Klassen-Genozide, which was a genocide, a class genocide, a genocide of one class. Today and today you, Mr President, have been talking about the incredible genocide that happened in Srebrenica. Finally, this genocide was confirmed by two international war crimes courts, but was not confirmed by, say, the former Soviet Union or Russia, Russia today, which is very unusual. But I would like to stress what you said today and what has to do with these postwar tombs, that two days ago in a film you could watch on Slovenian TV about Srebrenica, one of the liquidators in The Hague, a member of the Bosnian Serb army, the lieutenant, an officer of this army said: "Also, in 1945, Yugoslavia killed hundreds of thousands, I speak to prisoners, and no one ever answered. Therefore, we believed that the tombs around Srebrenica would not be discovered until 50 years later, and then all will be forgotten." His next sentence, when asked again in The Hague, was: "We did not know that several months after Srebrenica will be the end of the war, and that foreigners on our land will dig up the bones and demand the punishment of those responsible." The same Bosnian Serb army lieutenant stressed the essential issue, which makes such laws as Nova Slovenija necessary. They're needed because these crimes were covered up. It was a genocide, not a military conflict, because this genocide did not happen only in the first days of May, but in early June 1945, it also happens in 1946 and it happens here until 1948. Yugoslavia had registered concentration camps until 1948, and in 1946 they were killed after the so-called democratic elections in Slovenia, particularly in the Slovenian Bistrica area, where they found abnormally poor electoral results in those quasi-elections, killed the next several thousand people. [[Incomprehensible]] So it's genocide and it's a continuation of genocide. So one genocide that somehow paid off to them, which was never punished, because the genocide was under the Great Soviet Union at the time. It was a cold war, and those crimes were never discovered. We are not engaged, and my answer is also my answer, 20 years of half-life, because the biggest crimes or the biggest discoveries of these crimes have been discovered, this is the Huda Cave of 2009, that is, only 6 years ago. Everything has been stopped since then. It was an explicit crime, a crime that was hidden, which was somehow closed with 12 walls, a crime where we found a number of victims, women, children who had nothing to do with military units, had nothing to do with collaboration. So it's a typical genocidal act and the detection of this and the rectification of the injustices of the victims, including a decent burial. I am sure that the discussion by colleague Tomić, which shows the spiritual disability of the work of Slovenian society and some quasi intellectuals, proves that Slovenia is far from reconciliation. However, the debate that a colleague from the SMC, who is a doctor of history, has shown that perhaps this reconciliation will come very soon. I'm sure every collaboration is an act that's been rejected. We have always stressed this in the SDS. The same collaboration that took place between communists and national socialists in 1939, August 23rd, as those Slovenian patriots at the end of 1944. We have no problem with this, but this second world war has ended on two sides, democratic and undemocratic. Charles De Gaulle, Konrad Adenauer, Schumann and Monet, all those who put up this Europe in which we live, set the democratic side of the winners of World War II. The undemocratic part, however, was made up of Stalin, Joseph Broz Tito, Dimitrov, and so on. This undemocratic part, however, has committed more crimes in these communist countries than have ever been committed by so - called Nazis and fascists. The problem is that these people never expected their own tribunal, their great tribunal for international crimes, and never were responsible for it. Therefore, Srebrenica with the same "modeus operandi" has been repeated. That's the whole point. Everything they do today in Srebrenica, that most victims are recorded, that they have their graves, that they have their monuments, that's something normal. It's a civilized act. This is something that many people, who have ever told jokes about Bosnians, today must ask whether it would not be better to tell jokes about Slovenians, about the spiritual disability of the work of Slovenian society that advocates these crimes and say that we should withdraw the amendment to Article 1. This points to what the entire European Council has condemned, except for rare exceptions. This has nothing to do with some left-wing policy, but it points to some extremely distasteful communist doctrine that has fuelled certain parties in Slovenia. And that has nothing to do with it. Any attempt on the part of a marriage that wishes to correct these injustices in any way and bury the victims must be welcomed. I have some of my own solutions and views on this marriage. I will not oppose this law, as I have already said at the meeting, I will not support it, but I will not be able to oppose this law because it shows some part of the solution that is urgently needed. I think we have quite a few common consensus in the debate on half-time history, so we don't have to argue here, at least a large part of us and some of the people I think have a democratic attitude and have zero tolerance for all crimes. The Slovenian Democratic Party has zero tolerance for all crimes, I stress once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u125	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I don't think we can bury the dead with fiery speech and hand-to-hand culling at this point, first of all, by putting our hands together, perhaps by putting our hands together. It saddens me that one of my colleagues or a colleague finds so many ways to criticize the applicants and another, a coalition, for example, but not so much peace within herself and so much open heart to consider what she might find in the bill. This amendment proposed by the colleague and colleagues of the United Left simply cannot be supported. This amendment actually deletes the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. What exactly is this European consciousness? What's your conscience? Yeah, maybe the Slovenes are closer to envy. Envy. But I'm not going to talk about envy, because I guess we're all very good at it. Unfortunately. What is consciousness? But consciousness is the ability of someone to be aware of their existence and their mental state. That's what this is about, colleagues and colleagues. The European Parliament adopted the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism by 553 votes. At that time, 630 MEPs and Members were present in the European Parliament. Only 5.2% abstained and 6.9% were against. And today we're building a story, and we're proposing a law that we want to review history. Come on! This is so over, it doesn't fit in this temple of democracy. You will not hear from any of New Slovenia and see that you would knock on your chest if we passed this law, which it passed – if it will, I do not know – the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall adopt the law, irrespective of who proposes it or who does not propose it. Talking about not needing this law because having the War Cemetery Act is wrong. You have to ask the children in kindergarten and they will explain to you that in fact the war graves need to be made and then the existing War Cemetery Act is included. That human remains are scattered into sixth and something, seven hundred maybe graves, these are not yet war graves. Actually, this marriage is just about to make a war grave. Colleagues and colleagues, 5 years of opening a large wound to Slovenia, the trench of St. Barbara. Human remains, hair of women and girls, dicks in plastic crates. That's terrible. And in five years, this country is unable to bury the remains of these people. We stand or sit in front of open graves, a few thousand of them just in the ditch of St. Barbara. And what did we do? We didn't do anything. If anyone asks if this marriage will save, bury these people, these human remains in the trench of St. Barbara, if she doesn't want to, she won't. Just a little will, if you want political will when it comes to marriage — we can do a lot. Here, as an opposition Member, I have to express my recognition, in fact, to the President of the National Assembly and probably also to the College and the Team of Experts, that, just today, when we are wearing these white flowers, she has placed this item on the agenda of the National Assembly. One more thing, colleagues and colleagues. How did a poet, a great artist, get buried a few hours ago? "You green valley, blood soaked, too dear, I will always love you, I will never forget you." Perhaps it is because of these verses that today’s debate may be less fiery, perhaps with more political will, with a more open heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u127	So you're still going to apply? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that after all the debates we have had at the time of the adoption of this law, from the first reading to today, it is clear from all the discussions that this is not a technical law. I think that technical law would not encourage such debates, would not encourage such severe blood, and we should actually talk about purely different things here and not about it. I think this is because it is simple already there, at the outset, some things have been corrected in this legislative process, but these two resolutions still appear in this Article, and in particular this one on European consciousness and totalitarianism. That is why we have proposed our amendment, which deletes these two resolutions, and this may in fact bring this law a little closer to it, to this technical salary, although still, even if you delete yourself, we will not achieve this. We are listening to how the European Parliament has adopted this resolution; the European Parliament can adopt many things; it has already adopted many resolutions, but we must also be clear that the European Parliament, like everyone else, has some power relations within it and exists in certain periods of position and times of opposition; it is said that it depends on who proposes who has the majority of votes and so on. It's pure parliamentary arithmetic. But speaking of European consciousness as one of the highest values I think, this same European Union is with this consciousness – in fact, we have seen recently, in the last few months – the loss of a similar type of crime or violence against its population, by walking the entire European peripheral to an even greater edge, by saving measures actually causes unsustainable conditions, precisely those that invoke human rights. [[…]] It is said that every citizen facing a high level of unemployment, poverty, cannot afford food and so on. This is your Europe and what European values are. So I think it is clear here that this resolution is not a high, high-level international legal act, but is just one of these resolutions and the European Parliament has already adopted many. Let me also say that the European Left has voted against this resolution in Parliament for similar reasons why we are against this resolution. Of course it's some kind of revisionism, I'll go on some other side. We oppose this resolution and therefore delete it from this law because it is based on some conceptually flawed assumption. In short, it puts on one side the ideal of Western parliamentary democracy as the culmination of civilization, and on the other, as a result of the end of World War II and the establishment of a cold war, it puts on some terrible totalitarianism that is all the same. Of course, we recognize that both fascism and Nazism as well as attempts to build socialism, as some have mentioned, have been flawed. They were also largely problematic with different aspects, but we cannot agree to putting all these forms of government in one basket and putting them against this so-called parliamentary democracy. This same parliamentary democracy, which is the ideal of Western civilization and which is at the heart of this European consciousness, produced Vietnam, produced Iraq, produced Afghanistan, still maintains things in Palestine and so on. And if we're talking about selection, then we're also talking about this selection, how many of these crimes are being committed by these Western parliamentary democracies you're counting. Thus, the deletion of both resolutions is simply a simple step that seeks to bring this debate around this law in fact a little closer to becoming technical. Of course he won't, but he's trying to do it in part. Here support for this amendment means, in fact, two or only two variants; if this amendment is supported, it is trying to make this law a little more technical and remove this dilemma that is emerging, this dilemma of ideology that we are now listening to for some time now when we are addressing this point. On the other hand, it means not supporting this amendment and supporting the law as such a kind of historical revisionism, which is hypocritical. We've heard about this hypocrisy today, but this hypocrisy is the other way around. That is to say, what I have already mentioned: on the one hand, we want to demonize certain things and allow the same things on the other hand. As long as the European Union and this European consciousness are based on the fact that it is right to oppress and exploit its Member States and its inhabitants, we will therefore never be able to achieve what is desired here by such resolutions. This is becoming clearer today. Today's Europe is increasingly supporting such extreme and fascist movements, allowing them, of course, not reflecting some wrong moral values, but simply reflecting that we are back in some serious crisis of capitalism, which, of course, ultimately produces this – fascism. This has been shown several times in history, and I fear that it will happen again today. If we support this House today and allow this very resolution, which, in its own way, permits these things, such things as are happening in Ukraine today, where it is planned, the laws prohibit what some would probably want to achieve here, the use of the word communism, and are in fact prohibited from mentioning Russia, and even closer, in Hungary; in Greece, the Golden Dawn, which threatens as an evil fantasy, I do not think we can talk at this stage about the goals that this law is trying to achieve. As long as we agree to such a Europe, we will not be able to do so. However, I would very much like to hear or draw attention to some unconsistency that appears here on the side of the coalition and the government, which we have heard in part today. Both government opinions, both in this law and in the opinion on the resolutions, are in some way ambiguous, particularly with regard to the law we are currently considering. In some ways, the government does not support the adoption of this law, but would not like to open ideological issues. Secondly, she was very specific about the resolution, which she did not support and she made clear why. Thus today we have not heard the government's definition of this amendment; for the last time, there was not much government position on the committee even before the law itself, so I would urge them here to give some response, to know what we are: whether this idea of a deal, of another law, is justified. On the other hand, I would also like to refer to the coalition the same question as to how these resolutions may not, on the one hand, support and strongly reject and, on the other hand, allow it in this law. In short, what's going on here is actually just that we're trying to get through some law that I think is wrong in its mind and will not make any contribution to this place. I doubt it's because there's another law in play that we're going to talk about tomorrow. I hope that the fiscal rule law is not passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u129	Procedural? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. After all these discussions, which take place at this point or around this amendment, I would politely ask the Government to ask what its position is on the amendment table. In fact, an important part of the discussion is going on and on about this point of what is right and what is wrong, what might be written and what is not in this law, because this is just the point at which the government should define itself to the amendment table. I think there is no need to discuss the amendment, the government is waiting until the end, three representatives are here and no one is saying a word after about two hours of discussion on this amendment. I know he can make his own decision, but I think it would make a lot easier in the National Assembly to see what the Ministry of Labour's position on this amendment is, what the government's position on this amendment is, and perhaps it will be easier for the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u131	Certainly, with regard to access to the word, the government has the opportunity to define itself at any time, I do not intend to specifically call on it. So I give my word to Mr. Urosh Prick.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I will not call on the government here, I will just read a piece of what the government has written down that it does not want to open up to those who promote ideological warfare and create new divisions. This is clearly stated to me so that it can be understood what is the position of the government or of the departmental ministry. Of course, I don't want to praise or magnify the government's views and roles here, because, you all know, I am a bit critical of the government forever and everywhere, so here too, but I think the government has written down its own. But she'll probably tell you about the amendment. My position on the amendment of the United Left is, of course, so that I will support such an amendment, because I do not think it belongs in this law, which governs one of the more specific areas of action. It grieves me that this debate touches on some ideological struggle between the left, right, among ours among yours. I don't think that's the purpose of the law itself. Can I finish? Thank you. Here I would be more specific, in so doing the Government would be subject and the competent institutions would be called upon to adopt a concrete and binding operational plan for the regulation of war graves. Another time. Sufficient financial resources shall be provided to the budget of the State. Third time. It shall be properly organised and, where appropriate, strengthened by a service for war graves, which shall operate at the Ministry of Labour, which shall also have adequate and sufficient powers to do its work. Next. Set clear limits of jurisdiction between the service for war graves and the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issue of hidden graves. Next. To check how municipalities, i.e. the local community, can carry out tasks relating to war graves and the protection of monuments and memorials and appropriate measures are taken. Next. Ensure that the Institute for Recent History will be able to complete the register and analysis of the Slovenian deaths of World War II. Next. They shall undertake all competent authorities and services to carry out their tasks in the field of war graves with priority, efficiency and full responsibility and shall inform the National Assembly accordingly and continuously. I will repeat the thinking of those debaters in front of me who have talked about the unnecessary use of this law. This law is unnecessary for a simple reason because the existing War Cemetery Act regulates the whole matter that this law also regulates. Here we have three types of dualism. First of all, we have two ministries regulating this area. Secondly, we have two laws regulating this area. Thirdly, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also pointed out that there are certain powers between the State, i.e. between the Ministry, and the Commission, undefined or not well defined. I like to believe and sincerely believe the proposaler in good faith that he has embarked on this project, but once and for all, we will settle this area, but, in my opinion, it is not the right path, in my firm opinion. Of course, it is not worth losing words here that all such acts are committed when people are killed without some processes and are not only deprived of their rights, but also taking lives that they are rejected acts and everyone, I will say, normal people distance themselves from it. But this law will not contribute to reconciliation, for no law will achieve it. We need to be clear in our head, and we need to clear our heads. I am also afraid that this law will not contribute to making ideological divisions between us or withdraw from the political agenda. All these are, of course, the reasons that prevent me from doing this again, that I cannot and of course I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u133	He's got the word. [[...]] Gradually, Mrs. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President! I would just like to ask you to warn the debaters when they discuss in their debates that we are not talking about ideological issues today. Today we are talking only about first-class issues related to respect for human rights, respect for human dignity and respect for victims. These aren't ideological questions. These are purely basic civil issues. And I would ask you not to say that this is an ideology. That's what I think we should grow up. Otherwise, I must say that today's debate shows something else; that speaking of combat, this is not ideological, but it is a great fight of values. What values are displayed in this national assembly? Mr President, once again, I would like to ask that the debaters really be reminded that today this debate is not an ideological debate because it cannot be. It's a civil debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u135	I'll take the day off. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u136	Dear colleagues and [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u137	Do not discuss with me when he has the word [[…]] The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u138	Dear colleagues! This is an extremely important topic, a topic that is clouding our future, so it would be important that we do our utmost to finally remove all the obstacles that burden us so that we can run faster into the future. Today there was a lot of talk about Srebrenica, a huge parallel we can draw between Srebrenica and the event in May 1945 and later. Perhaps the only difference is that the situation in Srebrenica can be more embossed in our memory, because there are audiovisual recordings from that time, which in some ways give us even more intense excitement about what is actually happening. But I hope we all know together that what happened after 1945 is two times what happened in Srebrenica, if we're just talking about numbers. We have before us a technical law that does not legitimize reconciliation, a reconciliation cannot be legalized, but it creates a technical basis for the reconciliation process to happen at all. That's essential. I don't want to be rude today, but some emailed me, if I can warn my colleague Möderndorfer that there is no need to create a circus from every subject and that there is no need to say anything in a calm way. Mr Möderndorfer asked us, he said to bury these victims once, because we all have a positive attitude to this. If it's that simple, why didn't it happen? If this is so simple that we all have a positive attitude toward the fact that it is a civil code, that once the victim is finally buried – why is this not done? Why is there still 600 graves in Slovenia that are disorderly? And those of you who are opposers who are no longer in this room today or who are leaving, answer a very simple question. If this area is properly regulated, why do we still have 600 unsettled hidden graves? This is the basic question to which you must find the answer. If you find an answer to that, then I can understand that you are opposed to this law. Otherwise, on your part, it is just speculation and political prestige and absolutely nothing else. My colleague Möderndorfer also asked if we would solve the problem of the Hude Cave. I don't know if you know it, but for now it is in Slovenia, where more than 600 hidden graves are arranged or have the status of a military cemetery under the current laws of only three, including the Huda Cave. This law, which we are adopting today, will only mean that these covered graves will lead to the status of a military cemetery, and from here on, the current law will continue. So there's no problem. A severe pit will be arranged as it would if this law were in force, even if there were no such existing law, because it already has the status of a war cemetery. Then the European resolution on totalitarianism. It's a big deal about that. The United Left has proposed an amendment. You know, this is just an amendment just for politicization and for the netting of ideological disputes. Let us be very precise and technical. See, in the first article of each law, the principles of this law and what the law refers to are expressed in some way. Among other things, it is not only this resolution, but also other resolutions, and it is European. Now those of you who have such problems with this European resolution ask you very simple things what it says in there. That it is necessary to preserve the memory of Europe's tragic past in order to "honor the victims, condemn the perpetrators and lay the foundations for reconciliation based on truth and memory". Is that a problem for you? With that? It's that troubled resolution. Keep reading. "Because from the point of view of the victims, it doesn't matter which regime deprived them of freedom, torture or murder for any reason." Let's honestly ask ourselves, this is a text that bothers you, which we refer to. I do not understand you, and I hope that those who have such problems with this resolution will tell you exactly which part of the text is bothering you. Today, as I said, we lay the foundations for reconciliation, we do not make it legal. Matjaž, I know this is a painful topic for you, but I will be very precise and specific. This law removes bureaucratic obstacles. I don't know how many of you have read this law. I know that his colleagues from the SMC read it very carefully, particularly Mr Horvat. Everyone else, and I think, especially on this side, you're very thoughtful. If we were to talk to the members of the commission, then we could see that the problem of the current law, when you say that it is perfectly right, is that three different laws are in conflict with each other in some way. One is the War Cemetery Act, then the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the Penal Code. These are three laws that conflict with each other and are also a fundamental reason why this problem has not been settled today. This law does not change history, does not interpret it, but removes bureaucratic obstacles and therefore I say we lay the foundations for reconciliation. Take a look at the footage of Srebrenica, what the fuck are they talking about? They forgave the bloodbaths long ago, but they want to find at least a piece of their husband, their son, to finally bury him. This is also what the relatives in Slovenia want; to get a piece of their loved ones and finally to bury them with dignity. And that's what will make reconciliation possible, not what we're going to be Parliamenting in here, not what we're going to be negotiating, but just in a way that's going to be a normal process. I'm concluding because I'm running out of time to have my colleagues behind me. I only have two requests. [[…]] Two requests. One is a request to colleagues from the SDS and the other is a request to colleagues from the opposition and the coalition who oppose this law. Request to colleagues from SDS: If Slovenia were normal, then I would understand your position and also support it that in a normal country you do not need a new law to bury the dead. You're right. You have a point. But since you also claim and you know that Slovenia is not a normal country, I sincerely ask you to support such a law and allow us to remove these bureaucratic obstacles. Some colleagues, Mr Breznik, Mrs Irgle, have been discussing fantastically, and I hope that this will eventually turn into support. I think that, too, I will say, our part of the electoral pool will reward our cooperation and your support. I sincerely ask for your support. He also asks his colleagues in the opposition, the United Left, SD and Desus position. I understand your position that perhaps from the point of view of your electoral base this is not the most pleasant thing, especially if something is proposed by Nova Slovenija, and especially if it is history, because it may already be wrong, if something is proposed by Nova Slovenija and if something else is related to history, then it is automatic on the wrong side. Therefore, I sincerely ask that when we remove bureaucratic obstacles and open the way to at least abstain from this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u139	Before I put my word forward, I'd still say two things. The first is to ask you not to disturb others while they speak. And the second is that I owe a procedural answer, so why can't I alert people to the ideology of the debate. Because values and emotions are both at the back of the word civilization and ideology. Unfortunately, this cannot be avoided, and if the debate is at least in a calm tone, I hope it is acceptable at least. For the time being, the debate is civil, and I hope it will remain until the end. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. I was kind of counting on today's opening address by the President of the National Assembly before the opening of the meeting, when he very respectfully remembered the victims of Srebrenica, what would help us today's debate. But apparently in part of the political space, this gesture of yours did not fall to fertile ground, on the contrary. If, in his introductory address, Mr President, for example, were to replace Srebrenica with Teharja, Kočevský Horn, Konfin, the Great Cave, if he had changed "20 years ago" to "70 years ago", if instead he had said that we had stone stones to warn of victims and unacceptable acts in Srebrenica, he would have said that there was no such thing in Slovenia, and perhaps not much else, then it would have been the position that applies to Slovenia today. This introductory address with these corrections to your emphasis should probably be given every June, when we recall many events in postwar killings. We missed it this year. We can have a special day on August 23rd, an agreement of communism and Nazism on the sharing of the world. It would be high time for the President of the National Assembly to also mark the victims of Slovenian genocide, Slovenian war and postwar events with a minute of silence. That's not what the National Assembly has done. This year, however, we have marked many or some resolutions related to genocide. I propose, Mr President, that on the first opportunity you do what is necessary to address the National Assembly and devote a minute of silence to the victims who have also happened on our soil. This is probably what Parliament and politics owes to the Slovenian people. I wonder why the Bosnians can place every victim they identify, a monument, every victim, and the Slovenians can't do that after 70 years. It is not a problem of law, it is not a problem of notes or anything, it is simply a problem of civilization, of culture, of relation to innocent victims, of genocide and so on. We have to do this. We don't need any laws. It's already the Funeral Activities Act that makes it possible. If, for example, you find a victim anywhere, there is a court-martial. If an offence is found to have been committed, an investigation procedure shall be initiated. Automated. And the investigation is going on for as long as things don't open up. Why don't we do it? What prevents such civil, forensic, or investigative action? Nothing. The blockade that's going on, the Ministry won't even respond to the things we set up. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out. The Nazis and communism were formally linked from 23 August 1939 to 22 June 1941. A third of wartime had a formal pact. They must have been connected informally even longer because these discussions on this cut-off agreement on Poland had already taken place much earlier. Those who skip this period and remind others of revisionism, you probably have neither fair nor pure intentions. And because of me, those people who say that can also be historians. It's a lie, easy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u141	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members, distinguished Members, comrades! I fear that one of the fundamentals of today's debate on the second reading of the law is described in one single expression: ignorance, ignorance; and ignorance, of course, prejudices and prejudices of judgment, instigation, manipulation, interpretation, discreditation. I'm sorry. This time, too, and on this fundamental issue that we have. I fully agree and my voice is shaking because it is difficult to speak and draw the attention of those who are here after such an eminent speaker. But I am pleased that Comrade Tomic has returned so that I can answer some of the questions she has asked her. Why am I claiming to be ignorant? Mr. Tonin said before: "I hope at least someone has read this law." I hope, too, that I'm not the only one I've read to the last comma and dot. Hence, of course, many can think of something that has not been read and that is why laziness has fundamentally moved man, so perhaps a large part of progress, as our poet Ježek says, is probably also laziness that leads us to an easier path. With some prejudice, we judge every thing that we see, rather than naturally following logical thought pathways. I absolutely respect any doubt which is, of course, justified and which is the basis for determining whether we can methodologically, methodically come to an end to illogicality and that we can listen to what the interlocutor actually wants to say. I'm responding to your challenge. First and foremost, if we were to monitor or read, I also answered your colleague, Mr Vatovac, on the working body of my mother, but he was not, unfortunately, when I answered the same questions. So forgive all those who will consider this a repetition, because I will repeat some things and add some new ones. Why do I say ignorant? In the beginning, you say, "through the back door, Article 1 clearly shows its purpose: to introduce historical revisionism..." Why is that clear? I don't know. It goes beyond my thinking ability. And I shall, of course, refer to holy forgiveness." ... because it refers to two resolutions which have a clear intention of imposing a right-wing view of history." So, I must strongly protest against such instigation, against such distortions and say that there is no way of hiding here the grading of the national liberation fight, but you are simply needlessly involved in the content of this law a national liberation fight. Two of my old dads were partisans. There is no connection between this law and national liberation. One of them was the victim of the torture of the regime because he helped the workers to dress their children and allow them to carry some goods from the factory. The national liberation fight has nothing to do with this. The national liberation fight is what it is. No one has ever been involved in it, and we are absolutely not talking about it here in this law. But I must repeat once again what I find in the law, which I am glad that since 2003 and 2009 you have grown to your heart and that you are ready to implement it, because this would solve many problems and we should not be dealing with these issues again today. Article 4 speaks of the graves of war victims after the war on dead. "The tombs of the victims of war are also graves of persons who were associated with II. World War II after 15. 5. 1945 in contravention of the principles and rules of the rule of law after conviction or after an out-of-court procedure executed by the authorities or representatives of the then authority in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia." If this has been recognised since 2003, 2009, why continue to hide. Therefore, before I move on to other things, I absolutely reject the instigation that the resolution itself wants to level the regimes of the 20th century, Nazism, Fascism and communism. And this is for my taste a completely wrong interpretation. Nobody evens out these forms of totalitarian regimes. However, we condemn such conduct, regardless of what it is called, whose idea or purpose violence is used. Of course, NOB and Yugoslav socialism are our common history, of course, of course! Not even about this law is there an empty and bubbling historical generalization. If I skip a bit - "that this law could mean the introduction of so-called historical revisionism, that is, the re-direction of the assessment of half-lived history, even the unintentional equation of the national liberation struggle and its acquisitions with the Nazi and fascist system and the collaboration" - I am sorry, for the very accurate reading and after many hours I have dedicated to this law, I have never heard anything like it. In this place, you say you want a special answer to the question – first of all, of course, we are a central party who does not want to be ideologically defined. I understand that our space is filled with the fact that it is free of color, smell and taste, if you do not stand on any side, if there is no blood running, if you do not condemn someone, if you try to create conditions, that people can live freely and responsibly with respect for human rights, with all the same possibilities, I do not say equality, because I constantly repeat that, thank God, we are different, and this is of course the idea of liberalism. Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. What is our position on this resolution? You're saying we turned her down. It is not true, we have not yet adopted a resolution on the Committee, but we have adopted a resolution on the resolution. We rejected the resolution, not the resolution. We respect both our own and, of course, the European legal order and the documents adopted. It's not nearly true that we don't want to define ourselves ideologically, but if it's not extreme, then it means that some people don't have an ideological definition. We are doing our best, and that is why we have entered politics to make a fundamental change. How do we explain the fact that we support the law based on Article 1? It's very simple, like I said. If we want to say what we have in mind – this is something that I particularly commended the applicants – it is a rare one, I can even say a sample example of what Article 1 should look like to tell what the law is meant for. The existing law, I seek and seek if I take Article 1. I can find that this law regulates the protection of war graves in the Republic of Slovenia. Under the terms of this law, the military graves, the graves of war victims, and the graves of war victims — after the war of the dead — are the burial places of the graves. None of what the proposer wanted to arrange, none of what we have ahead of us, asking for support and going from one parliamentary group to another to seek the support he is looking for today. Of course, I am joining his requests, initiatives and I believe that after today's debate we will find another common language, because such fundamental issues of our society are very important if they remain hidden, if they are not to be discussed, and if they are immediately labelled with some exaggerations, interpretations, manipulations, discredits, if we want to go beyond that. You said if we wanted to have a healthy mind, we could only support your amendment or vote against the law. I'm sorry. You didn't give us any choice. All you're saying here is that if we accept your idea, your view, your solution, we'll be in our right mind, otherwise we won't. I'm sorry, I'm happy to remain unhealthy in my mind, and I vote in a different way than you have suppressed us as you suggested, so that we can do this. If I conclude, I regret that you continue to repeat genocide in relation to this resolution. This, I'm sorry, is a similar story to giving other meanings that we're not talking about. As we've communicated so far, we've said. Of course, we have been in trials and reconciliation for more than thirty years. It's not a one-time act, I'm always here, and I'm going to point out it's a process. But the foundation stone that you can go into the process is first of all to stop hiding these facts and I'm glad that some people have said that they have carefully documented everything that happened in connection with post-war executions, like the real law, or the killings happened. This will, of course, be for all those who fear, what huge resources we will need to implement this law, because this will, of course, shorten the processes if we know where these graves are, who are the victims, who are dead and whose remains are in that place. Of course, it won't solve all the questions. There's never any marriage. Otherwise, we wouldn't have laws that have all kinds of changes and amendments to the law. But forgive me, with all due respect, to all who have contributed that the War Cemetery Act is as it is, and perhaps also out of respect for it, and clearly because it has not brought the desired result, the proposaler has no choice but to try this way. If you take time to consider that you will at least fly through the law and its contents quickly, you will find that it solves issues that the War Cemetery Act does not solve and that even to this extent it respects the law in force, that at the point where it brings the procedure to the applicable provisions of the War Cemetery Act, of course it is going to apply the War Cemetery Act and from there it does not regulate matters differently. Moreover, you will find this in the first article if you take so much effort to at least read: "The War Cemetery Act applies to the issues of hidden war graves, which are not otherwise regulated by this law". So we are not changing anything, and there was nothing different, and I hope today, heartily, that the additional arguments presented today will convince you that at the end of the day you will only take, as Mrs Tomić says, a healthy or healthy smart decision, so that you will fully support the law as it is prepared. Because, of course, we all agree at the declaration level that this issue needs to be settled and that in some cases, if possible, family members should also come to space. That's not what I heard last week, that one lady who knows that it's not allowed to talk about it and doesn't talk about it today at 90 years of age because she knows she can't talk about it, she just put her mother's name on it and she's going to light a candle to some stone, to some grave. With this, she lives relatively calmly, but she will surely be overjoyed if she can find out where her mother’s remains are, so that she can actually dig into her family’s grave and, of course, light a candle in a suitable place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u143	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u144	Before I became a member of the Slovenian Parliament, I had this happiness and opportunity to be a member of the European Parliament for five years. Now I will do what I have often seen and heard when I sat in the European Parliament and the Members praised each other, even though someone came from another political group if someone did something good and appropriate. I also thank my colleague Mitja Horvati and my colleague Simoni, who worked very intensively with us when we tried to turn those comments into amendments by the Law and Law Services and were actually looking for concrete, logical, clear solutions. Thank you very much for all the work, along with my professional co-worker, I thank all three of you very much, for we have really come to this well-intentioned and in the desire to fulfill and improve the law. But I will also talk about this resolution or about what Mr Vatovec said earlier. He said that such a resolution was adopted as a coalition there in the European Parliament. There are no coalitions in the European Parliament at all. Otherwise, some connections are forming for a question, but if 530 Members confirmed this resolution, then this coalition was very, very broad, only 5% abstention and 6% vs. You are also all members of some political groups in the Slovenian Parliament. This resolution has therefore received broad political support in the European Parliament. Just as some of you may not have read this law in detail, and because of this there have been some such performances that are actually contrary to what the law says, you may not have read the resolution of the European Parliament. I'll read only two of the points. You could read more because it's worth reading. Let's say in "i": "Because European integration was initially a response to the suffering caused by two world wars and the Nazi tyranny that led to the Holocaust and the spread of totalitarian and non-democratic communist regimes in Central, Eastern Europe, there was also a way to overcome deep divisions and hostility in Europe through cooperation, integration, the end of war and the provision of democracy in Europe". And the point "k" is: "Because Europe will not be united if it is unable to create a unified view of its history, unless it recognises Nazism, Stalinism and fascist and communist regimes as a common legacy, and if it does not carry out fair and in-depth discussions on their crimes in the previous century." This is only a response to what Mr Vatovec said when he said, your Europe, your Europe. I think this is our Europe, and as long as our people are looking for employment, because unfortunately in Slovenia they don't get a job, but in this Western Europe, not in Greece, which is an example for some here, then I will believe in this Europe. As long as our entrepreneurs tell me how they pay regularly in this Europe and how in Germany they can only make progress because they export there because they do not get paid or are not big enough in Slovenia, and do not talk about how they are paid regularly in Greece, I will believe in this Europe and the European Union, which is not ideal, but it is the answer to everything that has happened in wartime, that is, the desire for cooperation, for peace, to build the future together. That is why this Europe is still a symbol of democracy of peace and respect for human rights. One more thing that Mr. Prikl spoke about earlier. You were talking about how this law is not necessary, how we already have an existing law, and then you listed a whole series of measures that you would suggest that this law be implemented. The law speaks of war graves, our law provides for procedures until a grave becomes recorded in a registry and is a war grave. What you mentioned before is, in some way, we are proposing in this law. Croatia also had a special law on this, so it is nothing special because there was a similar problem. Mr Möderndorfer is now again present, who is apparently losing his temper several times in this House. I am pleased that the Lord has such a good memory that he constantly teaches us something and criticises our mistakes. I told you earlier that the commission will be paid, but the fee will be set by the Government. The law must therefore be read, the completed version, and then you will also get some answers, where so far you have misinterpreted certain solutions because they are different in marriage. Well, the commission's getting paid. Read it, I think it's the eighth indent of Article 4 and you'll see this solution. Mr. Prikl said that our path was not the right one. Then I wonder which one's the real one. Which one's the real one? I think we have done a lot to get all the parties to cooperate, to work together to find solutions, so that this could really be our 'accomplishment' or a contribution to reconciliation in Slovenia or to solving this problem, but unfortunately some of you have always found new excuses why it would not be good to support it. I invite you once again, perhaps in the course of the debate, and even in remembering the events in Srebrenica, you have only slightly changed your mind, because I am sure that the voters you represent also want the dead to be buried. As a result of a television poll, 87% of people are in favour of solving this problem. So help your constituents as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u145	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that today there is almost no Member who would not bear this flower as a memory, the mark of Srebrenica. When I was outside, where a book is also available, with a traveling flower for impressions, support, convictions of crime, I feel that after 70 years we are still unable to bear a similar flower for our own people. I wonder if it would be the same number bearing a flower in memory of all the slain who lie in hidden graves. Would you be able to write respectful words to all victims in this congregation? Sometimes I'm on this committee and I see a lot of comments on the ballots. I don't know if we could be so respectful. Why marriage is needed, we've been talking for months now. Some are firmly on their trenches, that we do not need it, that everything is fine with the existing law. I don't know, maybe we should be the right people in this ministry to make the marriage possible. But we know what it's like to know who the people in this department are. Clearly, it's the human factor that doesn't get things done. And after 70 years. I hope you all have the intention of burying these victims, because, finally, some of the fighters in the meeting last week, and they said, bury everything, give them the right to the grave and give them peace. But we can't deal here, and we're looking for what Europe is to blame, from the resolution, and I don't know what else. I went to look at the birth anniversary of those who oppose and say what Europe is to blame. You could say that these years say that they have never met that we used to have a problem in the former system as well as family with sugar, that there was no such thing as washing powder. I think that Europe and the policy of Europe are working for the well-being of all people, as is our law and the New Slovenia Group of Members. We want to work for the good of all people, so we've moved away from some ideological stuff. We wanted to make a law that could lead matters without negotiation, without the media being present, so that the media could abuse this part to warm up the ideological struggle in the Slovenian nation. Technical law with clearly defined matters of the Commission. I've heard many times, even when we were on TV with my colleagues, about two ministries. What's the problem? We do have other laws that make things touch each other at two or three ministries, and if we want, things work out. I am acting alone in the welfare of the country, the welfare of the Slovenian people, because we have been elected. And I don't see any problems. But I'm afraid we have to distance ourselves from this ideology. Because you know what it means to distance yourself? We are distanced from everything in Slovenia. We don't know any more things to talk about. Everyone's abusing something. So let's leave the bank holes, let's get a distance. We don't know who's in there and everything. Each matter is in terms of being distanced. What do we do in the end? One distant people without any clear will, without any awareness of what is right for the state and for the citizens. We can't because we all meet our constituents and they all tell us what's wrong with them. I can't say, but I'm moving away from your problem. That's why we're sitting here. I also do not agree with the issue of the need to provide sufficient financial resources, because some also abuse financial resources. They abuse the weakness of those with the lowest pensions and say they will once have a thousand euros in pensions. Again, we're in the middle of sufficient funding. In short, we're 70 years after.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u147	My friend Jani Möderndorfer, what do you want? [[advertising from the hall]] The debate later, okay. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I had been silent today, I would probably have done more, but I just can't because we spent two and a half hours on this technical law, but we had three important laws before, and we got them out in an hour. For a technical law with relatively few articles that don't say anything about an ideology that doesn't share a nation, but we talk for two hours. That's really interesting. Now, on the one hand, the United Left insists that if anyone accidentally thought to support this law, everything would be wrong with it. Matthew Tonin says that this is the basis for reconciliation, this technical law is the basis for reconciliation. Mitja Horvat tells her own way, then everyone still performs so beautifully, emotionally, Jani Möderndorfer almost cracks. I have to say, I'm a little confused about this whole thing. Matthew, come on in. If this marriage is the basis for reconciliation, then you have missed out a lot in life. And I can't tell you much because you did one step with our Matjak Germans, and I said hello. But this marriage is not the basis for reconciliation. If this law were the basis for reconciliation, then your party wishing to have dominance in this law would have to make a substantial effort to cooperate as closely as the SMC did. If perhaps, at the first stage, your party's president, whom I appreciate, could make a little effort in that direction, but to reform the old law, but we are recasting and moving forward with this payment, we would be genuinely involved. Why am I talking like that? It's like the previous marriage didn't do any good. The former law has done much good since its amendment in 2009. We took some important steps in this law and wrote down some important things, of course it was broader, and I remember then that they voted in favour of that law by the then complete coalition, the People's Party, the SDS was then obstructed, but there they were written in addition to all those articles which must be written in the law, and some others would like to read them. And that's where some reconciliation went. It is also written that in Ljubljana a monument is set up for all victims of war and wars related to the dedicated inscription of Oton Župančič: Homeland is one, we are all assigned, one life and one death. When our President of the Republic and me at a symbolic level after 70 years of celebration, when this monument begins to build, no offense, but I didn't see any of the right ones there. But I saw representatives of NOBs, church dignitaries, and some others. If you want to get out of here, you have to be honest. You can't have a fig under the table, but you have to be honest. I've been able to do this in my place as mayor of that time. Then it was also written in the previous law that for the remains of those who would not have a separate burial place or grave, the central tomb would be placed on the area of the Tehar Memorial Park. He predicted different texts of the consecrated nature at the graves, with the victims of war and revolutionary violence, the Republic of Slovenia, writing at the graves of civilian victims of war and death. He predicted that it would be possible for his family to transfer the postmortems to another grave at the same or another cemetery, to determine more precisely the recording of war graves and could even list them. What else did the previous marriage bring? You're talking about 600 recorded hidden military graves. The previous law allowed 600 of them to be recorded. 185 were probed, 60 were overstretched and exhumed. It is true, however, that, at our first meeting with Mrs Novakova, we have found that these 600 graves, except for two, are not recorded in the register. It is also true that at the time of the previous marriage, or I do not know why, and I would also like to hear it from you once, it did not go any further, but it was our opinion that we could in some way amend it. And then all of us would have one sincere intention of reforming the law, and we would have the same goals. All I'm saying is that I don't want to get kicked in now if I'm against a technical law or if I have concerns about this technical law, that I'm not comfortable, that I'm some communist, that I'm talking to my constituents, and so on. I regularly attend all the fighting celebrations, go to mass sometimes, celebrate those Christian celebrations, our holidays, and many other things. But don't push us where you want to push us. I also disagreed with the first performance and was frozen at the first performance of my colleague from the United Left. Because I knew where this debate was going because I saw Mr Branko Grimes' hair grow back then. It wasn't right, and we saw where we came from. If it were a technical law, we'd be done in 12 minutes, which we're up against, and we'd be home by now. However, since the purposes of this law are others, the debate is as it is. When you're all really starting to talk about this mess together in this room, I'll be the first one to talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u149	Replica, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u150	My colleague Han misunderstood my work when he said that the previous law or the existing law had done nothing. He has also done a number of good things, but there are still certain bureaucratic obstacles. I said that the three laws were at odds with each other: the Penal Code, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, and the Law on Cemetery. These are three laws that make it impossible for us to take any step faster. But I did not say that the present law did absolutely nothing — three hidden graves are registered. It's under one thing he misunderstood. Under two, colleague Han, I'm not forcing you to be in.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u151	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u152	I honestly asked you only to be abstinent. That's all I asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u153	Before I reopen my application list, I give the first word to Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u154	Mr. Han, I would very much like you to wait a little longer for me to respond to your concerns. True, I came to you at the beginning, too, but to some I could not at all prove that we are not breaking the existing law, but that the existing law would need so many corrections that it is more reasonable to make a new law that does not end it, but leads things to the moment that the hidden grave becomes a war grave. I know that the Eminent member of the SD wrote, was the first signatory, the one who took care of this War Cemetery Act, I don't know what to say, and that's why you're keeping him very safe. We're not shutting him down. We upgrade or process all that we need to make a hidden tomb a war grave. You did not want to hear this, you did not want to accept it, and so there were no further steps to be taken to complete this law together. Because SMC alone has shown willingness and willingness to do so, we have taken further steps with them. I don't know what the name of this ceremony was, which is supposed to be a monument once. It's true, I was on vacation in those days around this date, and I didn't see that invitation, but when I found out about it, I had another obligation, an emergency, and that's why I didn't go. However, I have repeatedly expressed my position, as I hear from the relatives of these victims, that the dead must be buried, that these crimes must be condemned, and then together we will set up a monument. I want to follow such a path, because if we put up a monument and we don't clean it up below, this monument won't have any validity. Despite the good will of some who want to build it. It is necessary to take a few steps earlier, and this monument must be the crown of all this. Then all the people on the one hand and on the other hand will be willing to respect him, and it will be a monument that will serve something. I don't know why it didn't come up. It is true that 600 tombs have been recorded, as Dr Mitja Ferenc said. Unfortunately, further procedures were not carried out and in 2009 when the Great Cave was discovered, things were largely stopped. And since then, it's been six years. The bones are still there. Why aren't things over? I don't have a reason for this, but the Ministry has to say why the procedures haven't continued. And Dr. Mitja Ferenc says that he who recorded that even though they showed him where the graves were supposed to be, he is no longer certain of many and does not know where he is, because the situation in nature is changing. There the forest grows, there it falls, the trees fall down, there the storms break something, there they start to build something, and therefore it is now high time that however where there are still witnesses, where it is possible to determine where this hidden cemetery is, all the necessary procedures are carried out. We do not abolish the War Cemeteries Act, but we complement this matter because these supplements are needed to make it easier to realize. Without political will, of course, this law will not bring things to fruition. However, I believe that in all of us it is the belief that these graves must be settled, because in all of us there is the belief that this is a basic civil standard and that if both the President of the Government and the President of the State support it, it will be political enough for this to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u155	I'm reopening the application. Please sign up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u156	Dearly beloved, you have chosen the wrong person to tell her what she reads and reads too little. But I know the following that after this debate I believe even less in your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u157	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I too have little time left, but I am obliged to say why we are opposed to this European resolution. This law is not of a technical nature. If he were of a technical nature, we'd support him. The resolution, you say, was adopted by a democratic Europe. You know, this democratic Europe leaves the rise of fascism at this moment. This democratic Europe also looked calmly when, after the break-up of Yugoslavia, it was surrounded by Sarajevo for four years when concentration camps were in the heart of Europe when Muslim women were raped when women and children were killed. And today this democratic Europe is talking about this resolution. For us, that's unacceptable. Ever since the Cold War, America has used a great deal of political power and financial power to prove how undemocratic communism is in Russia and how wonderful democracy is in America. We never lived that communism. Good luck. But our arrangement, which we had, protected the very fact that such ethnic groups were protected, that Srebrenica should never have happened and could not have happened. It is therefore unacceptable today to manipulate the victims in Srebrenica in any way, because a democratic, civilized Europe has looked away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u159	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the many things that have already been said today, unfortunately I was unable to listen to everything, but I would, however, focus on the issue of financial resources. We have repeatedly stressed that we must do what is good for our constituents, which will be good for their future. When we spend 500 to 700 000 euros a year and it is not known how many years it will take to bury these victims in dignity, to discover graves, hidden graves, we will not have the money for the other urgent things that our people need. We're about to pass a fiscal law. It is you who are proposing this law, which we are currently considering, that have been very restrictive and I still think that the Fiscal Rule Act will be adopted. I don't know where we're going to get any more resources to implement this law that we're currently discussing. From this point of view, once again, as you propose this law, I would like to define myself, just as you do, with household logic, that if I had a hungry child and I could buy him a book, I would probably choose to buy the child bread. When I have more money, I'll give him a book, because if I don't buy him bread, he won't survive, he won't even get to the book. That's why I'm not supporting this law right now, right now, in this situation that we're in. I also agree with my fellow Member, Uroš, who has already given all the reasons for us to be able to carry out a decent burial under the current law and therefore we do not need this law in the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u161	The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For a long time, I have been thinking about whether or not I would come to this debate at all, and in the end, I have decided that I want to share my feelings related to this item of the agenda that we are considering in the context of the regular meeting of the National Assembly. Only legislative work and the process itself is truly extremely dry. Suhoparin in this sense is that we are looking for some kind of nomotechnic solutions, rational solutions that are then more or less intensely spiced up by some way of discussion or discussion. Each one in the same way that was written to him by character. However, every so long, it is necessary to consider, in this way, the contents that go beyond this kind of rationality and are in themselves emotional nature or emotional content. Why does this happen? As a rule, because at some moral level, we are unable to resolve completely moral problems. That is the case with this law today. Here is also an answer or an explanation to some who wondered why we devote so much time to this debate compared to others. Exactly because we have shown as individuals, as groups and as a nation, that we have not been able to resolve this problem in more than half a century with our own moral actions and attitudes. In fact, here lies the heart of the problem and at the same time the need to talk about this law today, the need to need two marriages. When such emotional debates take place and so-called, if you want, emotional laws, you can usually have two faces in each of the groups. One is ideological, the other is moral. Today, we have heard the dominants about ideological views of this legislation, still. We also heard about moral warnings and moral views. I hope to state, on behalf of the entire Group of the Modern Centre Party, that the position we represent here is primarily of a moral nature. There have been interwar and postwar killings. They happened to people who were not obliged to experience such a fate. They have happened in such a way that no law and no true civilization can and cannot confirm or legitimize it. More than that, we kept it a secret, kept it a secret as a society, as a nation, and on such moral grounds we built up and grew. Here's the result. This debate, too, today and the whole process that we have brought to today and is linked to this content of the law, is the result of such a moral burden that unfortunate society and unfortunate Slovenian people bear in this case. If I look from today's moral point of view, I wonder what is important and necessary for each individual in this highest moral sense. Dignity – mine, yours as an individual, as a group, as a member of a political party, as a social group, as a family and as a nation. Understanding what dignity is can differ significantly between us, and it is also true that we are inherently different. What does dignity mean to me today? That I had the opportunity to obtain an education and thus gain the opportunity to show the fruits and fruits of this education. What does dignity mean for my children? That they are happy that they are unburdened, that they are provided with at least the basics they need for a happy childhood. What is the dignity of my parents? By being able to receive a pension so that they can enjoy the fruits of their past life in a dignified way. In such a discourse, I wonder what dignity means to those who are descendants of the victims of such violence that we are discussing today. What is their dignity in relation to these victims? It is confident that the dignity they need and understand is being properly, appropriately, civilizedly buried and that, at least in this way, the wounds of these people will heal morally. Colleagues and colleagues, that's all we're supposed to do. Just this and nothing else. This is the weight of responsibility, in this case moral responsibility and no political responsibility that we bear. And the weight of our own decision to help or not to help. Nothing costs us, nothing hurts us, nothing loses us, but we can give a lot at moral level to others, not to ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u163	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The debate on this law is extremely broad, but if we look at the content of this law, it is certainly possible to see this breadth in Article 1 but the law itself, if we are fully discovered, is trying to resolve the Commission's status in particular. This was also the basic basis for the applicant to try to address this issue. With all due respect for all these debates, which have been extremely broad, it must be stressed, however, that a number of discussions on this have already taken place in the National Assembly, and in 2009 the law adopted has answered all this question. That is why I would also like to respond to these discussions in this spirit, so that we do not get the impression that we did not start dealing with these facts in Slovenia until 2015. Of course, Slovenia is geostrategically important and this is always proven, both in history and in its future. Many events have also taken place in Slovenia because of our importance. However, if I only add to this a reflection whether we are willing to open such a broad debate, even when we are talking about compensation, which still belongs to all of us Slovenians as such, citizens and citizens, due to the consequences of the occupation which it has caused in Slovenia. We're trying to avoid that somehow. Inside we try to be extremely demanding to each other, and we are significantly less effective when we try to exercise our interest in a wider space. This is something we have not yet done in Slovenia. I think it would be good if we were trying to bring this debate into play, and then round up this whole spectrum of events that took place in Slovenia. Interestingly, in 2009, the adopted law also defines the marking of all the declines in wars. But before this idea came to light, we're already noticing that this mark is already separating. It doesn't unite, it doesn't save, it separates. I want to say that we need to be extremely careful when we talk about how we will now resolve all these different views on how and how an event is of particular importance for the creation of a single state. It is right to acknowledge, in particular, that much of this has already been done and that, in fact, this law saves only the status of the commission. This is the scope and the largest content of the law, and everything else is really kind of an exchange of views that haven't actually exceeded the state framework of ours. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u165	Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I would like to ask the motioner, Mrs Ludmilo Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u166	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your discussions. Although we have expressed different opinions, I think that such discussions also help us to know more about things in Slovenia, to see them from different perspectives, to talk about them, I think that this is some progress, even though it is difficult to reach a common solution. When Mrs. Levičnik spoke of a hungry child. The Bible says that man does not live on bread alone. True, we know that when we are sad, we cannot even eat. Surely this subject of postwar victims is so severe that many families have been hard to live for, and today they suffer to some extent because we have not managed to solve this chapter of our history properly. That's why I think that money is important, we know that we couldn't do certain things because it wasn't there, but again, we don't ask for it, we don't expect the sum of money to get in trouble for it, but that every year something is going to happen until we do things to the end. That's what I think we should do. Why have we come to this state? Mrs Kustec Lipicer spoke well before about the fact that we have some moral problems. Because we have trampled upon fundamental values, such as truth, honesty, and responsibility. This is also why we have more hungry children than we would have had, because some of them were stealing because we had to settle their bills from the state treasury, instead of encouraging jobs, instead of giving more scholarships and higher pensions. Because we have trampled on some fundamental values in society, and the truth is one of those fundamental values that has been trampled and for which we must fight that there will be more truth or true truth in this society. Life is short. That's what those who live 100 years say, how fast it's gone. When I look at all these victims from my human standpoint, it was largely young people about 20 years old, 25 years old, when we look at the numbers or years of their birth in various monuments that were to be enjoyed after the war, perhaps to marry, to have children, to cultivate the earth, to be killed, and their families should not grieve. All of this is very sad and, at least from this point of view, we must have compassion for all of these victims and their relatives. We must not just count them as traitors, among such and otherwise, but they were people who found themselves in the whirlwind of war and postwar events. Every war is cruel, every war leaves victims, every one. No war solves anything, there's a lot of problems. One of these problems with us is certainly also the unresolved problem of hidden graves. The purpose of New Slovenia was sincere, so to take a step forward in this area, invitations, we invited all of you to participate in this, to work together to do this. Unfortunately, some of you have decided differently what your right is, but I believe that somewhere in the heart, each of us feels that it is necessary to do so, and even if today you may not vote for or will abstain, I am sure that you will also say that it is necessary and right that it is done and done. This is what we owe to our young generations. I, too, do not like to continue to talk about this subject when I see how many young people are unemployed, what problems people have when we need to put dialogue or debate first of all on how to improve this Slovenia and our living conditions. And if we keep sweeping these problems under the carpet, they'll always come in the daytime. If we save them, talk and seek the truth, then I believe that there will be more room for what is absolutely necessary in Slovenia. The search for solutions for our future, which will be difficult not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe and the world, because the situation is changing, as more and more violence, terrorism, jobs will continue to decline and so will the future. So we have very difficult tasks that we should tackle intensively to some extent together, whether we are in opposition or in coalition. So once again, I ask you, and I suggest that if it is in your power, think about it, support the law, and show your willingness and good will, that in the future, we will devote more time to those life topics that are important, which are necessary, and we will not continue to talk about why we did not bury the victims, who is to blame. I invite you all to step forward together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u167	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! About two hours ago, I addressed a request to you to call on the Government to take a position on this amendment tabled by the United Left. Nothing happened at the time. Nothing. I must say that I am surprised that the Government is so passive here for three hours monitoring the debate of the parliamentary groups on the amendment tabled, that only one has been tabled, we are only discussing it, and that the Government has not been able to form any position at this time, no opinion. Secondly, Mr President, I must say that I am further disappointed by the fact that you put to the vote yesterday at the college a proposal with which you took 10 minutes of your opening presentation to our Group for those laws that we are proposing. This is where the government leaves twice as much time empty. She signed him up and left him empty. I would like to warn you that sometimes in some small matter, he gets caught up in the sense of rationalisation, and on the other hand, we are witnessing a waste of time here because someone booked him, announced him, sent a team to the National Assembly, and this team representing the Government was not able to speak a single letter today. One single letter, not a word, let alone a sentence. I suggest you sort these things out in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u169	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has the floor, Mrs Martina Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I knew, Mr Tanko, that you would not let me down and that in the end you would still, like every time I sit in the National Assembly, call on the Government to finally say something. You know, talking is always a bilateral matter. Just because the whole team comes in here and sits here in the hall means they're listening to the debates. If it does not seem important to you that representatives and representatives of the Government listen to what is being said here, then say this, but I think it is the intention of the debate to listen and, if necessary, to cooperate. I will not teach you, MEPs and Members what the Rules of Procedure say, when someone is obliged to speak, when someone can announce how these things are going on, what needs to be responded to, when to respond and what words. We have assessed, as many of you have pointed out here today, that there has really been quite an emotional debate today. Because it's an area that touches feelings that touch values that touch views if you want, which also touches ideology. Those of us who have been authorized to be here today have been judged that it is not appropriate to pour oil on fire, because we do not want to discuss emotionally, because we do not want to add to this broad, comprehensive debate, which was not the debate on the amendment to Article 1, we probably all agree. As far as the government is concerned, she presented her position at the first reading of this same law, and the position was also presented at the beginning, for the speaker, so that I do not think there is any additional need for a deep debate. If we now start to describe what the existing law is, the law in force, which will remain in force, what we are or what has been done under this law, then I would listen to the obvious that this is not a debate on the amendment at all. So you can't win here, but we can listen and we've even listened to the debate to see what the views are, what the thinking is and what we're going to do next. If this technical law helps to better regulate this area, if this makes it better to carry out our tasks, then we have nothing to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u171	I see there are no more applications. [[advertising from the hall]] What about my friend Tanko? Procedural? Another one?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know how much sense it makes to listen to this moral explanation from a government representative. We have today tabled an amendment to the amended bill. It refers to the deletion of the resolution on the European conscience in the introduction and I was just asking the Government what it thought about the amendment. That's not an ideological question. This is the question whether the Government supports or does not support the proposal of the United Left Amendment. That's all. The rest will be resolved by the parliamentary groups. I think that since this amendment was tabled, the government could have developed a position since 3 July because it took time to discuss the amendment. This is what we have today on the agenda at this point. I suggest that the Government's website also reads the Rules of Procedure when it speaks of the amendment in the way it has been said now. Once again I refer to you, Mr President, a request for the Government to declare whether this amendment supports or not. I know the content, I know the explanation, we know all the other things, but all we need is the government's opinion and nothing else. No ideology, no moral judgments, no other issues. For, against, quorum. Or it doesn't matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u173	Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in 45 minutes in the framework of the vote, with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6 p.m. and 16 minutes. Members and members of the Management and Election Commission shall be informed that the meeting will continue in 10 minutes in the Grand Chamber of Tomšič. My mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u174	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the handling of Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, will act as a Member instead of a Member acting as Secretary of State Because she was a magician. Ms Margareta Guček Zakošek, appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member while acting as Secretary of State. The National Election Commission forwarded a decision to the assembly on which candidate has the right to replace the Member of the State Secretary. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The report is published on the e-club. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the SMC Group, I would like to express my sincere thanks to our former colleague Margareta Guček Zakošek for all the work she has done within the Group. At the same time, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to extend a warm and working welcome to Deputy Member Sasa Tabakovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u176	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Anybody want a debate? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: During the time until the Member of the Magi. Margareta Guček Zakošek, acting as Secretary of State in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, is unable to act as a Member, acting in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members from today, Mr Saša Tabaković, born 20. 4. 1981, residing in Erjavčeva cesta 5, Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Member to join us and take his seat. I wish my colleague to perform the work of a Member successfully in the parliamentary benches. / applause/ Congratulations on my behalf. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the Governor of Banka Slovenije. By letter dated 10 June 2015, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that he re-appointed Dr. Janez Fabian as Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac, for a further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u177	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The President of the Republic of Slovenia received three proposals after a call was made for proposals by potential candidates for that function. Proposal for Dr. Janez Fabian, Doctor of Economic Sciences, at the proposal of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia; proposal for Mr. Tomaž Klemenc, a university-graduate economist, on his own proposal; and proposal for mag. Entitles Simončič, Master of Science, on his own proposal. After examining the candidates' presentations in the parliamentary groups that had expressed their wish and after consulting the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly that Dr. Janez Fabian, a university-graduate economist and a doctor of economic science, be proposed to the Vice-Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Dr Fabian currently serves as Vice Governor and Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije and has 23 years of work experience. Since 1992, he has been employed by Banka Slovenije, first as an analyst, then as assistant director of the Accounting Department and later as a result of his proven professional and managerial skills as director of the Financial Statistics department, which he successfully led for 10 years. During this time, the Department of Labour Management received numerous recognitions from the European Central Bank, including the approval of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. With the appointment of Vice Governor in 2009, Dr Fabian took control of the work of accounting, financial statistics, information technology. In these specific areas of work of the Bank of Slovenia, significant movements have been made, including in accordance with the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund. He coordinated the development of a single supervisory system for the collection and exchange of data between all supervisors of the financial system in the Republic of Slovenia. After 2011, Dr. Janez Fabian was appointed Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije. During the current term of office, a restructuring project was launched on its initiative to develop a system for monitoring and directing banks in the business restructuring process. The project is now recognised as successful by a number of international institutions. He obtained his Master's degree in science in 2006 at the University of Maribor, and at the beginning of this year's Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana, he obtained a doctorate in the field of monetary policy of the European Central Bank and its influence on the Slovenian economy. The President of the Republic took the following conclusions into account in his decision. Firstly, Dr. Janez Fabian is a candidate with the necessary high professional knowledge and experience in the specific field of work in this institution and a professional attitude towards the work he does. Secondly, the Bank of Slovenia's support as a candidate has been clearly demonstrated to the candidate. This fact seemed very important to the President of the Republic in his decision. The current governor was appointed by the National Assembly with great support two years ago and entrusted with the management of the Bank of Slovenia. In his decision on the proposal of the Vice-Governor, President Pahor felt that it was worth trusting the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in the proposal for this position. Thirdly, in the following year and a half, except for the Governor, the terms of office of all the other members of the Board of the Bank of Slovenia shall expire. Fourthly, the presentations of the candidate to individual parliamentary groups provided an opportunity for more detailed information and an assessment of the appropriateness and professional competence of the proposed candidate. Finally, on this basis, the views expressed by the members of the groups in previous consultations allow for a reasonable expectation that Dr Fabian enjoys sufficient support and that he will carry out the proposed function professionally and conscientiously in the event of appointment. On the basis of all the above, and in particular the importance of the financial institution for which the National Assembly now appoints the Vice-Governor, the President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly that Dr. Janez Fabian be appointed Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u178	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u179	President, thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Kovac, colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members will today decide on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor to appoint Dr Janez Fabian as Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. It should be said that only three proposals have been received by the President of the Republic in this process on the basis of a public call for proposals for possible candidates. In addition to Dr Fabian, proposed by the Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, Mr. Tomaž Klemenc and Mag. Come on, Simonchitch. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the President of the Republic, with all due respect for all three candidates, had a relatively weak set of possible candidates. We regret that no more referees or candidates have applied for such an important function in the Slovenian banking system. The proposed candidate, Dr. Janez Fabian, has been Vice Governor of the Bank of Slovenia since 2009, and is also Deputy Governor. Since 1992, he has been employed in Banka Slovenije, first as an analyst, then as Assistant Director of the Accounting Department and later as a result of his professional and managerial skills as Director of the Financial Statistics Department, which he has also conducted over the last 10 years. During this time, the Department of Work also received a number of recognitions from the European Central Bank. Dr Fabian has also worked in several working bodies, at home and abroad, and in several European Union and European monetary union professional bodies in the field of statistics, in development working groups and in the European System of Central Banks. He took control of the work of accounting, financial statistics and information technology by acting as vice-governor. During the current term of office, he led, inter alia, the restructuring process in which he developed a system for monitoring and directing banks in the business restructuring process. This system has also been recognised as successful. Dr Fabian presented himself as a candidate for the post of Vice Governor in our parliamentary group. He divided his view of the causes of the financial and economic crisis in Slovenia and the role or actions of the Bank of Slovenia in its resolution. With much that the candidate for the vice-governor has said, it is possible to agree and support him. Despite what the candidate has said, however, the fact remains that over the current leadership of Banka Slovenije, of which Dr Fabian is also a member, there is too much serious and difficult evidence regarding the irregularities in the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks. I am talking about the fact that we have not yet reached the final epilogues and clear answers to the questions whether the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks was too expensive, whether the results of the stress tests and the methodology used were really subjective and whether the choice of subordinated bond holders in banks was constitutionally indisputable. In one part, the Constitutional Court is already dealing with these issues. In the second part, they are also dealt with by law enforcement authorities on the grounds of criminal complaints filed. On some of the questions raised, it will also try to find answers to the newly established parliamentary investigative commission, which will also require the cooperation of the Bank of Slovenia. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it must be in the interest of all of us, in particular those who receive the most indications of irregularities in the rehabilitation of banks, to clarify things. It would therefore be right not to propose or approve candidates who have taken certain decisions in the previous work to the most responsible positions in the bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u180	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me just say in the introduction that we will not support the proposal of the President of the Republic in our Group. And the reasons are as follows. The candidate was a longtime official of the Bank of Slovenia. He is now acting as vice-governor in charge of the banking system and is therefore the most responsible for the creation of a bank hole and for the failure to implement preventive and curative measures in the banking system, when friendly loans were poorly secured or even unsecured loans for investments in the Balkans, for Taiwanese acquisitions or privileged lending of other projects – one of the disbursed is the Stožice, to mention Ultra and what else would be found at that time. Dr Fabian was part of the Bank of Slovenia team, which enabled the controlled liquidation of two Taiwanese banks, the Factor Bank and Probank, in which, with the consent of the Bank of Slovenia, EUR 400 million was invested just before the imposition of the liquidation control procedure, the funds were spent on the payment of the owners, dividends, awards, i.e. for the laundering of capital and liquid assets from both banks, while the burden remained with the state and the citizens. The political and related links between the actors of this decision are also evident in this business. Dr. Janez Fabian was part of Banka Slovenije's team, which refused to deliver documentation to the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which investigated the bank hole in the previous mandate, preventing the investigation of political and other responsibilities and of clienteleism and corruption of related acts, or knowingly concealed and prevented the review. In this way, the Bank of Slovenia institutionally preventively secured the grey eminence of banking, which caused the bank's hole. The penalty is paid by the State budget and, consequently, by all citizens through higher taxes, poorer public services, the loss of investments, the dispossession of shareholders and subordinated securities owners. The proceedings in the Constitutional Court are also pending with regard to the decommissioning. The Bank of Slovenia was actively opposed to any transparency and responsibility by rejecting all proposals for decisions and laws, such as the Bank of Slovenia Act or the Bank of Slovenia Act, in which we proposed that, in cases of bankruptcy or recapitalisation of banks with public funds or in cases of criminal offences, the responsibility of those responsible in the Bank of Slovenia and in business banks, even though the European Central Banks would allow such solutions. The Bank of Slovenia has explicitly prevented this, and each time the coalitions have confirmed it. The Bank of Slovenia has withdrawn a licence for members of the administration of Gorenjska banka because of having been contacted, on the grounds that Gorenjska banka is therefore exposed to the risk of loss of reputation. Let me remind you that vice-governor Janez Fabian is also a prisoner, he was accused by the All-Slovenian Society of Small Shareholders. According to the position of Banka Slovenije in the case of Gorenjska banka, Banka Slovenije is probably also exposed to the risk of loss of reputation by the governors and vice-governors. But the governor, Dr. Jazbec, has nevertheless proposed to Dr. Fabian, President of the Republic, Mr. Pahor for Vice Governor. Loss of reputation applies to one, but not to all, who are in the same position. But here we have a case of duality of a pair of excellencies. If solving the problem of the bank hole is done in the same way and even with the same staff in the same functions, it is impossible to expect improvement of the situation of the Slovenian banking system, elimination of bad practices, disclosure of responsible persons and so on. New people with a new business culture are needed for this. We regret that the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, although he has already burned himself as Prime Minister in underestimating the bank hole, does not stop with bad practice and allows such procedures. The President of the Republic will be responsible as the proposer for further concealing the situation and also for poor decisions in the Slovenian banking system. In our parliamentary group, the President of the Republic's proposal for a vice-governor, says Dr. Janez Fabian, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u182	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal for the appointment of the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the appointment of the Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Dr. Mitja Horvat, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr. Jan Škoberne, the Group of the Social Democrats, Miha Kordiš, the Group of the United Left, and Mrs. Iva Dimic, the Group of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate for the Vice Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia will be appointed, if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 6.45 p.m. and will continue until 7 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 7:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u183	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the 30.b item, this is the proposal for the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Dr. Janez Fabian as Vice Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 9 July 2015. 84 ballots were distributed, 84 ballots were delivered. Six votes were invalid, 78 votes were valid. There were 45 votes in favour, 33 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 33.]] The candidate, Dr. Janez Fabian, did not receive most of the votes of all Members, so he was not appointed vice-governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. As the candidate, Dr Janez Fabian, has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, I will immediately inform the President of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 37(6). We move to the examination of the proposal for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mr Borut Vuković to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. To further explain the proposal for appointment, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Matei Končina Petrnel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u184	Your Honor! In the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the number of Supreme Judges has decreased from 37 to 28. One of the four judges in this section will be retired in a short period of time. In order to ensure further quality of this section, it was therefore necessary to present the Court of Justice's vacant seat. The Council of Justice elected among the very good candidates the distinguished colleague of Senior Judge Borut Vuković and proposed him to the State Assembly for election. Colleague Borut Vuković, born in 1951, began his career as a judge for offences in 1978, continued in the legal services of the Municipality of Litija, was Head of Legal Service in the Union of Health and Social Welfare of Slovenia, then was Judge of the Court of First Instance for 7 years, the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, and a senior judge in the Higher Labour and Social Court for 15 years. In addition to the broad expertise in the field of labour and social and legal affairs, as demonstrated by the above-average work, both in the number of cases resolved and after success in the case of exceptional remedies, I would like to stress that it is a judge who also stands out in an effort to bring matters to a final conclusion in the Court of Justice of the 2nd degree so as not to be dismissed and returned to the Court of First Instance for retrial. Mr Vukovič stands out by the number of hearings held in the Court of First Instance. I would like to point out that decision-making in labour and social matters is, as a rule, existential for the party and that human latitude is therefore also important in addition to legal knowledge. It is this kind of human breadth and extreme sensitivity to finding just solutions in concrete labour and social disputes that my colleague Vukovič has demonstrated in his professional work so far, as well as in his interview with the members of the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice therefore considers that a fellow senior judge, Borut Vukovic, is the most suitable candidate for the City of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u185	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Let me first express the positive surprise or joy that the President of the Council of Justice is with us, while at the same time congratulating her on her election to this post. Why did I give a positive opinion? Because she came here and made some explanation for this pay phone. Until now, however, we have been taught that her predecessor considered us to be a voting machine that would confirm the proposals of the Council of Justice without his presence. Such a change should therefore be welcomed. Although we cannot support this candidate in the parliamentary group today. Why? For a basic reason, there were no appropriate written explanations. Madam President, if the explanations for the future include at least the texts that you have told about this spokeswoman when you said that the Supreme Court lacks these, those and those judges because they are retiring because they are going elsewhere or whatever is going on, you have further said that the candidate between all the candidates has reached over-average results and so on. Then I see no more formal reason for not being able to support candidates in the SDS. For this is what we have expected so far and have never received. Never get it. Today, for the first time, we have heard of this talk of explanation, which has some weight that is real and that we have missed since I remember appointing judges. For I have been sitting alone in a parliamentary bench since 2008, with that one-year interruption, and it has never been any different from what I said. Here you go, you're the voting machine, take it and vote. And more or less, that was the attitude of the Council of Justice or the Supreme Court all along. Otherwise, if, as of today, this practice is interrupted, and if, as of today, the following appointments of this explanation are also substantive, not only is the candidate good, the candidate is right, name him, choose him, but if these explanations are also substantive, I stress, in particular, why a new judge is needed in this and this court, given that we have too many in Slovenia, but it is still normal to have these needs, let's say, due to retirement in the Supreme Court, where it will probably not go differently than appointing new judges, or if there are over-average burdens in a particular court, where it will also not be possible without appointing new judges. I can say that in the future, President, if the attitude towards the National Assembly and Members is such, there will be no problems on our part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u187	I conclude the presentation of the Group's position. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the appointment of Borut Vuković as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Decision establishing the termination of the functions of the Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. As from 1 July 2015, the MP, Dr Bojan Dobovšk, has ceased to be a member of the Group of the Modern Centre of the Parties, and the National Assembly is therefore informed of the following decision on the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: First time. It is noted that the Member of the European Parliament, Dr Bojan Dobovšk, has ceased to be a member of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. In view of the termination of the membership of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Dr Bojan Dobovšč has ceased as Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. Another time. The Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. We move on to the consideration of the motion for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities and on the discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Committee on Justice The proposal for a decision was presented to the assembly by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre and the Group of the Social Democrats. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities for Vice-President Erika Dekleva, and on the Committee on Justice the Chairman of mags is dismissed. Bojano Muršič, who is president, is Mr Matjaž German. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the conclusions on the composition and appointment of the President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for Decisions amending and supplementing the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 78 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. The proposal was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Government, Mag. Darko Krashevac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u188	Well-welcome, distinguished President, Members and Members of Parliament! Under the Slovenian Press Agency Act, the National Assembly shall appoint four members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, one of the media experts, one of the economic, financial experts, one of the legal experts and one of the IT experts, on a proposal from the Government. In the Official Journal, the Government issued an invitation to all interested parties to carry out their duties as members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. Eight applications arrived within the deadline, all applications were complete and capable of further consideration, two candidates applying for the financial area, the area of the media three, the area of law one and the area of information two. In view of the references made by candidates in their roles and CVs, the expert commission proposed four candidates, Dr Mark Hočevar for the field of finance and economics, Mr Lidija Pavlovčič for the field of media, Mrs Marinko Šlibar Vende, the area of law and Mr Mladen Terčelj for the field of information technology. Dr. Marko Hočevar is a professor at the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana, in the field of finance or accounting and auditing, has 25 years of teaching experience, he was chairman of the Department of Accounting and a member of the Senate of the Faculty of Economics, and he also has experience in membership in various supervisory councils. Ms Lidija Pavlovčič is a graduate sociologist, a commentator and journalist at Dela in science, and before that she was editor of the economic editor in the newspaper Dela. For two years she was also Director of the Slovenian Press Agency, from 2005 to 2007. Mrs. Marinka Šlibar Vende is a university-graduate lawyer. He has experience in both public and private work, in various legal areas, from real estate law, economic law, labour law and civil law. Mr Mladen Terčelj is a pensioner, a university organizer of work, has performed work and tasks in the New Ljubljana Bank until retirement as an information protection officer and has also been an internal auditor in the field of information technology. He is a member of the Slovenian Institute for Audit and Senior Auditor of the Information Protection System at the Slovenian Institute for Quality, has international certificates in the field of verification of information technologies and a certificate of the tested auditor of information systems at the Slovenian Institute for Audit. The proposal also took into account sexual balance, as the Government proposes two male candidates and two female candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u189	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the National Assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, presented by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! I will say in the introduction that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the proposals for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. Practically, the entire mandate has been established since the start of this government with permanent evidence of clienteleistic recruitment, impreciseness in proposals for various functions, and all this information comes from more or less coalition types. What is a problem is that none of this information, none of the claims that have been made, written or recorded for electronic media, is finally also denied for Slovenian television, but the coalition does not respond and let all these things run away from itself. No one tries to deny them or to reject them in any way. If you remember, the government, as well as the President of the Government, in the pre-election and also in the upcoming talks in the National Assembly, spoke extremely much about the rule of law, about different ethical standards and criteria, about intolerance to any mistakes and clienteleism, but during this period these things are repeated in the same way as accusations within coalition species regarding exactly the diametrically opposite way of working. It is said that things in the coalition are going in a non-transparent, opaque way. Last but not least, Mr Dobovšek also spoke to the recent member of the Modern Centre Party about the manner of recruitment to the Supervisory Board and about non-transparent procedures. This is not an uneducated person who would not know the rules of action of staff policies in the public sector, because it is an expert who dealt with these matters, he was, after all, a member of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in the period before Mr Klemenčič. Given that there is no minimum desire in the coalition to explain what is actually going on in these human resources procedures for appointment to various supervisory councils or other functions, the Government does not deny these things, and I do not deal with them, then there is no condition in our parliamentary group to confirm the proposal proposed by the Government. For he is weighed down, he is burdened with many suspicions concerning human resources policy and staffing in this mandate. Within the government, you also have a minister who was until the recent member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, was the president of the Senate, and if such suspicions fly to the Government, where the former President of the Anti-Corruption Commission is, then something in this country certainly cannot work. Finally, the Attorney General, Dr Fischer, also accused the Commission of preventing corruption or, in essence, the former Minister of the fact that the KPK was a commission for discreditation, and there were no denials and objections. In short, there is clearly no transparency in the recruitment procedures, procedures shall not be carried out in such a way that they are not burdened with suspicion, doubt, doubt, with accusations that things are not going well. In fact, we have no possibility or basis to support the proposal of the Government for the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u191	I conclude the presentation of the Group's position. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would not like to repeat the facts that have been cited by our group leader, Mr Jože Tanko, but allow me to present my own points and the reasons why I will not support myself the proposal to appoint new members of the Slovenian Press Agency Supervisory Board. Only eight candidates applied for four places in the Supervisory Board. I'm kind of sure that if this invitation to tender opened, even better published around the country, we would get a much more competent candidate at the invitation. Post an invitation for one job and we'll see how many potential candidates will sign up. I'm sure we can find better candidates, and that's the first reason I can't support it myself. Second reason. I am a member of the Committee on Culture, and I am well aware of the functioning of the Supervisory Board and also of the functioning of the Slovenian Press Agency. We have also recently taken note of the report in the previous year or 2014 and I must say that the same people will not solve the problems they failed to solve in the past. That's a second thought. Third time. The distinguished colleague Dr. Dobovšek also resigned from the Group of the Modern Centre Party for Personnel. This time, of course, we are talking again about the recruitment of the supervisory councils. I cannot get rid of the feeling that there are similar problems in this workforce, so it will again be corrupt and backward. I can't trust Mir Cerar's government in their personnel. Why not? We have appointed new members of the SDH Supervisory Board, and there is already evidence in the media that suggests that at least three do not have sufficient conditions to fill the seat of membership in the Supervisory Council. I'm sorry I can't trust you. Last reason, fifth reason. With this composition nothing will change, nothing will be done for the objectivity of Slovenian media. I support the good proposals myself, but unfortunately I can't support the bad ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u193	I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the proposed decisions. In doing so, I inform you that, under the third paragraph of Article 13 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, any decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. On the basis of Article 13, paragraph 4, of this Act, the National Assembly shall vote on each candidate separately. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Dr Mark Hočevar as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 19. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Lidija Pavlovčič as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Marinka Šlibar Venda as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 19. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Mladen Terčelj as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 19. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the motion for a decision on the appointment of the Chairman of the Committee on the Economy The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Parliament by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mrs Andreja Potočnik as Chairman of the Committee on the Economy. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance following a short procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 8. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. In the United Left, we have tabled this amendment because we would like to further improve this law, in particular in these social aspects, by proposing that a mandatory notice be issued to the debtor before the enforcement procedure begins, with which he would be notified by time to settle his debt, otherwise the procedure will run out normally. We already have such a similar arrangement in the Consumer Protection Act, and we see no reason why we could not introduce such arrangements in this novel. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u195	So we can vote. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 2. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 8. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 16. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Alliance's Group shall become irrelevant to the same Article. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u196	The amendment in Article 113 of the Code of Penalties affects us by deleting the word 'exploitation' in the area where trafficking in human beings is regulated, which has been pointed out in civil society for longer. In fact, this definition in the law makes it difficult to initiate a procedure and set up an indictment that could lead to effective prosecution of such crimes. By deleting this term, we would make things significantly easier and also achieve more successful persecution of trafficking in human beings. In addition, in this article we add this possibility that such a crime could also be committed out of negligence, which is another aggravating circumstance in such serious and serious acts. In short, we will, of course, vote in favour here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 50. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to Article 16. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 52. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 17. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u198	In Article 17, we are correcting or adding one provision to the effect that, in the case of forced marriage or similar communities, it is also a case of an unregistered same-sex partnership, since we believe that this definition is now missing this aspect of the population and in fact leaves this legal void or a criminal void that would put these people in a discriminatory position if someone forced them into such relations. We will vote in favour to complete this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 56. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 32. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 54. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 1. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. [[advertising from the hall]] It is not possible to explain the vote after the vote under our Rules of Procedure. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 8. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the second article. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Article 9 shall become irrelevant to Articles 19 and 38. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u200	I'm going to explain all four amendments because they make sense. We are trying to introduce or eliminate this discrimination, which is emerging, in a similar way as in the previous law, it is said that partners in the unregistered same-sex partnership would be included in the definition of persons close to them in order to achieve this equality of diverse and same-sex couples in the treatment and enforcement of criminal sanctions. Until the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations enters into force, this is in fact a necessity at the moment, so that there is no constitutionally established illegality. We will, of course, vote for all 4 with yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]] Comments during the vote are also not admissible. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 54. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the PS SDS to Article 10 becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u202	A beautiful greeting to all! Both the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the Legal Chamber and the Institute of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law have, among other things, pointed out that the regulation that the Minister wants to impose with the amendment of this law is inappropriate, inappropriate and that it constitutes an intervention that is problematic in terms of the protection of human rights when once a person is in this situation. What did Henko Jenull point out when he wrote about this issue in Legal Practice? That in this case it should be done to address the wrong conduct of specificity, not to abolish the institute as such. What the Minister did then. Now the law is written, if we are honest, to one person, on one single case, which the Ministry has also said in its reply to the Faculty of Law when it stated that a change is needed due to the current situation and current cases. It's perfectly clear here what this is all about. But that's not how marriages are written. Things must be specific especially when it comes to something that may be a grave violation of human rights and about a person who is already in a difficult situation, which, of course, means serving a punishment in itself. All these are the reasons why all these institutions have proposed that the current system should be maintained and that the practice should be changed, that these procedures should be conducted more carefully and that there should be no problems. Despite the fact that the article was somewhat popular with the amendment, but crucial, the fundamental concerns of all these institutions remain. For this reason, we also propose that this article be deleted in its entirety and thus maintained the current regime, which is as humane as possible and implemented in a manner that will be as feasible as possible and, on the other hand, that it will be of the best interest to the objective that our criminal law pursues in this case. To reintegrate a person, to rehabilitate and not just to punish himself, as they do, as a value, as an advantage of some other arrangements in Europe, to which, as an interesting thing, the Minister himself referred. That is why, as we say, we will vote in clear favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u203	Thank you. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 56 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the second article has not been adopted, amendments to Articles 9, 19 and 38 have become irrelevant. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 9 to Article 9 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposal to Article 10 has become irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a key amendment for us to the problem that has been pointed out by many institutions, among them, as has been said, also the Institute of Law, the Bar Association, the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, and since this lack of law has not been resolved, we now have nothing but a vote against the whole law. The amendment, which you have adopted, does indeed favour the Minister's original intention to some extent, but, on the other hand, it imposes another flaw which in such legislation, which touches on human rights, certainly has nothing to look for. And that's a matter of certainty. The article is now far from established, and this can in practice lead to such or different interpretations and conduct. Equality before the law in all cases, as we know, is a constitutional category which in this case can be very quickly questioned. All these are the reasons why we will now vote against the proposed law in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against 19. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Bill on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 8. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. We have proposed this amendment for one reason, because it is not a technical law, as we have heard in the previous Committee hearings, but because by introducing these two resolutions into Article 1 it opens and continues this ideological struggle, which brings no useful solution. If it were a technical law, we could, of course, resolve this, as stated in the first opinion of the Government, by amending the existing law, if not, but we could write this law slightly differently, rather than inserting this resolution into this Article 1. Because this resolution refers to some European values and so on, which have been hidden, at least in recent times, we should say that if we expose the Greek crisis, if we expose the refugee crisis and all the other mistakes that are taking place on the basis of these European values, I think we must delete at least these two resolutions from this law in order to achieve at least about this technicality of this law. Although it won't be that far. If this amendment is not put to the vote, we will simply be in some nonconsistency, especially the government coalition and the government alone. On the one hand, they do not support the resolution set out in this Article and, on the other hand, they are prepared to adopt this same resolution in this law. Given that the Government has clearly identified itself as negative to the resolution, even in its first opinion to the proposal for a specific law, I think there is no other solution than to support this amendment. We'll be sure of it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u207	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Ambassadors, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Despite the obvious fact that the entry in the European Community resolution in Article 1 of the Law means following European ideas, of course we are committed to Europe, we are a member of the European Union and the documents adopted by such a convincing majority of the European Parliament, even at a declaration level we accept as part of our value system. It was also pointed out in the debate whether a law with or without these indications could be implemented in the direction of detecting hidden graves and burying victims, and we believe that in this way, by writing documents already in 1. Article, we also make clear what the purpose is, and this explains that we have in mind the victims of totalitarian regimes. That is why we will vote against the amendment in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u209	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u210	In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the amendment of the United Left, which proposes to exclude the reference to this resolution on totalitarianism from the law. Let me mention all those who may not have been following today's debate, Article 1 mentions more resolutions and more conventions. It is not only this resolution, which is problematic for the United Left, but for more of these things. Article 1 refers to the principles on which this law is based. If you may not have been able to read this resolution, I will just read you the essentials, and you will be able to see that the reference in Article 1 on principles is practically not problematic. He says, "Because from the point of view of the victims, it doesn't matter which regime deprived them of freedom, torture or murder for whatever reason." I think it's a principle that is difficult for anyone to challenge. Next thing. Because it is necessary to preserve the memory of Europe's tragic past in order to honor the victims, condemn the perpetrators and lay the foundations for reconciliation based on truth and memory. I do not think that the things contained in this resolution, which speak of principles, are problematic. Therefore, we see no reason why this resolution should be excluded from Article 1 which speaks of the fundamental principles on which this law is based.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u211	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you very much. With this 1st article, which we have heard so far, even in the afternoon, it is really only to the end that the pinnacle is placed on the i that it is an ideological law. Whether they want me to or not, the fact is that we have not received from any one today an answer that insists on this amendment whether a decent burial can be carried out without mentioning this resolution. We have not received this answer because they are convinced that this law is more necessary to be taken out of the way. To be honest with you, you would care a lot about those words in Article 1, but that's not really what you're talking about. This is intended for the applicants. The resolution, which is problematic and which is sought by Article 1 proposed by the United Left, is in fact withdrawn, has been written in Europe for completely different reasons and purposes, and is now being misused by some in the Slovenian space for completely different purposes. This was repeatedly established and confirmed in the debate in the National Assembly. That is why this resolution has never been adopted in the National Assembly, and today some of you are hiding under the following statements, such as "Well, we are part of the family of Europe, and we condemn all post-war killings". I'm sorry, this has nothing to do with this declaration that was adopted. No connection. With this, of course, you have only pressed the button further and cut even deeper and divide this Slovenia into two parts. I'm sorry. You wanted to be honest, I'll never know if it was true, because you've achieved something completely different. That is why we will, of course, support this amendment in order to give you a clear message that we are not going the way you would like it and that you have achieved it to follow it. [[advertising from the hall]] I told you my position, President, and I ask that you at least leave me alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u213	[[advertising from the hall]] Please. Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Then I'm asking you to sign up. A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Franz Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, chairman. About the inconsistency of the government and the coalition was discussed by Comrade Vatovec, a colleague of Jani. Because of what Mr Tonin said, I would only say that, of course, I will vote for this amendment simply because we do not need this type of article, because it is some general civilisational standards. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u215	A self-explanation of the voice, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much, President. I too will vote in favour of the amendment simply because I would gladly support some really technical law based on human and humanitarian origins and on non-ideological origins, as has been constantly said. But this Article, at least the second part of Article 1, makes it clear to both the resolution referred to, that what has been mentioned many times today is impossible for some to bury the dead without being dragged back to the day of division. Two years ago, my uncle, a partisan who never understood the significance of reconciliation, died. In 93, 92, he had only two speakers, a partisan and a priest on his grave. This was his whole life, and he didn't understand the constant argument about some device that we're constantly watering with oil, the fire of ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 67. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. I would like to point out that in the United Left we do not object in any way to the fact that every human being, regardless of how he died, has the right to a decent burial and to a grave. However, as we have seen, the proposal of this law does not contribute in any way to reconciliation. The reason is this unfortunate resolution, which equates totalitarianism, as you call it, fascism, Nazism and communism. There is no way we can agree to this Article 1 because we must always and everywhere know who was the invader in Slovenia, who was involved with the invader and who resisted it. If we forget that, then we forget where we came from and why we are living in a free Slovenia today. It's not the past, Your Honor. I must warn you that this is our future, because today we are witnessing the rise of fascism throughout Europe. As in Greece the Golden Dawn, Orban in Hungary and the National Front in France. By allowing this resolution, we open the door and give Fascism legitimacy, for after that we give him the opportunity to be one of the possible choices. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I finish, please? I listened to you. The establishment and competence of the so-called expert commission is also questionable to us. How many times have we seen expert commissions that have acted ideologically and have adapted their knowledge to certain political options and retouched history? That is why in the United Left we strongly oppose the law. In our view, it would be necessary to accept our amendment or to take the old law and make it useful. It seems completely confused with common sense that the Modern Centre Party, together with the Government on the Committee, rejects the resolution as harmful and unconstitutional and today votes in favour of this law, which has this resolution in Article 1. Since we rightly suspect that it is a political bargain because of the fiscal rule, we sincerely hope that the fiscal rule will not be adopted tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u219	Who else wants it? An explanation of the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u220	It's definitely not technical. It's ideological, and it was designed for only one purpose, as we've seen today. This is to show how we have a common language and in a way symbolically bind the bow around reconciliation itself. It's actually a three-way marriage. One thing is for sure to regulate the issues of the Commission, which has enormous responsibilities and no responsibilities at all. The second question is sure that it will be stamped through the side door with a question on which we will vote against most of the second week and today we will refer to this resolution and say that this is the basis for us to arrange decent burials. In fact, we already have a law that regulates these issues, but they were not able to regulate them in the basic law. The third thing that is also, of course, a kind of masculinity in some way, is that we have actually received the answer that this law will not solve the problems, especially not because it will become more complicated, because to this day the question has been addressed by one ministry, and from tomorrow the two ministries will deal with it. According to the new Ministry of Economy, which will, in fact, deal very thoroughly with the issue of a decent burial on one occasion because of the economic stimulus. Excuse me, this is ridiculous and unworthy to deal with the issue of decent burials. Understand as you wish. We will vote differently in the parliamentary group because, of course, we have different views on the same issues. But the fact is, at least I'll ask myself personally every year on the same date how many decent funerals we've arranged. How serious does the coalition mean with this, but we will see in the budget, with a number that will clearly say, because we can only solve this problem with money and not with a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u221	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will not withdraw what our leader has said, that we will vote by conscience, but I must say three things. First of all, I will not personally support the law because it is political and technical. This was also seen among the advocates, for some spoke extensively about the condemnation of communism. Of course, no one mentioned the beatings of patriots who were German soldiers in Slovenian. As far as dealing is concerned. Of course, I haven't had any problems with reconciliation my whole life. I've been done ever since. By the 1980s, I had been criticized by the left, and now I'm being criticized by the right, so I don't really care much about that point. But I think it's a very intimate matter and it's hard to solve on such a big scene. But there's one thing I have to say. In line with my conviction, of course, I am absolutely opposed to the fact that recently they are also setting up monuments for fallen patriots. Of course I'm absolutely against it. On the other hand, I must say that I would have stopped the race against the poet Frances Balantic, who was, regardless of the fact that he was misled and where he was, one of the biggest Slovenian poets, so I see no reason why the library in Kamnik could not be named after him. You need to know that in 1970, Balantic's songs were published in the Living Orpheus, published by Cankar's label. So it wasn't true that it was waiting until 1990, but it was in 1970. Drago Šega, Prices Vipotnik and Dr. Jože Kastelic published this in a poetry collection. At this point, of course, I also need to be clear. In the cultural field, however, I think we should start to resolve matters in terms of reconciliation, which, of course, is sincere. But I will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u223	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u224	In New Slovenia, of course, we will support this law because we believe it is necessary and that 70 years after the war it is time to bury the victims. In view of the fact that 600 hidden graves, some 15,000 victims in these graves, totalling 100,000 killed in Slovenian territory, we find it extremely sad and non-civilisational that we have not yet settled this problem. This law of ours will help to make the problem easier to solve. Whoever feels that we've taken a step towards getting things done, fine, fine, but whoever thinks it's not a step towards getting things done, but it's also his problem. Why have we cited these resolutions of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe? Because both resolutions condemn violence, condemn non-democratic approaches, condemn the killings committed by non-democratic totalitarian regimes. It lists all regimes, from fascism, Nazism and, of course, communism. And we cannot say that these victims were not even in communism, for we have 15 thousand Slovenians who were then killed before us. But the main purpose of this law is to give tools, however, to make from a hidden cemetery a war grave, and this law provides for different procedures to come to this conclusion and to bury the dead with dignity. That is why, of course, we will support this law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u225	Dr Mitja Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that, President! Dear Members and Members! We do not understand in the Modern Centre Party, but we can, of course, accept all the reasons given by the parliamentary groups and individual Members regarding the issue before us today. The question is obviously worth the debate, and I am pleased that, at least in the debate on the second reading, the debate was held at a decent level, that we could have expressed different views on such a fine and, of course, for a long time, silent, and then for decades, no longer the silent issue of the beatings that took place after World War II. By word of mouth, we have not reduced the importance of national liberation, not partisans or partisan resistance against the occupier, because of course we reject, condemn, and in this part is something that this society must do. If nothing else, we have therefore joined the New Slovenia proposal to support this law simply because the previous law, the War Cemetery Act, has not produced the desired result. We believe that this gives us a new possibility that, of course, we will also be able to reveal some dark side without condemning what is generally accepted as a resistance against the invader, against Nazism, fascism. If we cannot face other forms, of course we will never be able to make progress. Just denying, not discussing such an open issue, does not bring a solution and does not bring cleansing, especially if we are unable and able to condemn practices that are unacceptable, then we will not be able to give our fellow citizens real compasses, what is right and what is wrong. Therefore, with all due respect to all those who feel hurt or attacked in connection with this law, we report that it is not an attack, that it is not an open ideological issue, but simply a matter of clearing and cleaning up, so we will vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u227	In your own name? So I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u228	I'll support the proposed marriage myself. I agree with a number of the concerns raised during the debate, and perhaps we have not received all the answers. True, time will show whether or not the law will help us. The fact is, the law is just a letter on paper, that it has to be implemented. The fact is that history cannot be changed by anyone, not by a resolution or by law. It's clear who's got our freedom, who's been working with the invader on the other side. And people deserve a decent burial. If this is not a big step towards starting more than the past to deal with the future, I am joining my colleague Novak, let us hope that he will be small at least.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u229	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u230	President, thank you for your word. What we have is called the Bill on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. But if it were indeed held to be just that, then the amendment to Article 1 which we have tabled in the United Left Group would also be adopted. And if only for this technical dimension, then this law would also be supported in the United Left. As we have already said, the issue of reconciliation and the question of the burial of some victims is an intimate question, and if we want to deal with it in this antigonal spirit, we can. We can do this with a very broad consensus, both in this National Assembly and in a wider Slovenian society. But that's just not what this is about. The first article, which we have amended in the ZL, makes it very clear that there is a political momentum behind here, that there is a very deep ideological operation at work that rehabilitates nazifascism, which our partisans fought against, which was fought by the socialist movement at the time, and I will certainly not support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u231	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. In the meantime, I've been thinking, I've been consulting the doctor of philosophy, and I have to say that even though you're all talking about an intimate issue, it's not an intimate question. The animal intimately scratches a dead co-existence. Our nature is culture. This is a fundamental civilisation issue and, of course, no one in the United Left has a problem. However, this law, which is supposed to be technical, ideologies and thus has problems even in the smallest group of Members who cannot be unified in this regard. With regard to what the gentleman spoke on behalf of SMC, who wants to turn this deal fiscally, he himself is a lawyer, he knows better than one poor doctor of sociology so that he can have a technical law, what he was talking about, but of course would be resolved in the form of a declaration or a content law on whether we get out or not. Although there is another question, of course this is necessary if we are based on some of the civil standards or as it has resolved at personal level – Who? Your uncle? [[advertising from the hall]] – Uncle Comrade Hanzka. Of course I'll vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-09-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 19. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes exactly the agenda. We're moving to 23. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of the security protocol before the draft agreement on the Savoy pool. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments to the meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is a preliminary bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Italian Republic on the state border line at the regulated section of the jugular/barbuccine stream in the Mayan sector. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States, including the Government of the United States and the Government of the United States of America, the Government of the former Federal Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the United States, the Government of the United States of America, and the Government of the United States, the State of America, the State of Payments, the former Socialist Republic of Slovenia and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
