ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 12th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs. Irena Kotnik, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Mr. Franz Laj, Dr. Mitja Horvat, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Franz Breznik, Mr. Joseph Horvat, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Luka Moon and Mag. Branko Grimes. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the 27th item of the agenda, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! The last of October's days, ending with the State's Day of Remembrance of the Dead, is when we remember our ancestors and their lives and work. In doing so, our thoughts often include questions related to our pastibility. These are fundamental issues that we also have to face because they are embedded in our essence. Without them, we cannot be human, so we grieve for our dead. But these days are not only a time of self-examination as to who we are, what we are doing here, and where we are going, but a time of memory and honor for those who have gone before us. Some have their graves, others still don't. The pain of people who were unable to say good - bye to their loved ones and who did not know where they were lying is still unchallenged today. The history of our nation is often read like that of Sophocles’ Antigon; the brother, enraged by the struggle for the state and authority, falls, followed by only a sister. They are not interested in the reasons for their struggle, not the question of guilt, not the command and the law of the new ruler, but in its desire to bury a brother. How similar to the situation in Slovenian during and after World War II! The antidote didn't go away. She knew she was doing the right thing by doing her basic civil duty, burying her brother, no matter what the consequences. How many Antigons were there in the years following the outbreak of World War II in Slovenia? How many desires for the burial of their neighbors, and how many of those who remained faithful to themselves and their neighbors were punished or even sent to death because of the ideological blindness of the various rulers? Yes, Slovenia had and has many more Antigones! In July this year, the National Assembly passed the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. This law is only a step towards the Republic of Slovenia finally fulfilling its part of its civil duty after 25 years. It is sad that our country failed to make this move before July this year and that we have not even spoken publicly about it until 1975. Dear Members and honourable Members! At the first session of the first democratically elected assembly, Dr. France Bučar said: "By the constitution of this assembly, we can believe that the Slovenian civil war has ended, which has broken us and plagued us for half a century." But after the war, they remain dead, and our duty remains to bury them. Therefore, let us show respect for all our victims, all the victims of war, all the victims of the war of all the victims of post-war violence, respect for all the victims of the occupation, all the victims of the collaboration, all the victims of the national liberation struggle, all the victims of the revolution of all the victims of the post-war beatings that took place on Slovenian soil, and in particular respect for all the victims of war crimes and crimes against humanity, regardless of why and how they committed them. Together, let us show our respect for all our victims by a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] May they rest in peace! We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, the proposal recommended in connection with the company’s management business problem, D.D., in connection with companies and companies whose banking assets were transferred to the company for the management of the banks, D.D. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to a member of the Commission for the supervision of public finances to Mr Jerne Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished President of the National Assembly, Minister, Secretary of State, welcome! At its 7th urgent meeting on 7 and 8 October 2015, on a proposal from the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats, the Commission addressed the following item of the agenda The problem of the operation of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims in relation to companies and companies whose bank claims have been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. In the proposal for a hearing and also in the introductory debate, we drew attention to three cases of Slovenian companies in which, following the transfer of bank claims to a bad bank or to the DUTB, the so-called inappropriate conduct was made by the professional public. In fact, the first case exposed is the case of Sava Turizm, d.d., which is threatened by the consequences of the predicted process of violent changes in the ownership and staffing structure, as reported by many media. However, the second case, which has recently filled the lines in our media, has been strongly exposed to the case, when the DUTB's conduct was questioned in terms of prudence and economic eligibility in T-2, d. o. o. The DUTB, in spite of the court-confirmed compulsory settlement, demanded bankruptcy of the company, although it is a positive business for publicly available data and management, the EBITDA is also increasing in recent years and is even, according to the former Chief Executive Director of DUTB, Mr Münsson, this profitable company. And the third case that we discussed at the Commission's meeting is the Autotechne case, and even in this case, it was possible in the media to see the professional public's surprise over the introduction of the enforcement procedure. The examples that I have now listed and to which the Public Finance Supervisory Commission has defined are, therefore, only three of the most resilient cases in recent times, which I would like to stress – which should indicate the departure of the DUB from the application for which it was established. That is why it is right for these doubts to dissipate, and it is also right that we are discussing this today. Finally, after a lengthy discussion, the Commission adopted a recommendation: The National Assembly proposes to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the third indent of paragraph 2 of paragraph 5 of Article 20 and in accordance with Article 25(2) of the Law on the Court of Auditors, that it review the legality and cost-effectiveness of the decision-making procedures of the Bank Management Company in the cases of Sava, d.d., T-2 and Autotechna, whose bad claims have been transferred to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. This recommendation was adopted by the Commission and is why today the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is discussing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u3	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance Dr Dušan Maramor, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u4	Your Honor! The company for bank claims management has been re-emphasized by the Slovenian public, institutions and policies in recent years. The initiatives you have taken by Members on the issue of its operation and its relations with companies whose claims have been transferred to a bad bank and on the issues of good business and economy coincide with the human resources changes made by the Government in the leadership of this important institution. The debate at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on 7 October showed that these are difficult recovery processes for the largest debtors who have caused poor credit in the banking system and that these processes are often conducted in a conflict manner. Let's remember how we got into our current state of affairs. A few years ago, we found very large insolvent banks, so the liabilities of these banks were much higher in the long run than claims. This required recapitalisation, of course, but we were faced with an enormous amount of bad credit and a dilemma as to what to do with these loans. Two options were whether these loans were treated within banks or under a bad bank, which was the practice of other countries, and the assessment was that it would be more effective in recovering bad loans or restructuring and cashing bad loans from a bad bank than the banks themselves. It is therefore a professional institution whose main objective is, under the current legislation, the recovery of as much of the property as possible. If this fails, not only will the state guarantee for the DUTB bonds held by the banks be cashed, it is said, that this will have to be covered from the budget, that jobs will also be lost, and not only in companies with poor claims, but also in others, and that the result will also be the decline of Slovenia's credit rating, the more expensive and difficult indebtedness of the state and business, the poorer operating conditions of businesses and financial institutions. The success of DUTB is a lactic test of Slovenia's determination and ability to emerge from the crisis. In poor claims management procedures, companies are generally insolvent; therefore, the value of corporate assets is lower than the liability. Therefore, the original owners, together with their respective set-up managers, who have so mismanaged these companies, are no longer economic owners. Their assets in companies are worth nothing. Economic owners are creditors, in many cases the DUTB’s largest creditor. In this role, the DUTB must ensure that as much assets are maintained and cashed as possible. However, in insolvency proceedings, of course, the original owners, together with their set-up managers, are trying to confiscate as much assets as possible to creditors and at least partially recover lost assets. If the creditors allow it, and most of them are DUTBs, they do not do their job. If the original owners and managers still have a policy at their side, the taxpayers and the economy will end up paying for it with an optimal restructuring and job loss – if I leave a very important aspect of social disintegration here. Of course it doesn't work. We have invested a great deal of effort and money in building an effective DUTB, perhaps a little more on this in the debate, and the government has never embarked on individual cases. It has always analysed the work of the DUTB from a systemic point of view and has eliminated either obstacles or inadequateness in the functioning of the DUTB by means of systemic measures. When the National Assembly decided to deal with individual cases, the Government therefore refrained from giving an opinion. In the light of the proposals, however, I would like to clarify that the Court of Auditors must assess the legality and cost-effectiveness of the operation of the DUTB by law each year. That Dr Imre Balogh is not the President of the Probank administration since taking office in DUTB further, i.e. from 9 October 2015, and that Mr Janez Škrubej does not have a conflict of interest in this case, according to our strong information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the United Left Group, the last Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The objectives of international financial markets institutionalised in the form of a troika are clear: privatisation of state property, liberalisation of services on which the social state is based, namely health and education, and deregulation of markets in a way that will further favour the privileged and more depriving the deprived. The company for bank claims management has been formed in us as some kind of branch of the troika, which cares about the enforcement of the interests of international financial markets and not the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and even less of its citizens. This is also evidenced by the fact that the President of the Management Board, Nyberg, sent a letter addressed to the Prime Minister to the knowledge of the troika. The objective of the DUTB under the Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks is to strengthen the stability of banks and the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia. The main task of the DUTB should be the restructuring of companies that have fallen into debt, but rather than the restructuring of the DUTB itself, it is obvious that DUTB is preferable to pursue primarily liquidation procedures and transfer claims to venture capital funds. The ways in which these things are handled are often controversial and at the border of the legal one. The Court of Auditors points out that we still do not know how some clearly undervalued claims came to a bad bank and that the Government does not want to participate in cleaning up. In the last three weeks, the Government reduced all the irregularities surrounding the operation of the DUTB and the incomprehensibility of their decisions to the remuneration of the Executive Director of Münsson. These receipts and their method of payment were disputed, but only the tip of the icy mountain of irregularities on the DUTB. The most worrying thing is that Minister Mumor has branded the work of DUTB as good. According to media reports, Minister Maramor does not want to be politically involved either. In other words, the Minister of Finance does not wish to interfere with the work of the State institution in charge of strengthening the financial system of the State. All he wants to know is how to make sure that the bad bank works smoothly. The minister of our quasi-sovereign state has also said that he must repeatedly defend himself abroad for the expulsion of foreigners from a bad bank. In the United Left, we support the proposed decision of the DUTB National Assembly proposal. Once again, we point out that the whole DUB board and members of the board of directors need to be resolved with experts who will not only take care of the early resales of bad claims but will undertake a serious restructuring of companies, in a way that will ensure financial sustainability and long-term development for these companies. Therefore, the amendment proposes to supplement the decision calling on the Government to replace the entire DUTB administrative committee, and we also propose to the Commission to prevent corruption to verify that there is a possible conflict of interest and incompatibility between the functions of Executive Directors Imr Baloh and Janez Škrube. The first acts simultaneously as the chairman of Probanka's extraordinary administration, which is practically in business relationship with DUTB, while the second one worked as a lobbyist before hiring at DUTB and lobbyed for the sale of T-2 to Austrian Telecom, and now DUTB for incomprehensible reasons requires the bankruptcy of T-2. The responsibility for the contested decisions and management of the DUTB is borne by the entire Management Board, which must be completely replaced, and therefore we call on you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support our amendment already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u7	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u8	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! The operation of the Banks Claims Management Company has been the media one of the most exposed to these issues in recent days. This is not due to the functioning or poor functioning of the DUTB, but to the discharges of the Chairman of the Management Board of DUTB Nyberg and the recall of the Chief Executive Director of Münsson. As explained by the President of the Government in response to the question being sent, the sole reason for the dismissal in non-compliance or even illegality with regard to the determination of the salary of the President of the Administration was. In Novi Slovenije we are concerned about the statements made by the Ministry of Finance that the Minister of Finance has stated that he is under great pressure to replace the management of the DUTB and that there are real reasons for replacing the management of the DUTB in a number of lobbies that operate from the background and want to participate in the third division of state property. In fact, DUTB manages EUR 3.5 billion worth of claims transferred by state banks, mostly by the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank. These so-called bad claims were redeemed by DUTB from both banks at an average value of 30% with sovereign bonds. This is indeed a huge amount of property, where there are certainly appetites for many capital-strong lobbyes from the background, including those that have caused bad claims. What is the objective of setting up and operating the DUTB? During the management and disposal of assets, the DUTB shall pursue the objective of optimising value. To this end, these so-called bad loans may be re-programmed, re-programmed or converted into equity shares or pooled real estate portfolios. The DUTB's core operating maximum is therefore the property to be restructured and then resold, but only when the market situation is normalised and the DUTB must manage this property as a good host until the end sale. In view of the interconnection of political, capital and related elites in Slovenia, we are convinced in Novi Slovenija that it is not only useful, but it is essential that key management posts in the DUTB also be held by experts from abroad. This is the only way to ensure the independence of the DUTB, which will be able to ensure the fulfilment of its mission. This is first of all to stabilise the Slovenian financial sector by implementing the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks by taking poor funds from systemically important banks. Secondly, to promote confidence in the financial system and to act in accordance with the highest international standards of corporate governance. Thirdly, achieve the highest possible value of the funds purchased and facilitate and promote sustainable restructuring of the economy in Slovenia. We expect the Government to resolve the entire DUB leadership and then call for an international competition for these cities by clearly laying down rules on the functioning of management, including clearly defined rules on the fixing of their salaries. We also expect that doubts about the correctness and legality of some of the decisions taken so far by the DUB leadership will be clarified. In particular, decisions concerning T-2, d.d., Sava, d.d., Autotechna, d.d., whose claims have been transferred to DUTB. In such cases, it would be appropriate to carry out an audit by the Court of Auditors and to clarify whether the DUTB acted lawfully in all these cases, as well as whether its decisions were cost-effective and effective. For this reason, the Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a decision to propose to the Court of Auditors, as far as its decisions concerning three companies are concerned: T-2, Sava and Autotechna.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We need to give this topic a broader framework, which would start with a financial crisis. The financial crisis is a consequence of financial crime for me, which is due to the fact that we have allowed financial institutions to implement, on the basis of deregulation, derivative financial instruments which I believe are all crimes. Some crimes will only be proven, and other crimes are due to the fact that governments have reached such legislation, that some crimes do not have any signs of crime at all. It is that we have succumbed to economic schools and economists – the economy is not an exact knowledge – that they have sold us some new ideas and based on these ideas is an economy, instead of investing in investment in actual production, we prefer to go to financial markets, and in these financial markets, instead of profit-lossing, the banks have only accelerated all of this. It's a so-called pre-financing problem. Banka Slovenije has identified 18 forms of such behaviour and on this basis I expect them to continue to act, because Banka Slovenije is the regulator that should prevent it. The main problem is the relationship between the financial sector and the economy. The financial sector – it must survive the economy. The general theory is that the economy cannot live because of public administration, but in fact it is the one who has put the economy in such a bad situation, the financial sector in which the economy borrows money. And the key is lending and what we're going to use these loans for. What about in Slovenia? In Slovenia we have, and we also have some large companies that have committed themselves and, in theory, are too large to fail, the state has to offer a so-called security network that will stop such a fall, and because entrepreneurs know that, at the end of the day, the state will save them through taxpayers, they go to risky businesses. Money is not earmarked for investments, but money is allocated to finance some new financial products. On the basis of a rotating door system, people who have been employed in the banking sector are employed in the highest places in companies and, on the basis of associations and knowledge, they are making money, they are paying it for their own purposes, not in the interests of the economy. What is the role of Banka Slovenije here? Banka Slovenije is the institution that must first take care of regulation and must, as such, make sure that these products do not occur at all and its role was that such a situation has only been accelerated on the basis of international institutions. The monitoring function was thus not performed. The key is to identify the origin of the bank's hole, because the banks have caused this bank hole and the transfer of funds to the so-called bad bank is further blurring the discovery of the bank's own hole. The banks themselves transferred certain loans to a bad bank. How and how they chose these loans is unknown to us. Internal controls did not work; even more, banks are now investigating what went wrong, based on contracts concluded with the private sector. We Members of the National Assembly cannot see what was happening in the banks. So, private people can watch this, those who caused the bank hole can watch it, the competent ones who could do something, and they can't do it because we're hiding under bank secrecy. Where are we moving to the so-called Bank Claims Management Company? If the hole was caused by large players in the financial market in the world, for me the 19th product of derivatives is the bank itself; the bad bank is the product of those who invented the financial institutions that brought us into this crisis. So whoever caused the crisis will also be solving the crisis itself. I think that's what others have to do. What's the problem? The problem we mentioned on the board is the management of a bad bank. It's a single system that we imported from America, and we have a continental system, and these two systems are shivering, so control isn't working. The administration was partially dissolved, and the government did not explain exactly why it was resolved. The main reason was too high wages, but these very high salaries were also paid by other employees in the administration and they have been operating in this administration for more than half a year, and they could have warned about this. As the debaters have already pointed out before me, the problem is certain that are still in the administration of the bad bank, in that they are in a wider conflict of interest, not under the Company Act, but under the Anti-Corruption Act, because they create a form of bias because they are involved in related transactions. One of them denied us even twice that he had no contact or contact, and on the other hand, for the third time admitted that he had already been involved in the business. We also witnessed the continuation of these links yesterday, if we see new faces in SDH, people who are connected or have been employed in companies that are either in liquidation or in proceedings before a bad bank have now been given SDH functions. Also, some who have been employed or have worked in the leading party of Mira Cerar are now employed in some companies that control tourism and in which Sava has a majority share. We have not cleared up these very questions. The key issues, the key wealth in Slovenia, are open to us; it is who will occupy the capitals in DUTB, the capitals in SDH, the capitals in Kadu and the related Blue Insurance Office. We can see that the footage in these places is accelerating. I have already mentioned in this House before the holidays the disputed staffing of SDH, but at the time none of the coalition was against, but they raised their hands, this staffing continued yesterday and we are witnessing the removal of some persons in a bad bank and the continuation of the staffing and the closure of the assets that Slovenia has left behind is ahead of us. In view of all the above, I wonder what will happen next. Dr. Arhar warned us that the global crisis is being solved with the new money that is coming. I am afraid that despite the findings of the Bank of Slovenia, in what way has happened in banks before, similar financial instruments are happening now, by not going to banks that far, but going to financial markets. In view of the above and in view of the Minister's statements that he knows what is going on, I ask the President of the Government whether he knows or does not know what is going on in Slovenia, how he is being recruited and whether informal networks influence such recruitment. If we knew exactly what was going on, we would be able to prevent such entourage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u12	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! A company to manage bank receivables or a shorter DUTB or a negotiablely poor bank was set up in March 2013 as a state-owned company. The legal basis for the establishment has enabled the adoption of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, the shorter the ZUKSB, whose improvements are currently in the parliamentary process. The establishment of a bad bank was one of the possible concepts for establishing the most effective tool for the rehabilitation of banks in difficulty. The DUTB delegation shall provide for the management of seized assets under the rules of the business and financial profession and the highest ethical standards of management. It must adopt a proactive and cooperative attitude and a comprehensive approach to the restructuring of companies and the management of assets, following the objective of divestment at the best possible price. All of the above is expected to be justified by the DUTB, since this is regulated by both applicable legislation and certain acts adopted by the Government or the competent institutions. Today, we have a proposal for a recommendation to the Court of Auditors to review the legality and cost-effectiveness of decision-making procedures in specific cases, Save, T-2, Autotechne, whose bad claims have been transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company. Let me already point out in the opening that the Court of Auditors has no doubt the authority to carry out the audit of the operations of the DUTB as the conditions laid down are met: the DUTB is a user of public funds and is a company in which the State has a majority share. While it is true that the National Court of Auditors Act allows it to submit proposals for the implementation of the audit in a particular calendar year, it is also appropriate to highlight the legal provision which specifically obliges the Court of Auditors, in the case of the DUTB, to revise operations every year, namely Article 19 of the ZUKSB. Any arbitration regarding the implementation or non-implementation of the regular audit shall not be possible as the audit must be included in the annual audit plan of the Court of Auditors. The recommendation of the National Assembly to further propose the implementation of the DUTB audit is therefore not necessary. As has already been said, it is already stipulated by the law, and this is the law that was passed in this house. The question that arises is whether, perhaps now, the National Assembly will impose not only on which companies are being reviewed, which is legitimate, but even on the verification of the specific procedures or decisions taken by the management of an individual company or organisation. And if the Court of Auditors does not discover anything when there is nothing to be discovered, then it will continue to discredit those who carried out the audit, which inevitably requires a public catharsis in such or other form, which is what happens in our policy. So, the question is, where does this end and whether, perhaps, we do not show that we do not trust institutions that have the expertise to check and judge critical events objectively. In our view, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is autonomous and competent in its field. The powers and duties are clear. As has already been said, the DUTB has to revise, since this is required by law, it is not a choice. On the basis of the experience we have, however, we can rightly expect them to scrutinise, on the basis of professional judgement and doubt, those parts of the business for which there are indications that it would be reasonable to sieve them and then, where irregularities might occur, also give appropriate warning and propose measures. We will then receive reports, in accordance with the practice we have run out, from the members of the competent committee of the National Assembly or, if necessary, the entire National Assembly. How do we in the SMC present transparency in the case of DUTB? All decision-making processes must be documented to the extent that the key moments, facts and circumstances in force at the time of the decision-making can be subsequently reconstructed. This establishes an audit trail that can be subsequently verified and clearly ascertains whether the determining officer has acted on a case-by-case basis in accordance with expectations as a good master. Equally aware that decisions bring with them responsibility and effective control to detect possible negligence or intentionally harmful acts also entail sanctions or measures, provide an additional assurance that they will work in the interests of the companies entrusted with management. If we continue to think of transparency, let us point out that transparency is certainly not seen as a continuous public polarisation of different public decisions on the basis of unverified information and without knowing the specific facts and circumstances of the individual case, and then taking action on the basis of media or public inertia, even before concrete facts and circumstances are checked. This is the way three important dangers are created. Fear of decision-making and thus a spasm of decision-making, since any decision may constitute a public lynching, which may result in the cessation of decision-making. We are already familiar with this from politics, officialism, state companies, when it is preferable to do nothing, rather than make a mistake in any case, or even to be exposed as wrong decisions by those who were right. Another time. Direct pressure on decision - making by those who should act in the interests of society and who, because of their desire to be complacent or burdensome, intervene in the course of wrong decisions. So instead of deciding between decisions that are in the best interests of society, they can start to bend in a way that relieves pressure. This begins to move away from difficult decisions to the detriment of all of us. Third time. Additional burdens brought by the continuous response and clarification of projects and decisions in progress, which removes focus from the core work. At the same time, communication takes place at many levels, from the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly, from the media to individuals. Effective control is therefore the first to act preventively, then in terms of effective curativity, which is brought by the high response of supervisors or owners and at the same time allows for the smoothest possible performance of the tasks. In a specific case, this means that, at the level of management and employees of the DUTB, there is no doubt that, if there are harmful consequences resulting from their intentional or demeaning conduct, there will be an ex-post review by the competent institutions, an assessment of the appropriateness of the conduct and, if necessary, measures, with control acting with a minimum impact on the company’s day-to-day operation. Therefore, we consider it inappropriate or even harmful to consider continuous polarisation and mass calls for investigations during or before the decision-making process, which at times can also be understood as interference with the DUTB decision-making autonomy and as an attempt to influence the way that would be inconsistent with the DUTB mission. In such a case, what we do not want to do is to make a decision where there is no jurisdiction or responsibility. DUTB is an autonomous institution established for a specific purpose. Its management is responsible for a successful business and they have an objective responsibility for the decisions they make. For us, it is essential, as it is said, that legislation is regulated in a way that allows later verification of decisions and whether it is a mistake that has proved itself to be on the basis of a later change of facts and circumstances, or because of errors in the process or even intentional action. For this purpose, the competent institutions which have already been entrusted must carry out their duties. In accordance with the recommendation presented by the SMC Group, we do not support the implementation of the regular annual audit of the DUTB by the Court of Auditors. Any failure to carry out the audit if the recommendation under consideration is not accepted today is therefore out of the question. Decisions on how to proceed to the audit and on which specific cases to audit and to judge, we leave the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to the Court of Auditors, since this is the responsibility and responsibility of the Court of Auditors. We believe that, on the basis of experience and professional competence, as so far as the audit has done, it will inform the Commission of the National Assembly on Public Finance Control, in accordance with its existing legislation and practice. In this particular context, let us point out that the Bank Claims Management Company, as the key institution for the stabilisation of the banking system and the restructuring of over-indebted enterprises, must remain firmly committed to its mission and continue its work. But it remains our duty and commitment to enable it to function as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are considering the Company for Bank Claims Management or, in other words, the so-called bad bank. In doing so, I think it is necessary to say or focus on a number of things. First of all, we must not confuse cause and effect. We must not forget why the Bank's Claims Management Company was actually set up. After all, it was not easy to establish this society or not to have a very broad debate, to request the Constitutional Court, to request a referendum and a decision at the time, to decide that those bad claims arising from the Slovenian banking system would be made on the basis of poor credits, to say so, insufficiently secured loans, inadequate loans, some also due to the fact that people were simply too familiar with each other, friendly, cooperative relations, not least on the basis of capital links, related links, etc. In short, these credits, which were given, became bad and state banks, mostly state banks, could no longer manage them and, of course, in their balance sheets these unpaid loans became a very heavy burden. Such a burden that these banks were no longer eligible for capital over a certain period of time and that they had very large losses. At that time, the question was whether these bad loans and these bad claims could be managed by the same banks, after all, most of the same people who caused these loans, whether these bad claims, including insurance, etc., were transferred to a special society. At that time, it was decided to transfer these bad claims to a special society to ensure the great independence of this society, so that most foreigners in this society, which, of course, I will say, are not susceptible or less receptive, however you wish, to the various networks operating in Slovenia. Thus, a law, a special law setting out, inter alia, the purpose of this company, was to achieve the maximum payment of taxpayers' money, because these banks that did so were mostly state banks. It is said that as much as possible to repay money to taxpayers over a certain period of time, of course through a mechanism, through the fact that this money is also provided to the banking system. Another important provision is when we are talking about a company to manage bank claims: it has seven years to do so. And another provision which is important and which is in law and which must be followed by the board of directors is that it must sell at least 10% of the assets it owns each year. These are the legal provisions. That is why, of course, they have asked whether this should be sold faster or slower, without the proposed amendment of the law, I must say, quite inappropriate because the law just states that. Of course, if we are talking about a Slovenian bank hole, then we must say that on the basis of the stress test carried out by the international institutions and, of course, with the support of the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and with the support of the companies that are actually carrying out these stressful tests, it was found that the capital deficit in Slovenian banks was 4 billion 778 million and that, of course, the recapitalisation of the three banks was needed then, then some other banks, the Factor Bank and Probanks added it, but then it was considered to be three major state banks: NLB, NKBM, partly also Abanka, 3 billion euros. This happened, together with the fact that the DUTB had recapitalised itself, that the money had been given to the Factor Bank and Probank or guarantees, and that it was then a total of 5 billion. As a result of the poor claims in these state banks, which were poorly managed and because they were bad loans, the Bank of Slovenia was created by the Bank of Slovenia, and also on the basis of the fact that the Bank of Slovenia was not aware of the actual situation in the banking system. Remember the statements made by the Bank of Slovenia's top representatives that everything is in order in the Slovenian banking system, that it is stable and so on. Poor loans are the reason that this Bank Claims Management Company was created. Today, this society is subject to many controversy, including its decisions; today this society is being reviewed from the front and the back. On the other hand, we still have institutions in the Slovenian system that are not reviewed by anyone; the Bank of Slovenia is not reviewed by anyone other than commercial audit companies. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly has the right, the possibility and, in essence, the requirement that it be able to review the Bank of Slovenia, but that does not happen. The Commission may adopt any review decisions for the supervision of public finances. Here the Court of Auditors will make a request, get an objection; in short, the National Assembly cannot control the operation of the Bank of Slovenia, except in the sense of submitting an annual report and nothing else. With regard to correctness, about economy, about legality, about everything the Court of Auditors does, it's not. However, Banka Slovenije was the reason for this and the actions of Banka Slovenije at the time for the fact that the Bank of Slovenia's claim management company was set up to be reviewed, and it is the same and should be reviewed further, but the institutions still remain here, which are not reviewed. And it is only so that, of course, the Bank of Slovenia can be reviewed, for example, by Nova Ljubljanska Banka! Here I agree with Mr Dobovška's opinion, but now in this bank, where they have been created and where the most bad loans have been made, where the most bad claims have been made and so on, credit maps are reviewed on the basis of or with the help of private companies. Here is this paradox in this country that simply those who have caused this bank hole can now and themselves examine and self-deprive good and bad credits and can solve their own banking crisis; I am afraid that by the next banking crisis, when again the taxpayers are asked to do something. Here's the question of what could happen. Of course, the DUTB comes in handy, for example, when the Minister of Finance explains in Washington that Slovenia is on the right track and it is also that the interpretation, I have nothing to do with the fact that the pension reform, the labour legislation, was adopted in 2013, 2012, is now functioning SDH, we privatise and that the Company for the Management of Bank Claims works, these international institutions that have finally supported the establishment of the Bank Claims Management Company. On the other hand, there is also a bit of a machete's attitude towards regulating the situation mainly by amending legislation – well, what the Court of Auditors points out in essence is not only the Company for the Management of Bank Claims but also the Government. And today, as they happen, I can say, changes in the human resources field or in some way also the human rights tsunamis, both in the Banks Management Company, when simple foreigners, those who initially guaranteed independence, are no longer desirable. I mean not only the last two changes here, but also the previous two changes, when people who have experienced and have a career in international institutions, the IMF and so on, were simply replaced because they were foreigners – if we are talking about the changes in March 2013 – when the networks appear to be simple – I will only talk about networks, I do not know which – they take over the human resources policy in the government and state institutions. I don't know if the Minister of Finance and other ministers are following this or not, but maybe this should be ensured. The Minister of Finance always has the opportunity to propose through the government anything relating to the DUTB. Finally, it may also propose to simplify the whole matter of the DUTB operating for 3 years instead of 7 years, totalling 3 years. After all, what the DUTB will not sell will then pass on to SDH and the matter will be over; not because I would want it to. Only in view of the relationship that actually exists today, and given the changes in staff, I see this possibility that if someone does not like it, he can simply do so by ensuring full control of this institution. Where these claims may go, these companies, which are now at DUTB, are, of course, more options: they can be set up, because of me, including the special Ministry of Bad Claims, and everything will be under the Ministry and there is no problem. But here with just some human resources changes that are taking place because they're going on, I don't think that's going to work out. Probably not, I agree, with the excessive involvement of politics and the National Assembly in the decisions of the DUTB, which can be completely commercial, can be disputed – let the judicial authorities decide. Whether we are satisfied now or not, of course, is another question, we have what we have, but the solutions are here. And the solutions will simplify the whole thing. In Slovenia we are, it seems, also in the business field of society, a country that is very difficult to accept foreigners, who are very difficult to take a different view, which is difficult to make different decisions such as ours, or perhaps all these networks are difficult to accept, which today, I think, greatly affect decisions, including what is going on in the National Assembly, which points are being considered and so on. These are questions and solutions on the table; the matter can be simplified very quickly with the full control of all institutions in the country over these institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Greetings to the Minister and a good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of the operation of the Bank Claims Management Company, d. d., in conjunction with companies and companies whose bank claims have been transferred to the Bank Management Company, d. d. Your Honor! We have before us a recommendation from the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which proposes that the Court of Auditors review the legality and cost-effectiveness of the decision-making procedures of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims in the case of three specific undertakings. Such a recommendation from the Commission for the supervision of public finances in the Desus Group in the majority will not be supported, as it is contrary to the principle of policy non-interference in the activities of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. We are aware that the work of DUTB is not simple. Its work, compared with the work of a trauma clinic, often interferes with existing ownership relationships, as claims are transformed into capital shares and the influence of shareholders is reduced. The Commission's meeting on the supervision of public finances, at which the proposal for a recommendation was adopted, was expected to be full of accusations of fraud between the DUTB representatives and the owners of those companies. In the Desus Group, we think it is appropriate that DUTB, with the amendment of the law currently under consideration, will be given the opportunity to restructure the companies to which it has taken over the claims. This will not focus solely on maximising profits, but will help to restructure firms in difficulty. But it's happening. The DUTB has recently submitted a request to the District Court in Ljubljana to transfer the powers of the debtor to the creditor. DUTB argues that the company in question is insolvent and that it has lost confidence in leadership’s ability to conduct the restructuring of the holding company, although part of the company is successful and strategically important for the country. We therefore believe that it is essential that we do not interfere with the functioning of the DUTB and leave the Court of Auditors to exercise sovereign control over the legality, purpose, cost-effective and efficient use of the DUTB resources on the basis of Article 19 of the Act on Measures to Strengthen the Stability of Banks every year. The recommendation that the Court of Auditors review the legality and accountability of the decision-making procedures in the cases of certain undertakings would, in our view, constitute a direct interference of the policy with the activities of the DUTB. However, we oppose this in the Desus Group, which is why the proposal for a recommendation adopted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, although we understand the role of the Commission, will not be supported in the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u18	Madam Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State! Since its establishment in the public, DutB has been a project that we can already identify as one of those who are most likely never to have a synchronized or unified opinion. The main purpose of maximising the value of claims and shares taken with the aim of repaying taxpayers from the outset is to monitor positive effects on the increased confidence of the financial markets in the Republic of Slovenia and on the other hand the controversial decision, the suspicion of corruption, non-economic behaviour and the feeling that DUTB is not only a participant in the restructuring processes, the coordinator of banks and creditors, but that it is also another battle of interest in one of the last stories of the Slovenian transition. It is therefore extremely important that the DUTB is not left to itself, and it is essential that both the Government and other institutions and authorities of the State responsible for this exercise exercise exercise thorough supervision and appropriate action, when it is important to ensure a basic objective, be the payment of taxpayers and taxpayers, and thus the minimum possible achievement required if the expected return on capital, which was trusted by the DUTB, is not already expected to be achieved. Social Democrats are thus assessed that the Government did the right thing when it decided to change the work of the DUB leadership, as it has made clear that controversial business practices, including the seduction of the owner, in the Republic of Slovenia are not acceptable and cannot be tolerated on behalf of citizens and citizens and their interests. Regardless of the urgent intervention that the Government has carried out, we must continue to ensure the high degree of independence of operation both DUTB and SDH, and we must prevent one or the other from becoming a story. [[Incomprehensible]] It is not possible to pretend that any intervention in the leadership of such a significant institution does not cause a reaction on the part of both foreign financiers and domestic stakeholders. For this reason, the Social Democrats expect us to do everything in the country to calm the situation and to allow the expected and normal functioning of the DUTB, while at the same time we expect the Court of Auditors, in accordance with Article 19 of the ZUKSB, to continue to exercise thorough supervision of the operations of the DUTB. Thus, the policy objective remains to act when necessary and to withdraw when it is time to withdraw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. On behalf of the proposaler Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Of course, we are talking about a very hot topic, which, if we look at from the point of view of the ordinary viewer of daily politics, is the second most important topic of the moment in addition to the migration crisis; well, now we will be dealing with the Slovenian State Holding. But there are two separate stories inside this hot topic. First story. In all cases of transfer of claims, does the DUTB act in accordance with the principles established by it? Another story, which is, however, an intervention by the Government or a minor or uncomplained substitution, is the resolution of two leaders in the DUTB. The first two separate stories, but the common denominator, if you want, of all the assumptions of the whole story is the same: interest and influence over almost two billion euro claims. The core of everything was a bank hole. For the introduction, allow me to describe what the mission of the DUTB is. For DUTB, which was established in 2013, we referred to five or four apostolics. Firstly, to stabilise the Slovenian financial sector by implementing the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks by taking poor funds from systemically important banks. Secondly, to promote confidence in the financial system and to act in accordance with the highest international standards of corporate governance. Thirdly, achieve the highest possible cashable value of purchased claims. Fourthly, facilitate and promote sustainable economic restructuring in the Republic of Slovenia. In short, a bad bank, we call it a bad bank, or the Company for Bank Claims Management was set up to stabilise the Slovenian financial sector and give the economy in the Republic of Slovenia a new impetus. We have said and repeated several times in New Slovenia today; Nova Slovenija perceives a bad bank as the best possible solution to manage inherited claims well and quality. It is also with this purpose that Nova Slovenija has been so excited advocate of the establishment of a bad bank and we are also its advocate today. Other countries in the European Union that have experienced similar difficulties have in fact set up a bad bank for the acquisitions of claims. Indeed, this method has generally proved to be very effective and, in fact, Slovenian policy has been well shaken by the establishment of a bad bank in a long process by a certain consensus, but the establishment of a bad bank was then well shaken by Slovenian political space. Let me remind you that in December 2012 a group of Members has already collected signatures for the referendum invitation. Although cases around the world, as I said before, speak in favour of the resolution of the banking system with the help of the so-called bad bank, are bad banks in Slovenia, and even today, some have shriveled with all four. Here is the question on the ground why we have so many advocates in this country, and on the other hand skeptics to a bad bank, but a common denominator, of course there are more reasons, but the first reason is for certain that some will have too little power to manage these companies, which have not finally fallen in the face of a financial crisis. Our government has passed a law on a bad bank and also any further operational intervention for its operation has been carried out by the next government, the government of Alenka Bratušek. So, at the time of the adoption of the legislation itself, the political space was dominated by the majority belief that the establishment of the so-called bad bank was a good or only solution for the stabilisation of the banking system. In spite of this fact, we cannot, and as a result, the operation of its measures should also lead to the removal of the credit crunch and the relaunch of the economy in Slovenia. In this context, let me point out that the vision of the operation of the DUTB includes the creation of a healthy and well-managed business supported by investments that will ensure profitability and growth beyond the Republic of Slovenia, but respectable ladies, respected gentlemen, respected minister, after the first two years of the operation of the bad bank, we cannot, after this fact, strengthen in the professional and general public the disappointment of individual actions and decisions, thereby losing confidence in the Slovenian space. Indeed, the confidence of citizens in such an important institution as DUTB is of paramount importance. To the opinion of most of the distinguished experts in the field of finance, law, economy, we have also joined the proponents of that urgent meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. But, let me point out, we are proposing this moment, as it seems, also the biggest advocates of the operation of the bad bank. But it is right to dispel, even in the context of today’s session – for this reason, Mr Minister, thank you for your participation in the meeting – to dispel all doubts about the functioning of the bad bank. That is also why today's meeting is convened, for we do not care that the way or that the way a bad bank operates does not always seem to be based on values such as honesty, which in some cases has also been established by the court. Indeed, the undeniable fact is that within the restructuring process, the DUTB has become an increasingly important player in the Slovenian economic space. This is also how it decides which companies are worth solving, how and who to sell them to, and for which there is no real hope. However, as I have already said, there is no way to get rid of the feeling that the DUB unfortunately does not always follow the interest that practically created it. Certain examples thus suggest that DUTB could work in a specific interest and increasingly for a well-known buyer of these companies, which is further supported by media records, statements by some representatives of the economy and, unfortunately, also by increasing public references that have not been reputably rejected. In recent times, it has been in the media and the public's power to track cases where DUTB has proposed or announced one of the existing insolvency proceedings, i.e. bankruptcy or forced settlement, against some Slovenian companies. This is the case for companies or companies to which DUTB has non-profitable claims and has therefore been transferred from the bank to a so-called bad bank, which, given the assurance of their management, owners or financial statements, operate positively and even generate profits and seem to be able to pay these debts themselves. Also at a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, the DUTB has proved to be of limited partial interest in individual cases. Let us recall this most significant event, in my opinion, at that meeting, when the Executive Director, Mr Janez Škrube, questioned by Ambassador Alenk Bratušek, if there is a conflict of interest in the case of T-2, of course denied this. Later, in the course of this same meeting, this gentleman in question was caught first in the deception and then in the lie. The gentleman said: "I have no conflict of interest in the case of T-2." That's not true. When Mr Skruj was still employed in another company, he even lobbied to sell the T-2 to the customer concerned, and this finding at the meeting was not denied by this gentleman, Mr Skrubej, but despite the replacement of the DUB leadership, this gentleman is one of those who remains and has the confidence of the Government. In short, it was a conflict of interest and it was absolutely unsavoury. Let me list only three cases which leave much doubt that the DUB decisions are in accordance with the purposes or are not in accordance with the purposes for which the DUB was established. We know all these cases if you're just watching radio sets and television. It's the best case for Save. See, after reporting to the Sava media, the consequences of the announced process are now threatening due to violent changes in the ownership and staffing structure, and it is increasingly said in the background that an angry fight should take place, who will restructure this Sava parent company, d. o. o. I don't want to define myself, because I don't know things, and that's not the intention of the MP, or the parliamentary group, or Parliament. Next T-2, second case. The management of the DUTB was questioned primarily from the point of view of the prudence and economic eligibility in relation to the T-2. Indeed, the DUTB, despite the fact that the court – I emphasise – has reversed the claim that the company’s bankruptcy was being claimed, although it is operating positively through publicly available data and business guarantees, the EBITDA has been increasing in recent years and even in the view of the Chief Executive Director of DUTB – is being considered to be a profitable company, but the DUTB, as the only acceptable solution, refers to the company’s bankruptcy and its subsequent sale, and the public do not satisfactorily explain the reasons for such a decision. In fact, it is also an incomprehensible procedure for the decision of the courts. The latest findings have been made by the Constitutional Court when, months ago, on a proposal from the owners of the company, which, with professional opinions, appears to prove that there are no economic reasons for bankruptcy, even until the final decision, it has suspended the insolvency proceedings imposed by the Supreme Court in August of this year. The question is therefore raised in these cases whether these companies are fit to continue to repay debts owed to taxpayers. In these cases, it seems that these companies may be capable of doing so and therefore the bankruptcy procedure does not apply. The third case, which was previously employed by the domestic public, is the case of the compulsory settlement of Autotehna, d.d. In this case, too, in the media, powders, it was possible to detect the surprise of the professional public over the introduction of the forced settlement procedure initiated at the request of the DUTB, thereby improving the ratings of subsidiaries and achieving a medium-term positive impact on their operations. So these examples, I stress, are only three which are the most resilient in the public and which are supposed to point to the departure of the DUB from the role it was set up for. In addition, in doubt, DUB's decisions also arose in the event that I recall Aero, d.d., where the public were upset by the fact that the DUB had been bankrupt, although many customers were interested in it. Therefore, in view of the above, I stress that it is not possible to avoid the feeling that DUTB wants to put itself in a superior position in relation to all the other creditors and, irrespective of the way in which claims are secured and their lack of maturity, to pay them as a priority. However, there is a particularly obvious difference in the performance of the company and its financial situation between its management on the one hand and the DUTB on the other. Here is what the Association of Banks of Slovenia, which adopted the Slovenian principles of financial debt restructuring in the economy, prepared by banks in cooperation with Banka Slovenija and the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the principles of corporate debt restructuring in Slovenia, the Association of Managers. Some of you call this a free file, and I hope that the Ministry of Finance does not write free files, but their basic assumption is that economic activity must be maintained wherever there is a reasonable possibility that the activity is able to survive on the market. However, for the success of these principles, it is essential that they are taken into account and respected by all stakeholders in the restructuring process. The starting points of the principles state that the restructuring of corporate debt, capable of survival in a competitive market environment, outside the insolvency proceedings in favour of creditors, debtors, employees, shareholders and the Slovenian economy is entirely meaningful because I quote, "minimise the losses of all stakeholders by means of a coordinated approach to restructuring and avoid bankruptcy of companies introduced without adequate analysis and reflection." Also in line with the so-called London approach formulated by the British Central Bank in the early 1990s, when the pressures of indebtedness and economic crisis were faced by British companies, creditors should respond with discretion as soon as the debtor has announced or becomes more widely known that the debtor has been in financial trouble and has started talks with banks. Indeed, in no case should we, without considering giving up the company's support, initiate insolvency proceedings or require early repayment of the debtor's obligations. In addition, Dr. France Arhar, director of the Association of Banks of Slovenia and in banking circles, the so-called authority, said with regard to DUTB that it should not only look at the price but also at the wider impact of the individual decision on society. I quote: 'There is no way that the price can be the first objective, but other effects must be taken into account, such as the impact in the region on employment, social transfers. I may be wrong, but since the state has been involved in the transfer of claims and since the state is the owner of DUB, SDH and the largest banks and debtors, it seems to me that there is no common policy and that everyone is working for their own ends. The element of time should not be the use of taxpayers to provide only money for the budget as soon as possible," stressed Dr France Arhar on 27 March of this year in the World of Capital magazine. So the objectives sometimes pursued by DUTB are diametrically opposite, which certainly casts a shadow of doubt on the correctness and validity of the DUB decision itself. This also reduces the public's confidence in this important institution, which has been established, including with the help of our client, with precise objectives and its establishment, of course, supported, in the long process, all the parliamentary parties of the day. The DUB is operating now with almost two billion euros, and I also argue that it is not always possible to feel that it follows the interest to find the best buyer for inherited claims, but also the partial interests of certain individuals, and one example we have already revealed through this parliamentary procedure through the parliamentary procedure on the Commission itself, this is the case of Janez Škrube. In order for this to happen, more control is needed, so it is necessary to amend the legislation itself. This is also pointed out by the Court of Auditors, but unfortunately to this day – more than half a year has passed since the Court of Auditors’ warnings – we are still not in the process of amending the legislation. The so-called bad bank must not move away from its core mission, so it is all the more important that the National Assembly discusses this. Therefore, it is nothing more than a suggestion to the Court of Auditors, which is, of course, responsible for carrying out an audit on these cases that have been exposed to public reconciliation. So this is the first part we're talking about at DUTB. So we are saying that DUTB does not always pursue the interest it was created for, but sometimes also the partial interest of individuals. And the second part, when it seems that the concept of the operation of a bad bank has somehow been turned by the government itself, by replacing or resolving two leaders in a bad bank, an executive and a non-executive director, in the opinion of the public and some in this national assembly in a completely unqualified way. In doing so, I would like to reiterate the basic fact that the Bank Management Company, a bad bank, was set up primarily to stabilise the financial system or our banking system, to remove the credit crunch and relaunch the Slovenian economy. But there is a question of how independent the functioning of the DUTB will be in the future, especially in the light of recent events. In fact, the dismissal of two members of the DUTB board, Mr Nyberg and Mr Münsson, as I have already said, has been done without a proper argument and in this place I claim that it is justified that the reason for replacing these two leaders was not salaries and benefits, but, above all, the impact of lobbying and networks. This is confirmed even after last night's meeting when SDH's leadership was replaced. The DUB is currently operating with almost two billion euros and, of course, those who are allegedly the most guilty, I am allegedly the most guilty, for the resulting bank hole and, as a result, for the creation of a bad bank, of course, have an interest in regaining control over these funds. The government first stated that there was a lack of confidence as a reason for the resolution, and then the argument was that it was illegal. But watch out! At the same time, the government says the DUB is doing well. Well, she's replaced the government with someone who's doing good. It's illogical! So, at the same time as the government claims that the DUB is doing well, it replaces someone, which is not the wisest and most weighty move. You haven't replaced what's in your eyes with the entire board of directors. In fact, the other members, not only Mr Nyberg and Mr Münsson, were aware of everything that was going on in the DUTB, about all these alleged illegalities, but, on the contrary, they received your trust, despite the fact that they were misleading and lying at the meetings of the Commission in the National Assembly. So, as the President of the Government said, which was negative, we changed, and our positives remain. So the way the government has resolved the two leaders is not the right one, or perhaps despite good intentions, if you have made a real choice in this case, it does not inspire confidence that the DUTB mission will continue to search for the best buyers for inherited claims. In view of the fact that the largest coalition party in the pre-election period highlighted the rule of law and the fight against corruption, the public rightly wonders whether the government will open any investigation and investigate the above-mentioned pressures in the event of pressure on the DUTB. Now I will quote Mr Nyberg here; that is, Mr Nyberg says, "Mr. Marble is to me a month ago," now more than that, "well before the issue of wages again appeared in the press, he said that there was a strong increase in pressure to get rid of Mr. Münsson over the summer. At the beginning of the previous week, non-executive directors were asked to draw up a management replacement plan as soon as possible. There was an affair about payments that created an excuse for cancelling contracts." This is a statement by the decommissioned Chairman of the DUB Board of Lars Nyberg, which was published by the media on the very day that the Public Finance Supervisory Commission took office. In fact, the contents of both letters of the resolved Nyberg are quite horrifying. If there's nothing in the letter that says the pressure has happened, Mr. Minister, you have to react and deny it. Following an oral question from the Prime Minister, the President of the Government told me that the Ministry of Finance had done so – it had demented me. That's true, but you avoided it on the issue of journalists and journalists. You didn't want to answer that question about 14 days ago whether you agreed to that decision. It is precisely because the argument is so different or contradictory that there is reason to fear that the government has bowed down to the pressures that have been achieved in replacing Mr Nyberg and Mr Münsson. Let me get on with it. In the spring, the government appointed new executive directors in the DUTB, including Mr Marko Simoneti, this is the same gentleman who has been in the NLB since 2009 who has now succeeded Mr Nyberg at the head of the DUTB Management Board. At that time, you said that the new executives were appointed to eliminate all the anomalies that occurred in the operation of the DUTB. Since then, it has been more than half a year and the DUTB anomalies are still happening. However, the new Executive Directors appear to still have confidence in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, even though they have not carried out their mission. Therefore, again rightly, the impression is that the Government has resolved those who are disturbing – in this case Nyberg and Münsson – and those who are, in their own words, "ours", who we have named remain in positions. So if Mr Simoneti and the team you named failed to remove the DUTB anomaly in six months, even though they knew about them, it is really unclear where they have such unswerving government confidence. Let me finish. The whole story about the Bank Claims Management Company is very complicated. On the one hand, the government, without any real argument, relieves individuals, giving the impression that this is only about who will manage two billion euros. On the other hand, the DUTB, as I initially said, in certain cases follows narrow partial interests. But the essential or conclusion of the whole story should, of course, be that the government begins to exercise control over the whole event and in doing so, I believe, on the whole opposition with New Slovenia at the head, if necessary. In fact, with yesterday’s decision, which has been speculated in the media for at least 14 days – a change or way of changing SDH’s leadership – there is a renewed impression that DUTB has begun, SDH continues. It is the same people, in one way or another, in their essence, in the background, as Mr Dobovšek said, networks and lobbyes, which are connected and these same people are, of course, accomplices, that we are talking about a bad bank today. In fact, it is increasingly evident that those who once participated in the creation of this large bank hole are gaining influence. I propose to the government that the DUTB restore credibility to put the DUTB back on these sound foundations, because the DUTB is urgently needed to stabilise and restart our economy. In the search for new leadership, use the way Dr. Janez Šuštaršič used, which he somehow said in the media, I did not want to choose the Slovenians who are extremely intertwined with these networks that we have already touched today, but we were looking for this foreigner. If you choose to be an expert at home, have a really strong lamp to look for in the middle of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Cousin. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. I have already said in my opening address that I will try to explain in the debate all the changes that have been made by the Government during the period of the DUTB. Before I go to that, maybe there's only one background left, because a lot of backgrounds have been painted here for the DUTB. If we compare DUTB with other bad banks, we see two key differences that put our DUTB in a particularly difficult position. The first difference is the structure of the bad investments our DUTB has. Our DUTB has mostly claims on companies, while the Spanish, Irish bad bank has mainly real estate. This is a huge difference from the point of view of managing the portfolio of these assets, which the bad bank has. Managing bad claims is much harder than managing and adding real estate. From this point of view, this is the first difference. The second difference is who owns the bad bank, whether the bad bank is owned by the majority private or by the majority state. While there are many other bad banks in majority private ownership, ours is in majority public ownership. The examples of good practice that we have tried to collect from other bad banks have not been entirely appropriate. We were looking for our mode of vivendi in the structure of both the assets of these bad claims and ownership, which will make this bad bank both efficient and cost-effective. Given that it was publicly owned, however, we should practically meet all standards of transparency without corruption risks and, of course, high ethics. They both don't always go together. The private sector is operating much more efficiently, less transparently, and, on the other hand, with the same tasks, the extremely difficult structure of funds that the bad bank has had should achieve extraordinary results. If we look at it, in 2015, 2016, 2017, the bad bank should cash 500 million euros each year in order to pay a billion and a half in three years, the number of bonds issued to banks. This is an extraordinary task, if not done, it would be a transfer somewhere else; it is said, as it was said, either at SDH or anywhere. This is a lot of trouble, of course, because we have guarantees for these bonds that have been issued to banks. So our bad bank, as it is set up, is an extremely difficult structure, a very difficult task and on the other hand a very difficult task for the government, which must seek this balance between efficiency and transparency on the other hand. We have not come to know this, as the previous government and the previous government have already come to know it and have constantly complemented the rules governing the DUTB. As long as I look at what has been done since the previous government: the new, renewed DUB Statute, the DUTB guidelines have been adopted, the written positions and instructions of the IMF have been put in place, the concrete supervision of the IMF over the functioning of the DUTB, the monthly reporting, the regular meetings, the letters of the IMF, this has all been established since the previous government, which is, say, not the case with the Irish bad bank. When we took responsibility for the control of the DUTB, we were accompanied by both the government, the Ministry of Finance, the KPK, the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly, the public; they were all very closely monitoring what the DUTB was doing. There have been opinions that this and that it has either corruption risks or that it is not clear – for example, advisory contracts, if you remember – and so on. All of this has been answered by the government with a variety of changes in the environment, the rules in which DUTB operates. On 5 March, for example, the Government adopted amendments to the DURB Management Board, took note of the working draft of the new ZUKSB, which is now in your Parliament, and I hope that it will go through the procedure – a lot of you refer to this amendment – it confirmed the new remuneration policy, if you remember, with lower remuneration, it took note of the DUB business report 2014-2017 and confirmed the internal act of the processes and the decision-making powers of the DUTB committees, adopted the annual report and did not grant discharge to the Management Board for 2013 and then appointed an authorised auditor. This was only on the part of the government, and then at the same time requested the DUTB to regulate or increase the transparency of business by means of internal acts. For example, it had to adopt internal acts in relation to external advisers, where conditions are laid down that must be met: procedures, selection criteria, definitions of competences and responsibilities and so on. It adopted a code of conduct for external operators and business partners, a regulation on job systemisation, a code of conduct for employees, then we requested that it obtain a certificate of compliance in the field of anti-corruption by the French ETHICIntelligence Agency; in short, these measures were a whole series, then it adopted an integrity plan. Then this went on at 6. 9. where it adopted the annual DUTB report for 2014, then 6. Ten. 2015, you know that there has been a discharge of the President of the Management Board, and I must say that we have already explained everything. I have explained to the media why, and we have also explained about these pressures that are supposed to be me for the resolution of Münsson. This is an insinuation, which we have also clearly written from the Ministry of Finance. However, there were, of course, questions as to when Mr Münsson's salaries would be aligned with the remuneration policy. If this harmonisation is not achieved, some changes will have to be made. There is no doubt, however, that if the remuneration policy is adopted, it is also necessary to harmonise the salaries of executive and non-executive directors. You know that you now have in Parliament the amendment of the ZUKSB, which has a whole series of changes. What is the logic of these changes? The basic logic is this, we now have the operation of the DUTB only until 2017. So we have the pressure to cash for a billion and a half years, as I said. Many times it comes to the fact that this is a forced cashing, which can mean lower values. Therefore, it makes sense to extend until 2022, as we propose, and at the same time, if we achieve this, we can go from the goal of maximising the value of sales to an additional objective of restructuring businesses. Although we can now restructure by changing claims into equity shares, we do not have the possibility in DUTB to go and financially support the restructuring firms. Of course, if the duration of the DUTB was only until 2017, it makes no sense. It's got to be a longer deadline. Thus, there is a whole series of changes that allow for a change to some extent of the objective for the time being. Until this is accepted, the goal is only one, and a very clear goal: only maximising value and price. Because if it does not, we will pay from the budget, which will not be able to cash the DUTB. I'd like to give you a special warning here. At the same time, amendments to the Statute are being prepared, where we will regulate a new relationship between executive and non-executive directors and a number of other things; amendments to the guidelines that also follow these amendments to the ZUKSB. In short, at this time the regulation of the DUTB is constantly being adapted so that it can, on the one hand, be efficient and cost-effective and, on the other hand, so that its business is transparent, without corruption risks and, of course, with the highest standards of ethics. Maybe just a few more things that were mentioned. First, in terms of profitability, insolvency. The company can be profitable, but it's not solvable. So this argument is an empty argument. It is crucial whether or not it is solvable from the point of view of those who are creditors. The next thing is the question of who will be sold. In bankruptcy, DUTB now adheres to the principle that this sale is carried out by the bankruptcy manager on the basis of the determination of the court. So, he's not taking DUTB and there's no risk that the buyer would be known in advance. So much for me. Perhaps this is just the case with regard to these aberrations, as long as the vote ratio between executive and non-executive directors was as simple as those new directors, who were appointed in the spring of this year, were unable to achieve a pay adjustment in particular to the new remuneration policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, get Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. First of all, hello to the Minister. I'm glad that he's with us today and that there's something else I can explain. Even though we have talked practically countless times about why the bad bank, how it was created, and many times more we can ask ourselves, it was necessary, it was not necessary, it could be carried out in a different way. We can ask ourselves all that, but we're not going to change the facts. I did not support the law on the so-called bad bank myself as a Member, but at the time our banks took over the government were so in the end that there was no more time to look for a different, cheaper, more expensive, better, worse ways. That's a fact. And in 2015 it was not necessary to ask again, it was necessary, it was not necessary – I don't know if it makes any sense. On the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, I will say, the situation has become more tense from minute to minute. I think we're done there around 2:00 in the morning. Of course, there were more questions than there were answers, and we have therefore come to the conclusion that it is right for us to discuss them in the National Assembly. First of all, I'm going to touch the exchange of two people from the run of a bad bank. President Cerar is here, in this national council, saying you broke the law. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to hear from you whether that's true. Were you really breaking the law, and that was the reason for the dismissal? The perfectly legitimate reason is also that you no longer had confidence, as you said, but these are two different things. If they really broke the law, as I know, under the Company Act, the board of directors is a collective body, and if it really was a violation of the law, if I say bad, the price should also be paid by other supervisors. The fact that the new supervisors are yours, if I may say so, probably can't be the reason they're still where they are today. We dealt mainly with two stories on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. One was a T-2 and the other was a Sava. T-2 has been mentioned several times today, and the Minister, since you were not there, but you mentioned that Mr Skrubej should not have had a conflict of interest by accident, I suggest you look at the meeting or at least read the magnetogram. Maybe your opinion will be different. As far as Sava is concerned, d. d. Likewise today and in the past days, it has been said so much. This morning before this session, I took another look at the performance or the interview Mr Harjunpää gave for the Reflections, and I must say that some things are quite significant. A 250-million-dollar hole was supposed to be dug inside this multi-billion-dollar hole that had to be repaired by taxpayers. 250 million euros. Sava Holding is insolvent today. Why is this a strategic investment? Why is it so important? I think there's 15 people working there. Perhaps it would be good if you could explain such things to us. You probably have certain reasons, but it might be right to hear them here too. In the same interview, this gentleman said that in December the bad bank had helped Savi with a financial injection to survive at all, and that the Sava leadership had enjoyed the full trust of the bad bank. But they had a task to draw up a restructuring plan that would drink water. The restructuring plan they have drawn up – I do not know whether it is for the ministry or for the government or for anyone – that it is drinking water and that it is expected to pay off the debt at a rate of 1 % in the direction of a five-year delay. I believe that the Minister knows the costs of the bonds that the State has rented at that time or the bad bank – I think at least three to five times the amount of debt write-off. We should give 50 million to someone again. But here I absolutely agree that this probably doesn't drink water. I have already said on the committee, always, that the interests of the owners will always be different from those of the so-called bad bank. This same Mr Harjunpää said or said that they obviously stepped on a lot of blisters and had to leave. If things went wrong in a bad bank, it is absolutely necessary to react, but then it is necessary to react in all equally. Pika na i, if we are talking about Savi, but yesterday's appointment of the administration of the Slovenian State Holding Board and here I really cannot pass the feeling that it is not about saving the Sava, it is not about saving the Sava Turism, but it is about saving the society's leadership. I think that taxpayers deserve everything else; especially because Mr Cerar spoke at the elections about how he would resist the lobbying, how he would act against it – is what is happening at SDH and at the bad bank at the moment. Although, as an opposition member, I might be glad that every day we have more material to oppose or criticize the work of the government, the bad bank, SDH, in some ways, I am sad because, in fact, after one year, it appears that Mr Cerar has clearly found that without cooperation with the lobby he will not be able to rule for quite some time. I'm so really sad about this, and I think it's a shame. Finally, I would also like to ask the question myself, because I think it is so irrelevant, already colleague Dobovšek has pointed out that their colleague should, and I will say ugly, was not good enough for the Secretary of State because he was supposed to have problems using a scientific title, he got a job at the Bernardin Hotel. And look at the fraction, the President of the Management Board of the Hotels Bernardin yesterday becomes the President of the Board of the Slovenian State Holding! This is also a question for colleagues from the SMC, who really have your mouth full of ethics, of how to prevent systemic corruption and everything else. I'm worried. I'm worried about what's going on at this point in SDH, the bad bank and even the staffing in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor to prepare for Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mrs. Suzanne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State, welcome! We have talked about the so-called bad bank or DUTB many times in this meeting of the National Assembly, but it is only right that we speak, because, after all, it is a lot of money, tax money. First of all, let me remind you of the basic objective of DUTB, this is to get the maximum purchase from the sale of claims and assets. So all the claims and assets that were transferred to the so-called bad bank. Why do we even have this bad bank? In fact, we wouldn't have to have if in the past we didn't have loans, mostly in state banks, mostly in majority state-owned banks, on different friendly lines, if we didn't actually give out inadequately secured loans, and somehow our banking system had to be repaired, something had to be done, and this bad bank was the best possible solution at that time. Because, in any case, in order for the economy to function normally, we also need banks that will lend to the economy. It is true, however, that in Slovenia we are phenomenal, that there are still many banks, too many banks in majority state ownership, which is our problem for other companies. What's been going on at the DUTB for the past few months, and why are we talking about DUTB again today? I will begin with this, in my opinion, the Government has allowed unacceptable interference in individual cases that have actually been transferred to the DUDB, which was also confirmed at the joint meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Commission on Public Finance Control. At that time, Mr Nyberg, the former Chairman of the Management Board, said, and, last but not least, confirmed the Secretary of State sitting here with us today, Mr Dragonja, that the Ministry of Finance wanted to visit individual cases or in one case, which should never have happened before in the past, so said Mr Nyberg himself. Of course, the government responded that this was not a political intervention, when two foreign experts were dismissed, but that legal and transparent work was ensured. Mr Nyberg was supposed to be relieved of the loss of confidence, at least that is what Mr Marble said in one of the first statements he made to the public, namely that it is not a question of the level of remuneration or the quality of the function of the DUTB, but of the question of trust. On 19 October, the President of the Government answered the oral question, when he said in his reply that Mr Nyberg had been resolved because he had violated the duty of a member of the DutB Management Board. I repeat, he violated the duty of a member of the board of directors! This board of directors has several members, but he was indeed the president, but one of the members. The other three, the well-respected coalition, were appointed by you in the spring. Why did you name them? In order to improve the control and transparency of the DUTB operation in order to eliminate any anomalies that have occurred on the DUTB. We know we got the Court of Auditors' report in the spring, so you named them. But the other three, who were accidentally named by your side, still deserve the trust of this government. Not only that, one of them then became president of this board of directors. And who is this man? This is the man who supervised our bank with the largest state ownership, the New Ljubljana Bank, from 2009 to 2012; when there were a lot of bad credits given. So then he was there to oversee this bank that produced a large number of bad loans that we had to set up a bad bank, and now we have him back at a bad bank. How can people, citizens, and citizens understand that at all! And how can they believe that this was a loss of trust? I'm sorry, I can't believe it here. It is more than obvious that this was not a loss of confidence, but a loss of the possibility of political influence, as you yourself have pointed out, this was on the committee – you tried to influence a particular case that occurred on the DUB. These foreign experts were set up precisely to avoid being entangled in this network that operates in the background. That's exactly why! These high wages, which are very popular for people – the catastrophe that they have earned, but abroad experts have a certain amount of wages – these high incomes were a very good excuse, I'll say, some kind of media spin that you produced that you did. But I'm really wondering if these new ones are going to be so much cheaper and as successful as you are, as you are now speaking here. And that's the standard. We always watch, I don't know, price and quality about anything; you too, when you buy something, look at the price and the quality and then decide, and I wonder what will eventually come out of it, what will be the price and what will be the quality of it. And that's what should be important. Last but not least, the government has repeatedly said that DUTB is doing well. Personally, I do not know the work on the DUTB, and I do not know if any irregularities have been committed there, see, it is tax money, it is EUR 5 billion that have been transferred, and of course this has to be properly sanctioned, absolutely – if there has been – but there has never been a speech about it. Never. The issue of confidentiality, trust, high remuneration and the like was raised. However, I must also say that you have not taken similar positions in the case of NLB when, in fact, certain advisers receive 200 euros per hour or two hours, you have earned a minimum wage. There are people on this team who actually have no experience in investigating such acts, and I really believe that taxpayers are also interested in what these people are doing. Finally, NLB is owned by the majority state. Still. What are they doing to you there that the police couldn't actually do? But, of course, this obviously doesn't matter to you, and I can only ask myself, what isn't NLB going on and what credit maps are on this NLB and whose NLB. It's more than obvious that it's extremely important here, I'll say, true color or political affiliation. I believe that many of you who are sitting here have gone with good intentions to politics, because he actually wanted change, I believe. Unfortunately, things in the background, as you have probably already learned, work quite differently, but unfortunately they do. I personally estimate that in the future the DUTB will act much more independently and much more imprudent than it was until we had foreigners in it, which you of course have eliminated. It is more obvious, because it is also evident from the other personnel that you do not intend to withdraw the policy from the economy, that you do not intend to pursue this goal of having as few state-owned enterprises as possible. If you follow the objective of restructuring and corporate deleveraging, I will only see this and, of course, this successful and effective management. And if these directors are actually going to be more successful and cheaper, I really want to know what the final profit is going to be. Do you know where this is actually going to be the most familiar place? After where you'll actually be looking for the buyers for the claims and assets that are at DUTB right now. I am concerned that this property will be purchased by friends of friends who have spent this property in the past, which actually led us to a bank hole and later to make a bad bank, and now the same or certain people will buy it in the middle of the claim. And what we're going to have – we're going to turn around again and we're going to have to rehabilitate our banking system, which is what we need. As long as we hold on to this in Slovenia, I believe that nothing will happen in this country, and it is certainly clear more than that, Slovenia will not experience a development breakthrough until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Urška Ban. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Today's debate began with the conclusion that the reason for the operation of the bad bank is also the great insolvency of our banks and then continued the debate that we could monitor. But, but... I think it is important to note, precisely because the Minister has presented this fact so simplisticly, that this debt of Slovenia has been imposed. This was not a debt that was real, but it was literally imposed and so instead of EUR 0.9 billion, such as the original scenario, we recapitalised banks with 4.8 billion through completely non-transparent procedures. In the meantime, the measures included the establishment of a bad bank, but in fact, if I quote Mr Ivan Ribnikar, who said those words in an interview in 2012, the banks were solvent at the time. It is true that certain recapitalisation money was needed, but the biggest problem was, in fact, in companies which were in charge of rapid borrowing in the period 2004-2008, when it was possible to obtain very cheap loans abroad. This fact, which then confronts us, with the establishment of a bad bank, is repeatedly confirmed that it is the most expensive possible resolution of banks; of course, at the expense of the people who assume this obligation in a way that also reduces their social situation, so that we can "reduce this debt". For even by reducing or squeezing people, debt does not go down because economic growth is falling. The fact is that the moment when we are discussing this Commission's report on public finances supervision is crucial is at the moment of the transfer of claims from banks to bad banks. Here, too, we can see that when the claims were transferred – that is, 577 companies were transferred from banks to bad banks and less than half of these 577 were those that could have been characterised by bad claims. It wasn't about the rest of us. Well, in one year of operation of the Bank Claims Management Company, from less than half of these companies came a percentage of the bad companies to 67%. Therefore, in this interim period, many companies have agreed to bankruptcy on a proposal from the DUTB. Of course, DUTB is, under the basic law as it was adopted, designed to try to recover these bad claims as soon as possible and he has no interest in what happens to this company, what happens to jobs and what industrial or otherwise policy we have in Slovenia. Of course, these free-hands have probably also led to the fact that when we talk today in this report on these companies – about Sava, T-2 and Autotechna – we can find that these companies had a restructuring programme that they could implement, but the Bank Claims Management Company cut it down and forced some to make a settlement, others to bankruptcy, etc. In short, these are the consequences of this uncontrolled event, which companies – first of all, identifying bad claims in banks, which has actually been very untransparent and still today is the product of business secrecy, banking secrecy, and we are also trying through the commission set up by the National Assembly, to reach the bottom of this problem. However, the fact is that this process has clearly been carried out with the sole purpose of selling the company as soon as possible to some new owners at a lower price, and we generally note that these new owners are not actually owners who are dealing with a concrete programme, but are speculative capital that buys the company and then probably sells it in a short time. In short, the entire income chain and these earnings are the ones that burden all of us. That is why this process is also so expensive and is one of the most expensive that could be introduced in Slovenia. That is why I think we should really discuss why Slovenia was forced to do so and whether this debt is even legal. Is it not, however, an illegal debt that was presented in Slovenia? These are the questions that we should actually open up in the National Assembly and also come up with answers to what is happening and why what is happening to Sava is happening in this report, as well as with other companies. Today, in fact, we want to skip that initial part and deal with some facts and intertwine and argue about what is right and what is wrong. This is, after all, a moral gamble, which was certainly also predictable, since the Company for the Management of Bank Claims has actually taken over the management of privately owned companies. Of course, this moral gambling is so much bigger here, and all of this is also what we are encountering in Slovenia right now. If I touch further on the decision proposed by the Commission for adoption at today's meeting of the National Assembly, it would be good to have an answer, however, whether it is not enough for the Commission itself to propose that the Court of Auditors review these cases of the operations of the DUTB relating to the Sava, T-2 and Autotechno, since the Court of Auditors itself is listed in Article 25 itself to take into account at least five proposals; therefore at least five proposals from the National Assembly should be taken into account, including at least two proposals from the opposition Members and at least two proposals from the working bodies of the National Assembly. Here it would also be good to have an answer, if possible, by the applicants, whether this condition has already been met, that when the Commission has accepted it, it has already given the Court of Auditors the task of looking at it, and that the decision they are supposed to take today is unnecessary or doubling. This is also one of the issues that I think we should clear up before the vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will also have some thoughts on this recommendation, which we consider today as a agenda item at the regular meeting of the National Assembly, although a broad debate on this subject, as has been said several times today, has been widely addressed both by the Committee on Finance and the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. In addition to Members and Members of Parliament, all three companies addressed today also participated in this recommendation, the Court of Auditors, the Bank of Slovenia, the bankruptcy manager, small shareholders, DUTB, SDH and probably some others. Let me express my feelings in just one sentence at this debate. More than once, I have not been clear about the role I play in this committee and commission meeting, or in the role of the judicial branch of power, legislative, executive – but let us leave it now. Today, we have this recommendation on the table, which led to the debate at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. This recommendation, this decision, which is to be voted on today, is, in my opinion, a mere introduction, and then I will explain it, totally irrelevant, since the Court of Auditors has all the legal basis and even the obligation to exercise control over the legality, purpose, economy and efficiency of the use of the DUTB funds. However, this accepted recommendation by the Commission for the supervision of public finances has, of course, enabled us to repeat today all this debate, which has already been held there with competent guests who have also had the opportunity to participate in the debate here at the DZ meeting. Let me first say that my role, the role I am currently playing, as a Member of the National Assembly, does not affect the functioning of both the Court of Auditors and the DUTB or any other company, travel them to certain decisions or even decide on certain matters that do not fall within the competence of the National Assembly. Therefore, I will not comment on the specific cases that are also mentioned in the material, nor do I wish to comment, because I do not know them either, hand to heart, I do not know the procedures for the operation of the DUTB. The proceedings are ongoing, some in court, and I really don't feel competent to comment on them here. However, it is for all the decisions made by the DUTB, of course responsible management, and I certainly agree that if any irregularities have been made in any direction, we have institutions in this country that will identify and take appropriate action, but it is certainly not a place for this to be judged by the National Assembly. Our task in this story is in particular that the National Assembly amends the relevant legislation as soon as possible, the legal basis for the DUTB to achieve the objective primarily in the direction of successful completion of bank recovery. The main problem hindering this is the large proportion of the NPL in Slovenian banks and the amendment of the law, which is already in the parliamentary procedure, will clearly identify the tools that DUTB will be available to increase efficiency in restructuring. It is said that DUTB is given several instruments to enable these companies to actively manage to increase their value and maintain jobs. Another important issue with regard to this novel is the increased transparency of the functioning of the DUTB, which this novel also includes, as well as other amendments introduced by the Minister today. This is our task, and we will probably consider this at the next meeting of the National Assembly. In particular, as regards the recommendation stating that the National Assembly proposes to the Court of Auditors to review the legality and cost-effectiveness of the decision-making procedure in three specific companies. Here, I would like to say, however, that the Court of Auditors cannot be classified in any of the three branches of government: not in the legislative, not in the executive and not in the judiciary. The status of independence and independence is guaranteed by law and by the Constitution. From the point of view of today's debate, it is particularly important that the Court of Auditors exercise its powers on its own. It only accepts the work programme and no body, institution or other facilities can impose work on it or give it instructions for its implementation, nor any audit to be carried out, nor any specific audit to be carried out. It is true that, in accordance with the Court of Auditors Act, members and working bodies of the National Assembly, the Government, local communities, may propose to carry out an audit. Among these proposals, the Court of Auditors shall then elect at least five proposals from the National Assembly for its annual programme of work, of which at least two proposals from the opposition or opposition Members and at least two proposals from the working bodies of the National Assembly. We have already done all of this, of course, given these supervisory initiatives to be carried out by the Court of Auditors. At the same time, the Court of Auditors may, at its own discretion, also take into account individual initiatives. These include civil society entities, media contributions, articles, etc. However, it is necessary to distinguish between audit powers and audit obligations. The Court of Auditors Act itself provides for cases to be reviewed by the Court of Auditors every year. I am, for example, a review of the correctness of the implementation of the State budget and a number of others, of course. Such an obligation may also be imposed on him by other laws or regulations; for example, the Political Parties Act, the Electoral Law and the Referendum Law and so on. From this point of view, it is essential to understand the provisions of Article 19 of the Act on measures for the stability of banks, which provides that control of the legality, purpose, economic and efficient use of the assets of the DUTB shall be exercised by the Court of Auditors every year. In view of the above, it is absolutely unnecessary and, in my view, also in breach of the basic principles of the Court of Auditors' operation, the proposed recommendation or decision to invite the Court of Auditors to review the legality and cost-effectiveness of the DUTB decision procedure in only three specific cases, which are also mentioned in the recommendation: T-2, Sava and Autotechna. In my view, the proposed decision is disputed both from the point of view of the determination of the audit, as this, as I have already said, is mandatory under the law of the ZUKSB and also from the point of view of the proposed scope, since the legal obligation is tightening. Indeed, according to the ZUKSB, in addition to legality and economy, the Court of Auditors is also obliged to monitor the purpose and efficiency of the use of funds. In addition, he proposes only three specific cases of decision-making, as I said before, Sava, T-2 and Autotechna. The Court of Auditors shall determine the subject-matter of the audit in accordance with its rules, in accordance with audit standards, any deviation from that would, in my opinion, intervene in the work of the Court of Auditors and, as I said at the outset, the Court of Auditors shall, after its conclusion, be an independent body and shall be obliged to carry out an audit each year and, on the basis of its expert assessment, shall also make recommendations to remedy the irregularity or any conclusion of that audit. Then the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which has the competence to review, discuss and request additional answers, is back in the National Assembly. The role of the Commission for the supervision of public finances is to monitor, monitor, monitor the implementation of the legal provisions adopted and, if necessary, adopt certain decisions or responsible action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Get Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u32	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The bank's claim management company is 100 % state-owned, so citizens must have the right to know whose interest it was to sell our companies instead of having professionals undertake serious restructuring and provide them with financial sustainability and long-term development. Before DUTB even started serious work, the country has already cost more than €2.6 million. In a year, he has concluded transactions worth almost EUR 2 million with external consulting companies. Exactly what these companies advised the bad banks is unknown. The DUTB did not wish to disclose, nor who its advisers were, the content of these contracts, the value of the contracts and the criteria that were taken into account in the selection of these advisers. Everything was secret, mysterious, inaccessible and imprecise. That is why we believe that the Government should replace the whole DUB board and the KPK should verify the conflict of interest between Janez Škrube and Imre Balogh. Instead, Minister Maramor scares us with the systematic disintegration and abolition of jobs in so-called bad companies. He claims that Scrooge and Baloh have no conflict of interest. Well, let's see how much this holds up. As we have already found at the meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, Janez Škrubej, before being employed at the DUTB, worked as a lobbyist and tried to assist Telekom Austria in taking over T-2, d.o.o., and now the Executive Director of the DUTB and the Management Board, and DUTB, for incomprehensible reasons, demanded the bankruptcy of T-2, d.o.o., although on the basis of publicly available data and the management of T-2, d.o.o., is a positive undertaking and even in the opinion of the former Chief Executive Director of Torbjörn Mönsson, a profitable company. However, the DUTB is the only acceptable solution to the company’s bankruptcy and its resale, and they do not provide the public with a satisfactory explanation of the reasons for this decision. Come in. If we touch Imre Balogh. On the DUTB page, we can see that Baloghova pays EUR 5 000 plus the reimbursement of transport costs, daily bills, etc., which arise in connection with the work of the DTB Management Board. In addition, Imre Baloh, president of Probank's Extraordinary Administration, receives more than EUR 12 000. So let's not just talk about money we don't envy. If none of this is disputed, it is at least disputed that Imre Baloh is a full-time worker. In short, he is like Probank and DUTB here in violation of the Labour Relations Act, which provides in Article 146 that a full-time worker may exceptionally conclude a contract of employment with a shorter working time with another employer, but not more than 8 hours per week. [[…]] Of course, it is necessary to clarify where Imre Baloh is actually employed and how busy he is and how much his salary is for the amount of work he can physically perform. If, in both cases, he is employed full-time, we can ask ourselves how full-time one person can be employed at all. Could anyone who is a friend of Minister Dusan Marble – and Imra Baloh – be – in addition to the existing regular full-time employment in full-time state-owned enterprises and how many full-time jobs can anyone possibly perform? Is it possible for us to work regularly, for example, for 32 hours a day? These are four full-time jobs; for example, that you are at the same time employed at Probank and DUTB and perhaps at SDH and KDD. Thus, although this situation was reportedly in force until 9 October, this situation is indicative of a certain model and we suggest that the KPK be defined. It is unusual for these two representatives to still enjoy the confidence of the government and the ministry of marble. We are therefore proposing, as we have said before, that the two candidates in dispute will be replaced and that the KPK will also be defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to explain immediately because it's a piece of information that can be misleading. In his opening statement, the Minister said that Mr Imre Balogh had been dismissed as Prime Minister of Probank on 9 October 2015. That is to say, these statements that he has been working since then in two functions and that he has two working relationships do not hold. He worked as a non-executive director of a bad bank until 9 October and was not in a working relationship. This is explicitly stated in the Bank's Stability Measures Act that non-executive directors have management contracts, run business as members of the Governing Board but have not been in a working relationship. If the entries on the Probank website are not updated, we will warn Probanka to update them, but the situation is as stated by the Minister in his opening act. In this part, the role of the non-executive director was not in the direct conflict of interest between Probanka and DUTB, given that Mr Baloh took into account the principles of avoiding conflicts of interest when they occur. These principles and principles are enshrined in the law and continue in the internal acts of the DUTB in all cases where or when conflicts of interest arise, such transactions must be excluded from the decision-making process, and this has been consistently carried out in accordance with the guarantees provided by the Ministry of Finance. Such transactions, too, where there was a great conflict of interest between Probank and the bad bank, were very few, but they existed and in these cases they were done in accordance with legal provisions. We have accurate and accurate information on this subject. If necessary, if the National Assembly makes a clear assessment and the Commission can also assess the situation and issue its opinion, whether all the standards in the field of avoidance or conflict of interest laid down in the law have been duly complied with.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. A very short intervention, in particular in this part, is only a recommendation when the National Assembly proposes to the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit on legality and economy. First of all, he's proposing. We're just proposing to the Court of Auditors. Is there anything wrong with that that we should refuse? What are we afraid of? I hope not. It is only the mission or duty of a member of the National Assembly to draw attention to any irregularities that arise. Then why do we have the Court of Auditors? Moreover, the Court of Auditors may accept and is not obliged to explain from whom it has received proposals for the audit of anyone in the Republic of Slovenia, citizens and citizens, including on the basis of anonymous proposals. Of course he does, then he decides. Although we really do not want anything wrong here, at the same time, respected colleagues in the coalition, it is clear that your opinion on this proposal has been taken or recommended by the Commission so far completely turned to quote. At this meeting of the Commission we discussed two conclusions: the decision of New Slovenia and the decision of the parties to the coalition. Mr Weber rightly points out that at the Commission's meeting, we had the opportunity to vote on the same decision as we have today on the table, with one exception that your decision, which will be a copy of the pasta of our decision, did not provide that the National Assembly would decide on this recommendation for the Court of Auditors to adopt the audit, but that the Commission, without discussion in the National Assembly, would propose this to the Court of Auditors. For this reason, I ask you not to deceive one thing, because your proposal was even worse. Even if the National Assembly doesn't discuss it! So, copies of the traps were both conclusions, with only one change: we proposed to discuss it with the National Assembly. So, you can fuck yourself with the ashes, because if you were to do so, today this decision would have been adopted, the Court of Auditors would have taken this decision, this recommendation already dealt with and had it. Above all, I say that we will be more likely to argue further, or that it will be easier for you to decide in the vote itself, that we have been fully coordinated here until recently. If you want, you can also make this decision, which you have proposed to the coalition members, because it is recorded in the magnetogram, we can divide. Mr. Prickl, if I may quote, said, "This is a copy of the pasta proposal." It was indeed a copy of the pasta proposal in one single difference, which is that our difference is that today we are dealing with this National Assembly, but your difference is that the National Assembly would not consider this recommendation at Parliament's meeting. But nothing about – let's leave this aside, let's not be the point of today's debate. However, I still say, I insist that it is right for the Court of Auditors to recommend this proposal, to carry out an audit, to accept this and that the Court of Auditors actually, where there are suspicions, carry out certain procedures, and I wish to see the suspicions dispersed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The company for the management of bank claims or so-called bad bank was established in 2013 as a state-owned company. The establishment of a bad bank was one of the concepts for bank resolution that got in trouble. The claims of companies that have been transferred to a bad bank are to be sold off by DUTB at the best possible price. However, the fact is that it is possible to track the cases where DUTB has proposed or announced one of the existing insolvency proceedings against certain undertakings to which it has claims, but which, given the management, owners or financial statements of these companies, are operating positively and even creating profits. Such companies are, for example, we have already heard today, and I will say again, Sava Turizem d.d. – the threat of the alleged bankruptcy, which society believes is the worst possible solution for society. This would also reduce the value of the Sava Turizem Hotel, d. d. The operation of Sava Turism is successful and therefore the reasons for the alleged bankruptcy and, of course, the consequences for the future of society are expected from DUMB. The second such company is T-2. DUTB, despite a duly substantiated enforcement settlement, claimed bankruptcy of T-2, although it is operating positively according to the data. On a proposal from the owners of T-2, the Constitutional Court suspended the bankruptcy procedure, which was then reopened in August by the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. The third such company is Autotechna. The professional public was amazed at the introduction of the enforcement procedure over this company. The management of the company is expected to submit to the DUTB in due time a framework proposal for measures of interbank agreement outside insolvency proceedings and claim that the company is not insolvent. There is a feeling that DUTB wants to put himself in a position of authority with respect to other creditors and make a priority payment. I will therefore support the proposal. The Court of Auditors should certainly examine the legality and cost-effectiveness of the business and decision-making procedures of DUTB in the cases of Sava, T-2 and Autotechna. With regard to the conduct of the supervisory board of Executive Directors regarding the determination of our situation, I will say that, with respect to the unscrupulously high salaries for executive directors and members of the Supervisory Board, many will say that the management of the bad bank is very responsible and difficult work I will not challenge – and the following, that we are looking for experts from outside our country for these tasks and that such experts from abroad accept such responsible work only if appropriate payment is offered for this job. So payment, appropriate in Europe, not in our country. I don't fully accept this argument! That is why the weak bank has lost confidence among the citizens and my opinion is that, I repeat, such high wages that have been approved by the Executive Directors of the Supervisory Board of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims are a very bad act and the Assembly of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims – we know who the Assembly is – should have prevented it from doing so long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here I would like to provide an explanation in order to fully understand the basic principles of the functioning of a bad bank or the basic principles of how insolvency proceedings are conducted, because in the vast majority of companies under the auspices of a bad bank, these are insolvent companies. This is said to be the case for companies with more debts than they have and procedures must be carried out in an objective manner to protect creditors and to ensure that creditors are fairly paid or that individual creditors are not harmed in individual cases. Both in the case of Autotechne and in the case of Sava, the basic principle of insolvency law was violated. And it is that before the creditors are cut off before the creditors give up the part of their claims that ownership rights must first be forfeited to shareholders. This has not been done either in one case or in another, both plans submitted, financial reorganisations, compulsory settlement or preventive restructuring at Sava have been designed by creditors to write off part of their claims, including a bad bank, in order to keep shareholders part of their ownership entitlements. In this part, such plans are in fundamental disharmony and do not follow the basic principle of insolvency law, namely the CAPIPPP. In this part, a bad bank could not really confirm such plans. This is a principle that we often need to stress in the Government's restructuring group, which coordinates various state institutions, bodies, including a bad bank, state funds in these procedures. In these cases, the owners have led the company to a situation where the debts exceed the assets and in these cases creditors are protected. Thus, it is not that a bad bank has exploited its parental position against its owners. This is by law whether she had a superior position or used it against other creditors and should be assessed in the light of how individual creditors are insured. In banking, certain principles apply and banks are ultimately paid in these proceedings depending on the quality of their insurers. Therefore, we have separated creditors, ordinary creditors insured with such or other insurance. In this case, even if the transferred claims were superior to the quality of insurance to ordinary claims, the basic logic of insolvency law again implies that creditors with better insurance, separated creditors, the advantage of payment either in compulsory settlement or bankruptcy. When we talk about T-2, which has been repeatedly mentioned that the company operates with positive results, with a positive EBITDO to improve its business, at a meeting of the Committee, a joint meeting of the two Committees, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee and the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, there was a bankruptcy manager of this company and she made it clear that the company is liquid in this situation, performing its basic functions, but could not confirm whether the company would be able to repay its debts in the event of default. In this particular case, we have a situation where it is a company that is the largest individual debtor of a bad bank, with one claim or an exposure of EUR 130 million. This is the largest single case of the debtor. We know that T-2 was created in certain environmental projects carried out by Zvon One and Zvon Two holding companies and how these bad loans were created, but in the further restructuring and enforcement of this company, there was a situation where banks were passive, did not vote as separated creditors, and that ordinary creditors negotiated conditions to start or pay off the whole debt in a single amount only – I think after 8, 9 years – in 2022. Thus, it must be noted that in this case T-2 does not pay as a company, does not repay anything to a bad bank, does not repay anything to taxpayers, does not pay only the interest rate but does not repay the basic debt. While the company is accumulating from the current operation of a certain financial surplus, it should therefore be pointed out that the active operation of the DUTB to recover the debtors in this part cannot be considered illegal if the bankruptcy procedure has been initiated. We also stressed this on the Commission, if the bad bank and the debtor failed to agree on a number of attempts, the bad bank used more stringent conditions to recover this debt or more acute measures. However, an active appearance before the courts does not mean illegal action. The DUTB shall have active legitimacy and shall carry out it substantially more actively than previously carried out by the banks which gave these loans, and that is part of their mission. There is a high risk in T-2 that EUR 130 million will be paid in full within the time limit when this debt will fall. In this part, we cannot therefore condemn a bad bank to exploit its position as a creditor. It does what creditors who actively play their role do in these situations. So I think we have given all these explanations to the Commission, and we know that there are conflicting interests here between the companies that are creditors, between their owners, and between the companies that are debtors, among their owners, shareholders and between the financial and other creditors that are engaged in these processes. I would therefore ask that when you decide on how you assess these situations – although the Minister has avoided commenting on specific situations and we are also avoiding them, but in order to understand these situations, it is still necessary to make clear that the label of illegal activity in this part is virtually out of place if the bad bank is exercising its entitlements arising from the credit agreements it has acquired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. First of all, I must respond to the execution of my fellow Vrtovec, who is today a bit wicked. He mentioned a meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, where we talked and the coalition came up with a decision that was quite similar to what they had given. The reason for this was, in addition to taking a break before this, in particular, that we wanted to assess how things were standing and what we wanted to achieve and constructively approach what the opposition wanted to achieve and, on the other hand, what we thought was right at a particular moment. What the opposition wanted was for them to make a proposal to the Court of Auditors or a recommendation that they would make. Our position is as it is today, it is said that this is already required by law, that it is not necessary. But knowing that the majority of the opposition in the Commission for the supervision of public finances has a majority of the opposition, which is also true, because it must be the one who is the supervisor, somehow in other shoes as a position, because control can be as effective as possible, and then we have approached it in this way, saying: OK, let's make a proposal that is very comparable to what they have given, but with one minor difference, that is not being discussed in the National Assembly. Why — since we have assessed at that time that the Court of Auditors should, if it is already called upon to do so, start work as soon as possible, and submit additional documents as soon as possible so that we do not talk on the basis of certain articles and similar. Because what is a fact – when we spoke on the committee, the presence, unlike the meeting of the National Assembly, was slightly different. Thus, there are also guests who can also tell their own, and we get additional information directly. Many were invited, both SDH and DUTB representatives, the Court of Auditors and many others. That is to say, those who, at that particular moment, can add some content to the debate. I think that from the point of view of public information, the goal has been achieved, because this has been documented in any way, as my colleague Vratvec said, there is a magnetogram where it can be verified. That's how I think that's enough from this point of view. From the point of view of operationality, as I said, and then it will be clear, it seemed to us that it might be more reasonable for us to be doing this as soon as possible, not now at the meeting of the National Assembly, perhaps later when we have not only some newspaper articles, but also, in fact, a report from the Court of Auditors, which will give us some substance that we can talk about. Because it's really hard to make decisions based on some of these data. Thus, in view of today's meeting, as regards added value, it is difficult to assess whether we are going through what we have already discussed at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. On the other hand, there are some interlocutors who were able to add some content to what we talked about at the time. Let me go on with what somehow bothers me and comes from what I have just said – phrases in the sense, "everything in the background is saying that an angry fight is going on", "T-2 has not given some sufficient explanation as to its decisions", "the wonder of the professional public". Further, "unnamed source", "unnamed experts" Finally, you come to the conclusion that they may be some kind of imaginary people. [[…]] I know it's a strong point in the Digital Agenda, but we're not talking about virtual people, we're talking about money in the back, and it's real money. I prefer to talk about this because I also prefer to see what is on the table from the Court of Auditors and the like who are responsible for this, so that we can talk about it more competently. When it was said, when is that limit, when some explanations are satisfactory? From my point of view, at that point, it was said that it was exactly the same controversy as what it meant to trigger bankruptcy. In Slovenia, according to the current tradition, when there was no more ash, the ashes were actually licked. As a result, there is some perception of what bankruptcy means for a society, perhaps a bit awkward in the Slovenian concept of the word. As I know, then, for example, it has been specifically said that bankruptcy occurs, then what is operational and works well, what they said at the time was somehow profitable, that it is a positive business, that it is sold as a "going concert", that is, in this sense as a company or as a business, because there is not just any company like a shell, there is also some business that you sell, you cash in this way also your claims and then you get some money for that country; it is said that what was established for the purposes of which the DUTB was also established: the transfer of bad claims on them, the active management, the restructuring of the economy and then the proceeds of the budget, that at least part of the money that was spent for the recapitalisation also returns. Then some debates were interesting here. One thing is for me that derivatives are criminal. This is an interesting word relationship, as far as our former colleague is concerned. There are at least three aspects to be taken into account. For the first time, derivative financial instruments in start-up or origin shall not in principle be criminal. It's about protecting yourself or protecting yourself against certain risks, I don't know, selling abroad, trying to protect yourself against currency risks, or protecting some other positions, which is totally business-related. Then we have other aspects, which we are talking about, that are speculative or investment aspects, where there was also a tax on a financial transaction at European Union level in some way, and we have come to the point that we obviously do not need it, and that would in some way limit it mainly to trading at a high frequency, it is said that you have some computer servers there that do trade, and then because of the strong levers of the money you charge them, they can take the market to one side or the other to the detriment of those who do not intend to speculate. And the other aspect, which is, is one of three, and that's the criminal aspect. I think it's a relatively big exaggeration if you say that financial instruments are executed in Slovenia because of the financial crisis. Why? Because we were able, when I look at our banks, to invest in completely simple financial instruments that were not implemented: on loans, on the collaterals that were provided for these loans, and on the risks that we are taking. We are not talking about derivatives. We're talking about someone not being able to carry out their activities, so giving, which is basically the bank's, giving out loans. So that we don't go too far into some complex sphere because there's no need. We in Slovenia are very much at the base level and in those specific cases we obviously did not know how to go. One of the interesting things is that when we talk about one, it's called a forensic examination to say why you need an outside. As I do have experience, when I have sometimes partly dealt with it, external advisers are usually hired in such situations, especially because they are considered somehow independent and because they are a temporary activity that will take only a little time to discover what needs to be discovered and surrender to the prosecution what needs to be handed over. As regards internal audit, external audit activities, then supervision of compliance or compliance with legislation, and so on, these are those internal departments or external audits that are external, but the remaining internal departments, which are permanent departments and have them. Then forward with these imaginary experts and this – I also need to define myself, because this also raises me up a little bit – suddenly we have a situation where the leadership, past leaders and past owners, when they put this information through the media, somehow believes as some reference points, more than what we actually are – if we look at DUTB, it was deliberately created, it was dedicated to the personnel who specialize in this activity and are actually paid to do so. [[…]] According to this logic, if Franz knew what he was doing for 30 years, and then failed the company that he was still trustworthy, I'm still a little skeptical about it. Because you know that, there are interesting and insightful people out there on the Coast. One of these, for example, is also Mlakar, who said you had to be really badly studied and really great talent to get such a company into failance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Bad Bank has already been a political project for both the European Union and Slovenia. Whether it is successful or not, of course, we have different opinions today, as in its creation. In view of the fact that we have burdened banks with a large share of our obligations to foreign banks, this is where the purpose was achieved. However, if we look at how many of these bad claims there are, it is likely that this value is not significantly lower from the establishment of a bad bank to today. In this case, this success is likely to be relatively lower. Whatever the case, it was then decided to establish it in a different environment and time, and probably there is no point in discussing it. The reasons for the creation, said already a great deal or I think that everything was said, was certainly the primary reason for decommissioning the banking system of bad claims and thus allowing banks to lend the economy. The fact that the credit crunch is largely non-performing is not the answer. Unfortunately. On the other hand, the purpose of transferring these bad claims to this bad bank was to restructure these companies, to regain something of their value and, as such, to be more valuable, better managed, then sold forward and thus to obtain some of their money back. Here, too, I think that expectations have not been fully met. At the time when this was discussed, many words were said at the expense of stress tests, which were the starting point for quite a number of companies to come to this bad bank. I do not think that what has occurred in relation to salaries and stimulating the leaders in the bad bank, of course, makes so much sense in what value they have been able to sell at this point in time. In fact, I think that given that these companies were heavily evaluated at the time of the transfer, of course it is not difficult to achieve success for something that was worth a hundred, you pass for 30, you sell for 35; it is said that this can immediately be the great success of a bad bank, in fact the difference that was paid by taxpayers through the recapitalisation of banks. And, of course, this cannot be a criterion for stimulating these leading people. I think that confidence in a bad bank is also a result of their different practices and the decisions not only of those wages that first came into play. That this practice is really controversial is already the fact that we do not know and know anything today about the criteria on which these claims were transferred to a bad bank. No one knows the methodology, no one knows the way, even the view is that many of these transferred claims have been transferred in an unnecessary, inappropriate manner. However we turn, it is said that there is doubt that there are no clear answers. In this regard, we are quick to ask how this bad bank is dealing with this claim. In fact, I would expect more effort and energy to be invested in restructuring these companies, re-energizing their value and only after the sale and return of this money to the system itself. But the fact is, it doesn't come that way. The case of Save is, for example, probably a drop over the edge in some way. In fact, the sale of one important share, I can say, of Slovenian tourism and also of the economy – one really finds it difficult to understand that it would have been carried out in this way. In fact, the bad bank proved to be an extremely important privatisation factor in Slovenia. From here, given that it has three billion and a half bad claims, of course, it cannot be surprising that we expect proper control over the management of these bad claims. I don't see much better control than the Court of Auditors. If anyone can say that this is independent professional supervision, I think that there is no dilemma here, and above all we cannot say that this is political control. Therefore, personally, I do not have any doubts and, of course, I will also support the proposal for a decision proposed by the Court of Auditors to actually control the work of a bad bank – which I think was, I think, a legitimate, stupefying trust in its actions – is being implemented and cannot represent a country in a country that can do what it wants, after all, with our money. That is why I say: support for the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Today, when I listen to these discussions about the management of the bank claim company, it seems to me that the biggest sin in this country is if someone has a high salary, but it is not a sin of laziness, incompetence, fraud. This is not a sin in Slovenia, but high wages, I will say, just left political options always come in handy when some experts, or prominent citizens, or foreign experts are to be discredited. However, I must say what has been said since the start of the race against Mr Münsson and Nyberg due to high wages, I think that even the gross salary of EUR 4 000 at the time was a candidate for the President of the Republic of the State, Mr Franz Arhar, so into heaven a sin that it was simply unacceptable for such a person to become President of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, because it was probably from the wrong political option, and it did not smell to many people that things in Slovenia would finally begin to take place in the right direction, not least in the right direction in which these foreign experts at DUB pointed. And I already told you yesterday how different we can interpret high wages. Someone's got a high salary, and someone's got a little lower salary, and a very large representation besides, up to half a million, and that's not important. The main thing is that he has a low salary, even if some awards are ever awarded somewhere. Not to say that there is then room for distribution through public procurement and the EU of funds. But I have to say, there is a lot of profits there, but they're not shown as wages, and anyone can have a low salary if they have some background and the possibility of a source of funding. In short, it seems to me that experts coming from Europe, if we want them to work really well for Slovenian state property, must have European comparable salaries. I don't imagine any expert coming to Slovenia just because Slovenia is a beautiful, warm country where we have sea, mountains and forests. These experts may have to choose anywhere, even pay must be the one to attract work and must be comparable to a salary in neighbouring countries. The fact is – which worker is the most expensive? You'll probably all know. The most expensive worker is one who does nothing or does no harm. To do this, we must give him a salary, a place and two to three more people to work so that they can control him. That worker is the most expensive, not some expert. Therefore, I think it is necessary to lay down in advance the criteria for how these people's salaries or incomes, which will be reintroduced through, I hope, the international call for Slovenia, will start to manage seriously and responsibly. Since, last of all, I think they are seriously and responsiblely co-managing, only we as Slovenians, as a country always have some concerns, but what if it is. So probably because a certain part of Slovenian, I'll say, the lobby wasn't there. But predetermined criteria. In the economy, one part of the salary is fixed and one part is variable. Of course, this variable share is also a matter of agreement, whether it is 60% or 70%, which is all part of the policy or part of the negotiations and employment arrangements. As there is some doubt as to the correctness or irregularity, I think that in cases T-2, Save, Autotechne makes sense to carry out an audit by the Court of Auditors and to clarify whether the Banks Claims Management Company has acted legally in all these three cases, as well as whether its decisions have been cost-effective and effective. I think it is responsible in view of the whole situation, whatever has started to happen in this country, this is the most important action in this direction, to review it and to dispel all doubts or to confirm that something was wrong with it. As long as we don't have it, it seems to me it's disrespectful to speak only for their wages and I don't know what and illegality. These are all the guesses that the media pick up, blow up, and not least then the person stays dirty and can't even wash his name. I suggest you support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar, get Jan Škoberne ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you, Chairman. I think we should be grateful in this room that we have the opposition and that we have the Commission to oversee public finances, because otherwise I doubt that we would be discussing this topic today in the National Assembly. Although it is a subject that in some way pursues and concerns each one of us. We're all taxpayers. Since this is such an important subject, I wonder where the minister is. He was here, and then he left about an hour ago. Look, today we're talking in some way about the humane tsunami of epic dimensions. Mr. Prikl just looked up. I'll explain why. Look, this government has headed the DUTB, to which five billion euros have been transferred. Last night, however, the SDH Supervisory Council headed SDH, with 13 billion assets. And this government, which has spoken moral and ethical standards, has, in one year, gone to the entire economic segment owned by the country to 18 billion euros. Two annual budgets. Two annual budgets, and there's no minister here. What is more important than, in some ways, all that is left of economic cream or silver or gold in the hands of the State? And interestingly, no. The story goes back a little over half a year ago when the Court of Auditors issued that first decision and partial opinion on the basis of which that first wave of staff replacements came. And now it's due to the alleged wages of this other, even more extensive human tsunami. Last week, when the President of the Court of Auditors, who in some way launched this stratosphere or this force, said that he could express satisfaction in cleaning. You can imagine, the President of the Court of Auditors, in the course of the government's actions, expressed his satisfaction with this action in the context of human resources clearance. So far, I have avoided evaluating the work of the Court of Auditors, but I do not think that the President of the Court of Auditors should react in such important cases. The topic on the agenda today has asked the National Assembly of the Court of Auditors to exercise control over three specific matters. In the same interview, the President of the Court of Auditors has already announced this. He said that they would carry out the audit for 2014 and also for 2015 at the DUTB and that they would also specifically review these transactions. But interestingly, the President of the Court of Auditors has not yet announced an audit of the UKC, where substantially larger millions are leaving every day and there is not yet an audit. With this concentration of efforts at the DUTB, I would like to know where the efforts to control the New Ljubljana Bank are. Who's in control of the New Ljubljana Bank? Who revises the New Ljubljana Bank? The government doesn't, because the board is doing this to the board of directors. SDH, because it is now in majority or full state ownership, but with yesterday's appointment you made a comedy of confusion – about which I will later – and the NLB cannot control or revise the investigation commission, which examines the reasons for the bank hole, because simply a judge at the District Court in Ljubljana – Desha Cener, does not allow the seizure of documentation. So who's in control of NLB? And no one gets upset. I've never heard the Minister feel bad about it, the Secretary of State. About DUTB, that's another story. I'm worried about DUTB two things. With headquartering, i.e. the expulsion of foreigners from the DUTB in some way and the arrival of our "our" boys – remember, Mr Stojan Petrič said he was ready for the DUTB to come to the board of directors for free. Can you imagine someone being willing to come for free? I assure you that this is the most expensive executive director of a bad bank, dearest, because the results are not measured in 30,000 euros of wages, but in whether we will get a few hundred million dollars back or not. And those who are willing to work for free, be assured that they have other interests than that pay. In this interview, the President of the Court of Auditors said that we still have a part to deal with when it comes to key claims. This is very much in line with what Mr Dragonja pointed out at several meetings on the Committee on Finance, as well as what he said in Reflections when he said that the task of a bad bank is not only to pay taxpayers what the men in banks have spent, but also to manage state property in some way. Can you imagine? Although the 4th point of the DUTB mission states, "DUTB is a temporary owner and manages claims in a way that allows for the best possible outcome." Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, understands this differently – that from now on, when "our" boys are there, or when space is made for "our" boys, the DUTB also begins to manage state property. But here we are where the name Save appears. There's a story breaking on Savi. With these human resources sweeps, which we are witnessing under the rule of Mira Cerar, I can tell you that there is some sort of personnel incest. See, the common feature of all personnel is the New Ljubljana Bank. Mr Dragonja was the head of the subsidiary of the New Ljubljana Bank in Moscow between 2008 and 2013. Mr Simoneti, who now runs a bad bank, is headed by a board of directors, was Chairman of the Supervisory Board from 2009 to 2012. And the new SDH President, Mr Jazbec, was one of the Executive Directors of the New Ljubljana Bank during the same period as Mr Simoneti. Now he was the chairman of the credit committee. Look, now you have at the same time that the biggest bank holes were being created, it was the Chairman of the credit committee, that is, the one who has fueled the lending, Mr. Jazbec, and the one who oversees this lending, Mr. Simoneti. Can you imagine? At the time when these two vehicles were driving the Novo Ljubljanska Banka, for example, Nova Ljubljanska Banka was the leading bank in the Greek credit union for the construction of Stožice. The same two gentlemen are directly responsible for the huge NLB gap of EUR 50 million today. And these same gentlemen, after the decision of the Government of Mira Cerar, have only been re-examined. One went to 13 billion euros worth of SDH's assets, and the other to a 5 billion-dollar portfolio of bad banks, which in some ways will no longer pursue this mission, that is to say, to pay the taxpayers as much as possible, but apparently also manage the assets, to decide who the owner, who cannot be the owner, to decide what to move back to SDH with DUTB and, of course, to actively trade after our assets. Mr. Maramor, when he was here, justified this personnel fracturing after the Slovenian economy by saying that the situation in Slovenia is specific. He said that when he compared the Slovenian bad bank with the bad bank in Ireland and Spain, it was a different portfolio, so the investment structure is different. In fact, the portfolio in Ireland and Spain is supported by real estate, i.e. mortgages. Here's a non-performance loan tied to securities and very bad insurance. Do you remember what I said before? Who was the head of the credit board? Mr. Jazbec. Who was the chief supervisor? Mr. Simonetti. Who decided to secure these loans in the New Ljubljana Bank? Mr. Jazbec, but Mr. Simonetti was in control. And now the same two are in a bad bank and SDH. So how do the taxpayers understand that? How can the government of Mir Cerar, who has sworn to moral standards, justify this? Well, that's a hell of a fight with a healthy farmer! Excuse me. Look, you can't set up those who've cooked the hole, then set it up for rescue managers. You just can't, there's no country to do it. Only Slovenia does it. And then Mr Maramor said that the government must strike a balance between efficiency and transparency. How? However, if Mr Dragonja has announced that DUTB must now become a national asset manager. How? This is no longer an efficiency, it is now a higher economic interest. This is now an investment management strategy. This is what dictates that a company with 16 employees with 30 million euro of negative capital, which is exposed for 200 million, can dictate who will be at the head of the DUTB and who will not. Let me also say, Mr Narat was a member of the NLB administration until the day he was replaced by Mr Jazbec. Continuity secured. Continuity is also ensured in this case. Mr. Maramor was also responsible here for the pay phone, if there was no pressure on him. He said they were just asking him when Mansson's salary would be consistent with wage policy. Why would anyone ask Mr. Marble? Well, it's the board of directors who makes sure that the wages are aligned. What kind of logic is that? So Mr. Marble himself admitted that they were addressing him. The Governing Board appointed by this Government, Shirovnik, Imbra Baloh and Simoneti were unable to coordinate this or because under this Government it is obviously normal communication to put supervisors in the single system in some way, and then you still coordinate the function of the DUB with the ministerial chair. And since some foreigners did not understand Slovenian and perhaps could not read among the lines to leave Savo in peace, it happened as it was. Foreigners had to leave, and "our boys" stayed. I don't understand why they were referring to Mr. Marble. Since he's not here, I don't have to ask him, and he's obviously not going to serve me with an answer. Look, you're talking about some corporate governance, and then the minister himself admits to you that they're addressing it and that he's the one who solves the issues that others have to solve — the ones he's asked. And then at the end, when he said that we would have replaced those three that Marble had set up earlier, but we know what the relationship was, that it had not been possible to change that payment policy before. Under the line, these three set by Mr. Maramor were to harmonise payment policies, but the four were not – or how? Is that how I understand Mr. Marble? I mean, he can't explain it to me because he's not here. But if that's true, then why did you only solve two? I mean, four of them didn't pay attention. But why did you leave two Slovenians and leave two strangers? We can explain that to you, Mr. Dragonja? [[advertising from the hall]] He'll explain. Very nice. Look, just for closure. Earlier, colleague Bozič said very vividly that in Slovenia bankers were able to transport banks on simple financial instruments. So not on derivative financial instruments, yes, on simple financial instruments. But, Mr Christmas, you support those same banks that have invested in not even sophisticated banking instruments, but simple banking instruments. You support them when they take over 18 billion state assets. I agree with you that they did a lot of farming, I apologize, but I have to apologize to those who give us food, I don't have a good term, they worked very hard at home with bank money. I agree with you. But the difference between you and me is that I would no longer trust these people with state property. But you trust him again, and now I just don't know if it's intentional or it's because you're new to politics. But the fact is, what I've said is, all that's coming out of the footage that's dug our bank hole, we're not going to solve this financial crisis. And we will admit this as soon as possible, and we will give up these para-state ties, which in some way bind Slovenia so that it cannot get closer to the most developed, only Slovenia will be in some developmental backlog. That's why this last appointment, the appointment at the head of SDH, is to the end of breaking down the human resources policy and putting on a lie those promises that were made before the elections. The human resources policy and the integration of the state into the economy is a cancer of this community. I propose that the Government find out as soon as possible, unless it is itself an active participant in this. Then, look, there's no help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. Replica, Mr. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I've been looking for some reason to replicate, because you've been saying that for so long. As far as those who have caused it is concerned, I cannot comment precisely because I do not yet have all the information on those who have been re-appointed. But here's the thing. Balance sheet total banks: 2005 29 billion, 2006 33 billion, 2007 42 billion, 2008 47 billion, 2009 51 billion – you yourself mentioned this data, I did not verify that this position took place in 2009 – 2010 50 billion, 2011 48 billion, 2012 46 billion balance sheet total. I don't know what you're trying to say with this, but the fact is that the shape of these graphs and the mentioning of your tsunami somehow shows in another period, as far as growth is concerned. I was going to replicate that, and it's kind of hard to understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, Mr Dragonja Method, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Logar has drawn me to the language, as is said, of the discharge or of this personnel tsunami in a bad bank. Since it has been said several times in the discussion that discharges were not properly justified, I would like to provide an explanation in this regard. For the first time, the Minister made a public statement that the Chairman of the DUB Management Board no longer enjoys his trust. This conclusion was reached by the Minister on the basis of the facts which he found that not all the benefits, all contracts and all annexes to the contracts concluded by the Management Board were disclosed to the Ministry. Not only is this work a loss of trust, but it is also an element of illegality. Who wants to know if I can get a photocopy of the contract that Mr Nyberg has concluded with Mr. Mansson 13. 2. 2015, in which he awarded him an additional EUR 114 000 of gross salary on the basis of the then applicable remuneration policy, but this annex was also concluded contrary to the then remuneration policy adopted by the previous government in 2013 or 2014. This is said to have been a contract which was not disclosed to the Ministry, which was contrary to the then applicable remuneration policy and is illegal in this part. On the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, I explained that not only is this contract illegal, but it is also contrary to the basic principles of corporate remuneration, either on banks or in companies. Because she paid Mr. Mansson performance, business efficiency or variable wage for something that had not yet been done for the period from 1. 8. when retaken this function, up to 30. 6. So it's 13. 2. An addendum to the contract has been concluded which has paid for the future effect or the future work of the Chief Executive Director. If this is no longer a valid reason not only for illegality but for the mismanagement and misconduct of the then administrative board, then I think we are moving here. The second question is why the Government has not decided to resolve all members of the Management Board. From this Governing Board, which has signed this contract, the Government is 5. 3. Resolved three members of the board of directors, Mr Mavko and two foreigners. That's what they say. These two were solved. New members of the Governing Board, if you can listen to me, who have been appointed 5. 3rd, and the work of the 1st took place. 4. This illegal annex has not even been included. They did not participate in it, they did not participate in the acquisition of this annex, nor in its implementation. So calls for the resolution of the average are calls to destabilize the institution, so we understand it, and we practically cannot argue it. This is said to point out once again, I think there are more than substantial reasons why the Chairman of the Management Board has been dismissed and that the Chief Executive Director has been called off. Why was there a difference between one and the other? Another can be interpreted as a voluntary recipient, although he was also committed to respecting the remuneration policy of the DUTB, which at the time had already been discussed with the DUTB, and in this case it was also an obvious avoidance of what the Government wanted to do in the area of remuneration and to which it was publicly called by the Court of Auditors as the Supreme State Auditor. It is said that in this part the Government acted responsibly in accordance with its powers and here all these arguments were already quite clear on the Commission itself. Whoever didn't understand them or who didn't hear them, let's re-emphasize them, you have a copy of that annex here. If anyone wants to have it, he can have it with me, and he can judge for himself. Second, as regards the human resources networks and these indications mentioned in respect of the New Ljubljana Bank, under the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Court of Auditors has all the powers to review at any time any of the companies which are predominantly owned by the State and managed by the Slovenian State Holding. This is said to indicate that the Court of Auditors does not have access to NLB is not accurate, the legal basis is created and can be carried out whenever the audit of the Court of Auditors is initiated in addition to regular commercial audits, but can be carried out in the context of financial reporting and in the framework of standards to be provided by the bank under the Banking Act and under other legal rules. As far as the other networks you mentioned are concerned, I would stress in particular that it is not a matter of any kind of scheme between these different state-owned owners. With full responsibility, I can say that DUTB is one of the operators, as it manages 5 billion state assets at gross value transferred to it, and nothing but a manager of this is an institution that has to carry out its function professionally. In individual cases, however, the DUTB encounters sometimes in different roles with other state funds such as SDH and Kad, which act as owner in particular in cases where companies are in insolvency proceedings where they become insolvent, then, by definition, the roles and positions of these state institutions are contradictory. In these cases, certain coordination and concerted action between these institutions should be ensured so that others do not destroy values or destroy portfolios. These are the solutions that we are proposing in the amendment to the Law on measures to ensure the stability of banks, which are now in the parliamentary process, and you will have the opportunity to comment on them in the parliamentary debate. Thus, in this part, I believe that quality and professional solutions have been set up, following also the recommendations of the European Commission in the process of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, where one of the recommendations proposed by the European Commission to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to introduce a so-called working group, an interinstitutional working group between the Bank of Slovenia, various ministries, a bad bank and state funds, which will coordinate the restructuring and debt activities of companies in debt. I lead this working group within the Government myself, to this place called the Government. In cases where conflict situations such as those mentioned in this case occur, we are trying to ensure that the value of equity shares is not destroyed or that the value of claims is not reduced, but that optimal solutions are found. Once again, this has been done on the recommendation of the European Commission, we are implementing it, this Commission is operating, it has certain results such as these results, you will be able to read in the report of the next European Commission semester, which will be published by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u53	Mag. Ange Logar, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Dragonja has not responded to the main findings I have made. This is where he waved with some kind of pay contract. Mr. Mansson had, I think he's paying 30,000 euros. The president of a bad bank in Ireland and the president of a bad bank in Spain had close to EUR 40,000 to pay. Employees had about once more higher wages on average than in Slovenia's bad bank; if you don't know, look at the statistics. And he waved some papers here, and he apologized, and look at the kind of maggots at the head of a bad bank. But when he puts the president of the bank's credit board, who dug the biggest hole in the banking system, at the head of SDH, who manages 13 billion assets, he doesn't mention a word. And at the head of the board of directors is a bad bank of someone who controlled it then, Mr. Jazbec, not at all. A total of 18 billion assets. Do you know, Mr. Dragonja, how much is Mr. Mansson's salary? That's for 50 years of pay! Look, 50 years of looking at Mr. Mansson here with 30,000 euros in wages, so over what the government allows. For 50 years, they would have watched him not dig such a hole or manage such assets as two of the government's jokers, who come from the New Ljubljana Bank, are now in charge. As far as the requirements are concerned, calls for the replacement of other members of the Management Board, executive and non-executive directors, or that this is an invitation to destabilise the DUTB or something like that. Look, Mr. Secretary lied to you. All right, let's go. Mr. Minister said in this Chamber: "Perhaps only this about the anomalies. As long as the vote ratio between executive and non-executive directors was as simple as those new directors, who were appointed in the spring, could not achieve a wage adjustment." The first thing the minister said, so they knew if they couldn't, so they knew, from the time they were put up, they knew. With this, the Minister knew, because you say that you are running a special group that is still watching over the DUTB, but at the same time, if we take these seven into account, if I understand the Minister's words correctly, explain to me whether I understand them correctly – according to the Minister, the four voted against harmonising these salaries, but the three that you did not. In other words, if the four voted against, why did you keep the two, why did you keep the two Slovenians, and the two of them fired?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u55	Mr. Logar, please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u56	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u57	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Mr Secretary of State, of course, today we can discuss whether the Company for Bank Claims Management, which is a bad bank, is not a bad bank. But we need to know if there's any alternative. We can also talk when we read in the media about the liquidation of such an institution that we have. But I don't see any alternative, no serious alternative to talking about replacing a bad bank with something else. So the bad bank is here, now, and it has to work. Of course, we all want this bad bank to do as optimally as possible, as positively as possible, its mission, which is written down, is also carried out. What is the mission of this bank? We won't be asking what discount the claims were transferred to. The main two missions are, of course, restructuring. I think that this is the most difficult, most important mission, the restructuring of businesses, to make a good enterprise out of an undertaking in an absolutely poor position, to sell it for the optimal price, to preserve jobs and to bring something into the country's budget, to at least some way this hole is being renewed. And, of course, maximizing claims, profits, which is not the main activity of the DUTB, which we have already heard. Of course, there can also be a dilemma when talking about the recommendations from the Commission for the supervision of public finances, what does it mean when we specifically recommend these three companies to the Court of Auditors to examine them from an economic and legal point of view. I am here in this position, and it is also necessary to know whether we accept this recommendation or reject it, and the Court of Auditors will come to the DUTB. That's right. And if they study anything, I'm sure these three companies will be looking into it. This is certainly the very purpose of the Commission's call and the reference of the national assembly to this topic has already been reached. I have to be honest with you, and most people are in favour of such a position to in some way support such a proposal, such a recommendation. Why? Because there are no hiding places in Desus and no individual in Desus, he was in no way involved in any such or other business, and we see no reason for one independent control institution, which is undoubtedly the Court of Auditors, not to forget. However, once again, this Court of Auditors will come to the dutb house. The Court of Auditors must, must, and must, exercise control. And that's right. It is correct to conclude that there was also a practically identical proposal by the coalition members on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. From the magnetogram it is clear that this word syntagma "copy paste" has escaped me, because there is nothing wrong here, the only difference between our proposal for recommendations and the proposal for recommendations from my colleague Vrtovac is this, this has not been said before that we have slightly extended this control of the Court of Auditors and in the word "economy and legality" we have replaced it with "legality". We have added a little more breadth to this, and we wanted this matter to be taken up on the Commission itself to oversee public finances, so that the Court of Auditors will become more familiar with it and that, finally, this control will begin to take place more quickly, which I am sure is in everyone's interest, and in some ways we will avoid, I will use this expression, this very broad debate today, which, in view of the Commission itself, I fear, has brought nothing new, nothing that we would not have heard at that long night session at that time. On conclusion. Of course, I focused exclusively on the bad bank, I wasn't talking about SDH here, I wasn't talking about other things here. If I had the opportunity to extend these recommendations now, to supplement them and to extend them and complement them by also reviewing the legality and cost-effectiveness of the representative in this area, as so many words were made yesterday about the representative only by the proposers and only two budgetary users. I see no reason to look closely at the control of the function of the DUTB, so that the representatives can also be checked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. This year we will only pay around €1 billion and €200 million for interest, over a billion over the next few years. The government, which lasted only one year, was in debt for 8 billion, of which 5 billion went into the main public banking system. It was likely that the collateral damage to the hole that had been created in the state banks until then was being remedied. This condition is not normal. And it is not normal for this to be done by the called institutions, nor by the Government, nor by the President of the Government, nor by Parliament, to follow in an appropriate way the flow of public money. It is not possible to determine how such a quantity of euro is managed and what result this management will give. There's obviously something wrong here. Whether legislation needs to be amended and in some way ensured that every public euro is traceable as far as possible, because if we do not do so, we simply risk that these situations will be constantly repeated as they have been in the past. I know that, for example, the Court of Auditors has a discretionary right to examine what will be a priority. But the fact is that no one knows, for example, what's been going on in the New Ljubljana Bank for so long, is strange in terms of us, in terms of taxpayers, of all people. We are at least a billion euros a year, at the expense of investments, the quality of services available to citizens and so on. The country's been humiliated for this job. I hope that the measures now being prepared by the government, as announced by the Secretary of State, will help. I'm sure that won't be enough. And even if the Commission cannot reach one conclusion on this for the supervision of public finances, it is unacceptable. This is simply unacceptable. If any authority in this country is allowed and must have a review of how public money is spent, it is Parliament. Just as Parliament has adopted laws that have been violated in granting loans without guarantees, for example. No marriage in Slovenia has ever allowed this. Banka Slovenije or its representatives told the Committee on Finance that they had filed several complaints because they themselves found that some frauds had taken place, but it had been almost four years and it was none of that. So do institutions operate in Slovenia or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare the mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary! Of course, I am not some specialist on economic issues, but I am separating if the company is insolvent and if the company is liquid. Of course I do, so it doesn't even occur to me if I can say so badly that I would defend T-2 and say Savo, d. d. But today we are only talking about a recommendation to the Court of Auditors, and I do not think there is any tragedy if we define a positive approach to this recommendation. But the fact is, as far as DUTB is concerned, whether or not the Bank of Slovenia and also the New Ljubljana Bank, everything is hidden, everything is arrogant, we must know nothing and we must not get any information. But everywhere, there are one and the same people — like performers or overseers. But as contractors, they can make mistakes, but as supervisors, they don't work, as I can track it mostly from the paper. The Court of Auditors already has a right or even a plan to review the functioning of the DUTB, but we are actually only talking today at the level of a moral issue, whether we support it or not, because that is actually its perfect right. I, too, am not asking today the existence of DUMB, although I must say that Dr. Tynikar was very convincing last time in the Saturday Annex when he was explaining the mechanisms of functioning and the question whether it was necessary or not. But we do have it today, and if DUTB is really going to work in the area of economic restructuring, not just selling businesses, then, of course, its existence is absolutely justified. Of course, the thesis, which was also in this article and I fully support it, is that nowhere is it said that ours are only bad and that foreigners are honest, good, which, of course, are extremely good or better paid than any of our officials, but of course we cannot stay on this issue. I think there is also a problem with foreigners, so I understood the Government when it was determined that they were simply working in violation of the law or agreements. That is why I do not understand this great enthusiasm of some who claim that we must have in this area people who are paid as paid abroad, because we have doctors working at the European level, we have scientists, we have professors and so on, who work at the European level, they have our salaries. Finally, if I can make it, it's just a story. The last time I was in the State Council, the National Assembly ordered the Court of Auditors to control us because they wanted to shut us down. We were happy because it turned out that we had nothing to hide and that there were no irregularities. In this sense, I do not think there will be any tragedy today if this conclusion is supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the Bank Claims Management Company, we need to clear up some things that may be repeatedly stressed by us, or more often by my colleagues here. Mainly on the DUTB objectives and so on. Here I would like to draw your attention to a matter, and it is necessary to be very exact here. These goals are enshrined in the law. It is a special law and the aim is to make as much money available to taxpayers as possible in seven years to sell 10% of the assets per year. So everything else is secondary. All other objectives, including restructuring and so on and job provision, I understand that it is the general objective of the State, but it is not in the law governing the functioning of the Bank Claims Management Company. The government, I think two years ago, a year and a half ago, would have come by law and adopted other goals and changes of law, whatever. But it's not like that. This is why people who are employed there are under the legal standard that they have to sell 10% of their assets each year and that they will operate for another two years or three years. I don't want to talk about goals being something else. They are until the government comes with a new law. The government, here is the Secretary of State or Minister, always says we'll come, we've already put the law into the National Assembly and so on. Look, it has to be accepted, then it has to be implemented, it takes time. At one point, the goals are as they are. About what I've already said at the beginning, where it's the cause and where it's the result. I would like to refer to my colleague, Mr Battelli, when he said about how much we have in the National Assembly of Rights and how much we actually get data on financial flows in the country, that the country is humiliated. Let me go ahead here and say yes, citizens and citizens are humiliated. Because in the National Assembly, we just can't get to some institutions. Regardless of the constitutional principle that the National Assembly is in control of the Bank of Slovenia, we cannot reach that point. And here, ladies and gentlemen, pour yourself some pure wine. We have already discussed the Act amending the Banka Slovenije Act, banking law and so on, where we wanted this control to be determined in an exact manner, what is already stated in the Constitution is that it is only yet to be determined. The coalition was against it. Of course, that's when the ECB's opinions come, such opinions come, different opinions that aren't even mandatory. We have re- tabled the Bank of Slovenia Act. I can tell you with confidence that in Austria the Court of Auditors controls the Bank of Slovenia. It's similar in Germany. But there's always a lot of excuses here, and then we're surprised we don't have control over the financial flows in the country. And that's where it all starts at the bank. When I talk about the causes and if I talk about the state bank, the largest state bank, this is the New Ljubljana Bank, it has made the biggest bank hole because it is the biggest because it was involved in all the loans that were bad and so on. But there's no access to it. These are some, I don't know, fortresses that are simply from the point of view of control unconquerable. They simply cannot be won by the National Assembly, by the Government and so on. And then we're talking about the personnel that Mr Logar was talking about, and here the staff are circling the tops of these societies, once in executive power, the second time in supervisory function and the circle is then more or less completed here. Look, I think if we're talking about the Bank Claims Management Company today, it's going to show how successful this company is actually going to be in the future. So far, speaking of success, I think she's assured me, the latest information, that the Secretary of State can fix me, about 400 million dollars in refund money, and from this point of view, of course, the refund is successful. If there are any other objectives, if the objectives of the new law are to be re-announced, then we will talk about whether the primary objective is to recover part of taxpayers' money, which has given three billion euros, back or not. We will see if this goal is actually realized. I would also, of course, provide another explanation for the Commission for the supervision of public finances and for the proposed conclusions. One is the Commission's proposals to be monitored. And that's what the commission does every year. Each year, he sends at least five proposals to the Court of Auditors. You all had a chance to tell me who to examine next year. The other is those decisions adopted by the Commission at its meetings, which are to some extent binding, but may also be non-binding to the Court of Auditors and to all others. So this procedure is in force here and these conclusions are in fact not mutually exclusive. In fact, it is true that for the next year, for 2016, when we are also making proposals, it is likely that some other users of public funds should be reviewed. I think that, in terms of clarifying all matters, this meeting was certainly necessary in order for much to be clarified. I hope that, on the basis of all the decisions made by the Court of Auditors, financial operations will make all state authorities more transparent, and that they will also make efforts in those areas which, according to the President of the Court of Auditors' latest statements, may not be the most up-to-date for him today. I hope that other users of public funds will also perform with the same vat, including public statements. Above all, I am thinking here about health care and the Bank of Slovenia, that it will be as transparent as possible for all users of public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and the proposer will be given the floor. First of all, the representative of the Government, Mr Method Dragonja, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is also my assessment, and I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Shirtzl, that the meeting was necessary for the discussion to be useful. I hope that we have clarified some additional things, especially how the bad bank works and what needs to be upgraded and repaired in the functioning of the bad bank. In this direction, the Government and the Ministry are working to further improve the functioning of the bad bank as a specific financial institution. Above all, in this direction, the bad bank will sell functioning companies, companies that will still operate, create functions, and not sell dead people, if I say so in narration. As early as early as November, the parent labour force, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, will be considering a proposal for a novel adopted by the Government and coordinated with a large number of key stakeholders in this process, which I hope will ensure that the poor bank will work even more effectively and that it can, in fact, extend its objectives in the direction of its action, as demonstrated by today's debate. As regards the proposed conclusions, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall meet at its 22nd meeting. Ten. On the proposal for a recommendation on the functioning of the DUTB in relation to companies and companies whose bank claims have been transferred to the DUTB, she decided not to define this proposal. While monitoring the legality, purpose, economic and efficient use of DUTB funds is carried out annually by the Court of Auditors in accordance with the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. In assessing whether DUTB’s behaviour was cost-effective and efficient in particular cases, the Government considers that the DUTB’s performance should be taken into account, which is aimed at maximising the payment of claims transferred to DUTB. This is the position of the Government as a collective body, which I am obliged to convey to the National Assembly, Members and Members when you vote on the proposed decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u67	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr Secretary of State! I share the view that today's meeting was necessary and that, even though we have already held this extensive debate on the Commission for the Supervision of Public Finance, we have also today tried to dispel the doubts that are emerging from us. Firstly, the fairness of the DUTB’s operation is not guaranteed in all cases or that there is a partial interest and, secondly, in the discharge of the DUB’s leadership. In fact, today's debate also revolved around these two elements or points, and in particular this first part. I hope that the final decision of the Court of Auditors will also be shown here whether certain suspicions are justified or not. At the second point, it is true that the DUB leadership is relieved, and, if I have correctly observed, Minister Marble said that the discharge of leadership was not the result of lobby pressure, so he rejected Nyberg's letter and called it unrealistic. However, if the issue arises, or even the claim that DUTB acted unlawfully, and this has been undermined by confidence in the financial ministry and the whole government, then it is right if the legislation has been breached, that the Government should also consider bringing criminal charges if the state budget has been damaged and illegal. Anyone who violates the legislation, in this case also a Member and Members of Parliament, ministers, anyone in this country, must be informed. If you claim and insist that they have acted unlawfully, then go to the end. DUTB is essentially due to the fact that individuals have robbed our banks in the past. To a certain extent, this has already been demonstrated in such a pyramid by Mr Logar when he showed the interplay of individuals. He only forgot to mention a lady or a woman, and if I am not mistaken about one of the gentlemen who is employed by the Director for Budget, we get such a beautiful triangle. We were the banks that were robbed, saved with taxpayers ’ money, or repaired by taxpayers. The source of all evil is, as we have been saying for a long time, the New Ljubljana Bank, a fortress to which they can come or have a free path in the management and control function, only to say so. And any supervision of the New Ljubljana Bank is, in fact, both to politicians and others who are not dedicated, undesirable. More. Even criminals, NPUs, prosecutors, can't reveal bank holes or culprits for a bank hole, because the so-called bank secrecy is an obstacle that prevents law enforcement authorities from finding the culprits. As a result, they have the opportunity to investigate the bank hole of the companies concerned, as far as NLB is concerned, which is very unusual. In our country, someone who enters into a contract with the New Ljubljana Bank has access to all credit maps, and someone who is established by law as a state is called an NPU, criminalists, has no insight into these credit maps. This is our country. And the fear that there is no such control is, of course, that something can soon lead to a new bank hole in the same number, and the taxpayers will again be the ones who will have to fix this bank hole. It's over. Dutb is definitely needed. I reject these claims that the DUTB must be dissolved, abolished and so on. Look, it's not working. Dutb is needed, but under the guidance of the people who made the hole, surely not. But the last intentions point to the opposite. They show that those who are responsible for the bank hole are talking about this triangle, which, as I have already said, is well stated by Mr Logar, today the main stakeholders or those who are staffed, those who are placed in the decision-making boards and so on. That's why the government has a difficult task, a task of curbing these interests in the future. I believe it's not easy. The privatisation of Telekom began, and the impact of lobbying and networks continued with the bad bank. Yesterday we were SDH's story. And one and the same people have been watching for 30 or 50 years. I'm afraid that then the taxpayers' bill for this type of personnel will be put out very soon in the form of bank rehabilitation. Of course, if there is no control and if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not restrain these interested groups of the same people who are collapsing from the administration to the administration. So the responsibility, Mr. Secretary of State, is on your side. Thank you very much for the debate and the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 20. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the debate, I am putting forward a proposal for a recommendation and an amendment from the Joint Left to the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of the operation of the Bank Claims Management Company in relation to companies and companies whose bank claims have been transferred to the Bank Claims Management Company. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In the United Left we estimate that this recommendation is short for three points and we added these three additional paragraphs in the amendment. The first is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government to resolve the existing Management Board of the Company for Bank Claims Management and appoint a new one. The following is to check with the Commission to prevent corruption under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption to examine the irreconcilability of the function and the conflicts of interest of the Chief Executive Director of DUB, Imre Balogh, who was also the President of Probank's Extraordinary Administrations, and the following to do likewise by establishing the incompatibility of the function and conflict of interest of Janez Škrube, who had previously served as Executive Director, as a lobbyist with Deloitte and a lobby for the sale of T-2 Austria Telekom. As far as the first one is concerned, here I think we need to talk a little bit wider than the responsibility of individuals, but we need to include the whole administration here, because in fact, despite the fact that the finance minister feels otherwise, the bad bank has acted completely wrong or wrong. This clearly shows the moves that this company has taken. DUTB does some damage to the state at a billionth level. When poor loans were identified, about 10 billion values were estimated at current knowledge of 5 billion. That was, of course, not enough. New foreign evaluators then dropped this estimate to 3 billion, which was acceptable, and in fact it was a loss of 7 billion. Now a bad bank has come and sold these 3 billion. They were worth at least 8 billion and sold for 4 billion, and eventually we'll have 30% of the ransom, and the country is essentially losing 4 billion. On the basis of this work, DUTB employees will continue to pay fantastic prizes, so we add this recommendation, saying that the whole committee will be resolved because it is better to pay millions of damages at this point than to keep these people going and continue to work or continue to do this billion-dollar damage. We must not forget that these figures only include losses from financial operations and, for example, these figures do not include the costs incurred by the State in the cases of redundancies from those companies when unemployment is unnecessarily increased, the losses will be due to lost duties and social transfers. As the valuation of real estate takes place, for example, this is another point that shows why this administration needs to be fully resolved, we were able to see this year when police officers detained a real estate valuer who was employed in the DUB and who, in exchange for a more favourable valuation of property in the Maribor area, demanded 40,000 euro bribes. He also received a portion of the bribe while being accompanied by police officers when he was under control. While the appreciater was immediately removed from his duties at DUTB, Simona Rodež of DUTB then stated that the tolerance of DUTB for such acts is null and void, but with everything going on at DUTB, this is hard to believe. Some economists, too, insist on or justify the high wages of the DUTB with the complexity of the work carried out by employees. So far, the work of the DUTB shows that they are nothing more than intermediaries to sell bad bank claims. Simply put, bad claims are taken from banks and then sold under the price of speculative capital on international financial markets. And that's all they actually do. This was, for example, the most resilient business that was carried out in March of this year when the Autocommerce (ACH) claim package was sold by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Polzele, Elana and Adria Airways. The value of the package was 130 million and DUTB sold it for 106. Merrill Lynch sold this package to the Russian venture capital fund VR Capital a few weeks later. The DUTB did so despite the fact that the ACH had already concluded a financial restructuring agreement with the banks in December 2014, which it implements prematurely and better than envisaged. The same is true of Elan, who operates above average and easily repays his loans. As DUTB is now attempting to send a T-2 to bankruptcy, he has already sent a TIB Transport company to bankruptcy last year. The bankruptcy was, of course, opposed by both trade unions, FURS, Eco Fund and Petrol, but DUTB does not care about restructuring the economy, but rather about destroying the economy, and this through the line of least resistance. Save Tourism and T-2 are the latest examples of how this is happening. These two cases were not isolated, they were not the only ones, and of course this raises the issue of the full functioning of the DURB administration. As a matter of fact, it is necessary, not only to resolve the entire board of directors and to appoint a new one. As far as the other two supplements to the recommendations are concerned, points 3 and 4 or paragraphs are concerned, of course, are not only disputed by Shkrubej and Balogh, for which we propose that their functions and conflicts of interest be examined by the KPK. Simoneti’s role, for example, in lending bad loans to NLB, which are now at DUTB, was discussed earlier by his colleague Logar. Then there is Executive Director Aleš Koršič, who was, before he was on this site, a consultant in Cimos, where DUTB carried out a process of forced settlement. While we do not claim with certainty that all these people have been in conflict of interest, that they have acted in any way wrong, it is essential at this point that we obtain new data because we do not have them now. The incompatibilities of the former and current functions of Balogh remain without question. And it is already too much for this board of directors to continue working with the confidence of politics and the public. At least as far as Balogha and Škrube are concerned, it is likely that sufficient evidence and sufficient indications are provided for the establishment of controls and the Commission to prevent corruption is also actually conducting this investigation and to determine whether there has been a conflict of interest and whether such designation has been unjustified, which makes it disputed in itself. These recommendations are an addition to this first one and go even further. In short, if we want DUTB to carry out its task, and this is not a sale of property or assets, but its function should be the basic rehabilitation of these companies, which must also include employees. It is said that they will actually be able to maintain their jobs. In order for these companies to come to life without only being sold out, if I say so, it is essential that at least the administration is replaced at this point and that supervision of the persons currently appointed is put in place. I therefore appeal to my colleagues' common sense to support these amendments, it is said, an addition to this recommendation, which can only be achieved by moving this DUTB story in a slightly better direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Methods of Dragonja, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In the brief position of the Minister by the Government. As regards the amendment referred to in point 2, the proposal to resolve the entire existing Management Board. We have already explained in the previous discussion that the Government estimates that there are no compelling reasons on the part of the other members of the Management Board, which relates to the irregularities and illegality found in the functioning of the DUTB. That's why the government didn't go so far as to resolve the entire board of directors. As regards the proposals under points 3 and 4, it has also been clarified that the past functions of the two members of the Management Board they have carried out in the past and that they no longer perform these functions. According to the Government's assessment, there is no direct conflict of interest by definition of the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. In addition, there are appropriate policies or internal rules imposing on members of the Management Board to be excluded in possible procedures where conflicts of interest could affect the correctness and objectivity of the performance of the DUTB. We therefore assess that, subject to these internal rules and procedures, there can be no conflict of interest. However, if the National Assembly considers that the same should be checked by the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Commission, as the most competent in this area, will make this assessment as an independent body within its competence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On behalf of the President, the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President of the European Union, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the April 2009 on the European will and totalitarianism. The proposal for a declaration was submitted to the assembly by a group of 21 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, first signed. With regard to this proposal for a declaration, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal for a declaration, I give the floor to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u73	Your Honor! It is now 70 years since the establishment of the United Nations in San Francisco. After World War II, the Founding Countries committed themselves to maintaining peace and security, developing friendly relations among nations and promoting social progress, a better standard of living and human rights. The nations have committed themselves to common values essential to the existence of humanity. This is also the case with the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Is our value system built to the point where we are able to condemn all three forms of totalitarianism, all three forms of tyranny, without excuse? Your Honor! Violence is violence, murder is murder, genocide is genocide, no matter when and what system is responsible for it. It is the most rejected acts to which no one close to human rights should cultivate an intimate relationship. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose a motion for a resolution on support for the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism again because we are convinced that our dialogue so far has not been sufficient. Because we are convinced that, as responsible individuals and as elected representatives of the nation, we are able to do more than get acquainted with such important and profound content. Today's debate, and finally the decision on whether we are able to support and internalise it, will also answer the simple question: do we belong to European civilisation values or do we remain abroad and will we continue to live in denial and seek apologies for the horrors that should never have happened? The proposed resolution is exactly the same as adopted by the European Parliament in 2009. Nothing in it has been added or withdrawn. This is not a document of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is a text supported in the European Parliament by central, left-centre and right-centred parties, with a large majority. All Slovenian Members of the European Parliament at the time, too. Some years ago, American President Obama, in his speech at the museum of the Holocaust, stressed that state sovereignty never permits slaughter of its own people. Armenian genocide, Holocaust, Communist cleansing, Holocaust in Ukraine, Srebrenica, Ukraine, Syria. All of these events have the same foretaste, systematic destruction, in which comes the most dark moral of the mind. Crimes against humanity, human rights violations, the beating of dignity cannot be dealt with selectively and discriminatingly – and even less with the excuse of any of them. It doesn't matter which system caused them, but it's important that we condemn them together and make them clear that we don't. No manipulations, no distractions. Colleagues and colleagues! Any debate on the redefinition of our history is now superfluous and totally unnecessary. History has already happened, is known and speaks for itself. Such a debate would mean only malicious deception and distance from the fundamental essence, whether we are prepared to build a system of values for our own democratically advanced society, where each thing stands in its proper place. Even historical facts. Only on the basis of clear values will we, as individuals and as a society, be able to make better decisions. If everything in our country is really as beautiful and right as you want to show those who are beating up the text of the resolution in all possible ways – why are we still looking at the central Slovenian market as a monument to totalitarianism? Why are we closing the archives, why have we not yet buried all the dead in a worthy and worthy way? Their descendants can't even do that because they're gone. They were deprived of their fundamental right — life itself. By rejecting the resolution, we deny them the last chance to rehabilitate their suffering and dignity. Your Honor! Are we finally able in Slovenia to confirm the text of the resolution and to express a unified respect for all victims of totalitarian regimes and to demonstrate our commitment to a peaceful and successful Europe? Our future depends on what kind of value system we are able to establish. And that's what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u74	The proposal for a declaration is 7. Ten. 2015 discussed by the Committee on Justice. As the Committee did not adopt all the chapters of the proposal for a declaration after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the proposal for a declaration at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u75	Dear, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Justice shall meet at its 14th session, on 7. Ten. 2015 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a declaration of support to the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism submitted by the Group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank. The Committee took note of the following material: a proposal for a declaration published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 24. 8. 2015, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the applicant, Mrs Eva Irgl presented the purpose and objectives of the proposal for a declaration in a supplementary explanation. She stressed that the proposed text had been tabled for the third time and expected that Slovenian policy would finally be able to condemn all three totalitarianisms, including the communist regime and the post-war revolution, as the European Parliament had done. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the PSC has no comments on the text of the proposal. The representative of the Ministry of Justice, the Secretary of State, stressed that the Government did not see the reasons or new circumstances that would lead to the adoption of the proposed declaration for the second time this year. Following a thorough discussion on 22 October 2009, the European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism was adopted and published in the Official Journal, which is why the Government does not support the proposed declaration. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee, on behalf of the groups of Members, gave reasons and reasons why they did not support the proposal. They highlighted a number of key points relating to the content that has been discussed for the third time. In particular, they stressed that the European Parliament's resolution also explicitly refers to the fact that no political party or body has the exclusive right to interpret history and that historical facts should not be imposed by majority decisions in Parliament. They respect the resolution adopted in 2009 and no longer want to participate in unnecessary ideological debates. No amendments were tabled within the time limit set for the proposal for a declaration. In accordance with Articles 126 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on all the chapters of the Proposal for a Declaration and did not adopt them. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Rule 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee concluded that the proposal for a declaration of support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism on the home working body had been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u77	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism six years ago. With it, both the European left and the right have united, as it has been supported by the vast majority of European Members. In the European Parliament, therefore, this resolution unanimously supported all seven Slovenian Members in the European Parliament. In this resolution, the European Parliament strongly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by totalitarian and authoritarian regimes: fascism, Nazism and communism. Slovenia is the only country in Europe that has been oppressed by all three of the worst totalitarianisms 20. For centuries, fascism, Nazism and communism. But communism has caused far the most distress in our country. And worst of all, the vast majority of the victims were tragically killed in the months following World War II. In Slovenia, over 600 hidden war graves have so far been recorded, where about 15,000 Slovenians are buried. We haven't buried all these victims until today. At the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, it is now high time we fulfilled this basic civil duty. For this reason, in Novi Slovenija we prepared the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims, which was adopted this July, which will allow procedures for the detection of hidden war graves, a decent burial of the victims and marking their grave and memory. If we quote the esteemed former President of the SAZU, Mr Jože Trontl, unfortunately already deceased, I quote: "Naziism and fascism will never be blamed for World War II, for the terrible woes that have caused to many nations, for the millions of victims who have fallen in conflict, were killed in camps or in interwar destruction. But the fact is that the third totalitarian system, communism with new horrors, has entered into the war." End of quote. All three totalitarians are therefore worthy of conviction. One of the content of this European resolution is also the adoption of Members to become a pan-European day of remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, which we support in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Maintaining the memory of these events and their relevant historical evaluation is certainly one of the important assurances that such an event will not happen again in the future. In this direction, it is also very important to educate in the spirit of democratic values, which promotes critical thinking and makes it possible to mature in values. At this point, let us stress the importance of family and child rearing in the spirit of social values, which is extremely important for the further personal development of an individual.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mr Dušan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We regret that today's debate and all those we have witnessed in connection with the proposed act have already taken place at the Committee level. The challenging, insincere, incendiary and incendiary debates on Slovenian half-time history are falling to infertile ground and our citizens and citizens do not bring any benefits, and the political body is moving away from the real everyday challenges. But we do not reject the proposal for a declaration of support for the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism simply because of its unconstructivity, but we base our decision on both formal, substantive and contextual arguments. The European Parliament represents a supranational institution of European political space of exceptional importance, which adopts both legislative and political acts as part of its work. Among the latter are a number of resolutions, including the resolution in question. All these adopted acts, regardless of what individual European countries, parties or other social groups think of them, have become part of the European political order and the value field by adopting them in the European Parliament. Resolutions express the will of a democratically loved supranational representative body. In no case do such resolutions express or express the sovereign will of national parliaments, which draw their legitimacy and sovereignty from a completely different basis. We therefore respect the political acts of the European Parliament, including the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, in the SMC Group. However, we are opposed to the introduction of innovative procedural practices by which, on the proposal of the single party option, the National Assembly would adopt or approve such a resolution. Such an approach is politically unacceptable and questionable. Moreover, based on a study carried out by the Research Section of the National Assembly, such an approach is incompatible with the other countries of the European Union, where parliamentary committees are merely familiar with European Parliament resolutions and in rare cases. In view of the above, the adoption of the proposed act would not last place the declaration in question in a hierarchically higher position than other European Parliament resolutions, in the absence of any priority criteria or criteria in full. We believe that this is inappropriate and harmful both for the reputation of this national assembly and for the importance of the political acts adopted at the level of the institutions of the European Union. We must also remember that the National Assembly, with the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, was informed in its own declaration in 2009. By adopting this proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party, two different political acts on the same content would be present, but with a different definition. This also raises the question of hierarchy between the two acts of political nature. In the SMC Group, we consider the declaration to be inadequate and inappropriate. However, we have already expressed this view several times in the debates both at the Committee and at the meeting of the National Assembly itself. The proposal remains with the same content, and Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party remain in the same decision. The proposal for a declaration in support of the European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! For the third time in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been investing in the National Assembly a resolution of the European Parliament on European consciousness and totalitarianism. And it appears that, given that the parties to the coalition, the United Left and also the unrelated Members do not support the content of the resolution this time, it will probably be necessary to recall more than once the resolution, and in particular what it says. However, one day in this House, with another set of parties, we may gain support for the European Parliament Resolution, when the awareness of the importance of a single conviction of totalitarian regimes by policy is significantly higher. For the first time, dear colleagues and colleagues, we tabled a resolution in the National Assembly a little after it was confirmed by the European Parliament and voted for by all the then Slovenian MEPs, regardless of the political colour. At that time, they were under the watchful eye of the European public, and it would be difficult to oppose such content, which does not speak of anything other than respect for basic civil standards, respect for victims and the memory of our tragic common past. It would be a shame not to confirm such content, but simply too much in the European space. However, Members of the left have a completely different face for the local public than they show abroad. One of the Slovenian MEPs back then in the European Parliament, for example, supported the resolution, and at home, when it came to a safe haven, it marked it as a simple one. For the second time, we tabled a resolution of the European Parliament on European consciousness and totalitarianism in the National Assembly at the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II and the 20th anniversary of genocide in Srebrenica. This seemed a good time for us all to look at the horrors of the war and the post-war period through the debate. To respect, and in particular with compassion, the victims caused by totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, and in particular to support by voting the content of a resolution based on documents already adopted, such as the Resolution on Measures to Eliminate the Heritage of the Former Communist Regimes and the Prague Declaration on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism. For the third time, however, we put a resolution into the National Assembly on 23 August, the day of the remembrance of all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. On a day that was proposed by the European Parliament's resolution in memory and reminder, and the content of which Members of the SMC, Desus, SD, United Left and unrelated Members disagree and do not support. The resolution condemns totalitarian regimes and stresses the need to preserve the memory of the past, because without truth and memory there can be no reconciliation. At the same time, it strongly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. However, the victims of these crimes and their family members are empathetic, understanding and acknowledging their suffering. In its resolution, the European Parliament calls, inter alia, on Member States to make a genuine and sincere effort to open archives, including archives of the former secret political police. With us, unfortunately, all works are still in the way of preventing access to archival materials and even equalizing victims and perpetrators of crimes, which is totally unacceptable and unacceptable to us. The fact is that in some countries of Eastern Europe, which have come out of the communist system, access to documents that are important to individuals and to scientific research is still unduly restricted, as the resolution of the European Parliament also points out. The European awareness of the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes needs to be strengthened. This can only be done by supporting documentation and witnessing about the restless European past, because there can be no reconciliation without memory. At the last presentation of my position on the European Parliament's resolution, I said that all totalitarian regimes had a common basis for systemic and planned violations of human rights. They violated them to come to power and to keep themselves in power. But for the purpose of taking over the authorities, they used secret armed forces. With us VOS, KNOJ, ZNA, and in later years the Udva and the State Security Service. So the State Security Service, which was designated by the Supreme Court in its decision, was a criminal organisation that not only fabricated, counterfeited and suppressed burdensome evidence, but also kidnapped and disposed of people. Not long ago, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have also dealt with the killings committed by the former State Security Service on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. At that time, Nikola Štedul, who survived the assassination carried out by the former State Security Service, told us in his very long but very thorough discussion. For information only, procedures are under way in Germany and Austria, such as against Janez Zemljaric and Silva Gorenc, who were the highest in the functions of the State Security Service. In some ways, I understand why the left cannot and cannot support this resolution. Because there are quite a few members of the State Security Service who are currently serving in this National Assembly in your ranks. Some even represent the highest functions in parliamentary democracy. Dear Members and honourable Members! Slovenian policy should first be able to single-judge a painful historical experience. Slovenian policy should be able to condemn the communist regime and the post-war revolution, as the European Parliament has done. It is high time for all Members to do so, and this is united within their constitutional powers, this is under a formal act. And support for the European Parliament's resolution could undoubtedly be appropriate for such a step. I have repeatedly stressed that crimes and human rights violations cannot be distinguished according to what totalitarianism has been committed. So we cannot distinguish between the crimes committed by fascism or Nazism or the crimes committed by communism. It was common for all three of them to have gravely violated human rights in order to achieve their goals. The conviction must therefore be clear and not discriminatory in any way. The fact that you insist on not condemning totalitarianism in the parties to the left, as well as unrelated Members and all the parties to the coalition I listed earlier, can only mean that you care about the victims and that in some way you approve of crimes and human rights violations. Such thinking, however, creates circumstances that the history of totalitarianism can be repeated. Let's just remember Srebrenica. Crime in Srebrenica and after the war of 1945, that is, the killings that took place were committed by practically the same people or successors of the same regime. We might be able to prevent this by condemning at the right time all events that took place immediately after the war in 1945. Slovenia is part of a common European space created in a joint fight against all totalitarianism, as the resolution also notes. The fight against totalitarianism has strengthened European integration. And even today, as we face the migration crisis, Europe should find common solutions in the direction of protecting European values and protecting the Member States of the European Union. Now let me continue with the next issue, which is about the present, the future and also the past. I ask you where the countries of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Estonia are in economic terms. What places do these countries occupy on international scales measuring the performance of countries measuring competitiveness and economic efficiency that measure respect for human rights and the effectiveness of the rule of law? If we look at Poland. For example, Poland has not entered the crisis in 2008 and has been an economically and economically successful country for some time now. Since then, since 2008, it may not be too much to say, it has been run by right governments. Even after the last elections a few days ago, Parliament appears to be composed only of right-wing and right-centred parties. Of course there is a question here especially for those who come from the left – what does this information tell you? Estonia has, for example, gone in the opposite direction of national interest, but this does not mean that they are not nationally aware. This has nothing to do with national awareness. This means that they did not keep everything but allowed the arrival of foreign capital and that is why they are now an economically and economically successful country. If we look at the Czech Republic. For example, before World War II, the Czech Republic was one of the most developed countries in Europe. But then what happened? After World War II, the country ruled the communist system and the Czech Republic returned. Today, because of its various lustration procedures, the Czech Republic has overtaken us again. Hungary. Here we can see at all in the light of the migrant crisis, that it is an important protection of European values, the protection of citizens and citizens. All these countries that I have just mentioned are in common to outrun us on all international scales. It's no big deal to remind you that we're in the first place after human rights violations. This is what the European Court of Human Rights says. On the economic freedom scale, we are among 152 countries in 111th place in 2015 and in 2014 we are in 105th place. It is also common for all these countries to get out of the communist system. Just like Slovenia came out. However, it is essential for us to make a difference that in some segments we are still thinking deeply in it. It is also common for these countries to have dealt with the communist past as opposed to us. Maybe that's why the results? Or is that why the results are better? The statues of Lenin, Stalin have been cleaned up, and we still have the streets and squares of criminal Titus. I think Bild put him in the fifth place of the greatest criminals of all time. All these countries in one way or another have made a chandelier and condemned the communist regime. Unfortunately for us, colleagues and colleagues, you can't, you can't, you don't want to condemn fascism, Nazism and communism. If we look even more closely at what happened in the Czech Republic, so to speak. We all know the velvet revolution that took place in 1989. It lasted from November 17th to 29th. December. And this velvet revolution was the one that brought down the communist regime. At that time, Vaclav Havel played a key role, the first to sign the already mentioned powder statement, which was originally envisaged even as a common statement by the European Union in the fight against totalitarianism and common European values. The declaration was then signed by thousands of Europeans. Among them are known and respected personalities who are aware that Europe can only survive if, for the first time, it holds together in the fight against totalitarian regimes, secondly if it condemns totalitarian regimes and thus shows that it leaves the craftsmen a valuable system that condemns the crime of persecuting criminals for the third time, only if it warns and in depth discusses our common tragic past. With us, in this House, any debate on half-time history simply turns into a cultural struggle and ideological theme. However, here we are not talking about ideological themes, but we are talking about our shared responsibility to victims, human dignity and what is ethical and right. In the spring of 1992, the Czech Republic published a full list of state security associates, which then triggered natural ones, I will say, in itself, lustration procedures in public institutions and organisations. In our country today, however, members of the State Security Service still sit in high positions, or we find them at all levels of social life because they still shape our destiny. The Czech Republic then adopted the Law on the Criminality of the Communist Regime and introduced lustration laws on several levels. But we didn't do any of that with us. With us, politics is not able to condemn all totalitarian regimes that have gravely violated human rights and have caused much distress to the Slovenian people. So let's look at some important data that shows the whole dimension of the communist system that took place in Slovenia. In Slovenia we have more than six hidden mass seas at this time, some areas are still unexplored. Criminals have never been persecuted, even though in the context of the Agreement, they have obtained evidence pointing to certain names. A number of thousands of convictions were later abolished as a result of criminal convictions. Among them is the judgment against certain members of the Hazard Group. It was the profaning of a good name, the intimidation, of deliberate injustices. And in some cases, apparently, there is nothing different today. At the highest two functions in the judiciary, we have persons who have violated human rights in the previous system as well as in the current system. We know a large number of cut-off political processes, confiscation of property, forced labour, from that time on we know the Goli Island and other camps or prisons where political prisoners were imprisoned. Let me mention here Mr Adem Demation, Members of the coalition did not seem worthy to come to the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, although this is an exceptional man from whom we could learn a lot. Perhaps we would then support such a resolution. He was imprisoned for 18 years because he resisted Titus' regime and wanted freedom and democracy. He became a prisoner of news, organized by Amnesty International. That one gave him that name. He's the winner of the Sahara Prize. Or if we look only at the Slovenian territory, Andrej Applenc is also a prisoner on the Golem Island. A very important signal would be given especially to young people for the future if they adopted a resolution. All those who talk about such topics in this National Assembly talk a lot about the future, let me tell you, should be built with action and not with words. We need to build the future with action. And it is important that we also show the younger generations that we are united on these issues when it comes to condemning totalitarian regimes. Slovenia is in a slightly different position from other Eastern European countries, which have also emerged from communism, because they have, as has already been said, performed lustration in such a way or other ways. Unfortunately, we still have privileges that come from the former system. The European Parliament resolution also speaks of the need to open archives in full, including archives of the former secret political police. However, we did the opposite with the adoption of the Law on Archive Material. Due to anonymisation procedures, we have technically closed access to archival materials to researchers, publicists and historians. Up to that little material left, about 20%, but when we speak strictly about the service of state security, only 5%, today is extremely difficult to reach or are completely black and as such completely useless to researchers. No one was responsible for the destruction of archival material in our country, even though it was a crime and a cultural genocide. Here I can say that, I think now two years from now, I am going to press charges against the prosecution and the police against the former Head of State Security of Mr Ivan Eržen for the suspicion of destroying the archival material because Mr Eržen gave a mandatory instruction on the destruction of the archival material, and that actually happened then, I think in three stages. But the last one, the key happened in 1991. However, I see that nothing moves in this direction. Perhaps there is more to this matter than the former president of the state, Milan Kučan, who was then the highest official in the country. I'm sure he knew about all these instructions, mandatory and optional, and all that was going on with this archival material, which is a cultural genocide. In the National Assembly, we have also heard numerous speeches about crimes against humanity. The president of the National Assembly spoke of Armenian genocide, I think of our initiative, then of the Holocaust, he spoke when it was the anniversary of Srebrenica. The National Assembly then addressed the SDS initiative on 23 August, on the day of the victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we expect the President of the National Assembly to also mark the post-war plague on Slovenian soil, which resulted in more than 600 hidden mass seas. To take a few sentences of what is the essence of the resolution. The resolution states that if Europe wants to be united, it must be able to create a unified view of its history that EU Member States must engage in an in-depth debate on the crimes of both Nazism and fascism and communism, as this is our common heritage. The European Parliament's resolution, which is not supported by the parties to the coalition, the United Left and unrelated Members, builds on common European values such as respect for human dignity, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for the rule of law. It builds on a common fight against totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. It builds on the preservation of the memory of the past, for without truth and memory there can be no reconciliation or better reconciliation. It builds on a clear conviction of all crimes against humanity and mass violations of human rights committed on behalf of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. He says that it is necessary to honor the victims, condemn the perpetrators, and lay the foundations for reconciliation based on truth, righteousness, and memories. By reaffirming the resolution and supporting its content, we would show that we respect European values, that we support a common fight against totalitarianism, that we respect the victims and that we sympathize with their relatives, who are still seeking the right to put an end to the horrors. We will continue to invest in the National Assembly in the resolution of the European Parliament until it is adopted. This is one of the key substantive themes of the country's better present and future. We discussed the European Parliament's resolution in the Slovenian Democratic Party four months ago and in 2009 also on the Committee on Justice and on the Commission on Fifths and on human rights and equal opportunities. Even today, our views are clear and supported by arguments. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also aware of the seriousness of the situation in which the country is facing a migration crisis. That is why we will continue to give up further discussion, but we expect the coalition to spend this time looking for concrete solutions to the migration crisis and that you will be able to conclude at this time that it is also good to support any proposal and action coming from our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! For the third time today, we are talking about supporting the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which we discussed in detail in the National Assembly six years ago. More specifically, on 22 October 2009, the National Assembly has already adopted a declaration of familiarity with the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Therefore, we do not see any reason for us to decide on the resolution again. But as we all know, we had another extensive debate at this July session three months ago, which is why it is not clear to us in the Desus Group why we need to talk about this again. The applicant submitted a practically identical text, only the title of the act has changed. We had a resolution on July on the table to support the resolution, but today we are talking about a declaration of support for the resolution. Everything else is the same, it's not serious, and we're going to spend the bad five hours again for an infertile ideological debate that's not going anywhere. As we believe a few months ago today, there are no new circumstances that would require us to change our decision, since the decision of the National Assembly at that time was legitimate and well thought out. We have therefore rejected the proposal for a declaration already at a meeting of the parent working body, where we have explicitly stressed that the resolution of the European Parliament also refers to the fact that no political party or body has the exclusive right to explain history. As already said in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we have been familiar with the resolution since 2009 and respect it. However, we do not want to participate in unnecessary ideological debates, which we will certainly witness in the coming hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a declaration of support to the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism has in fact been addressed in the National Assembly since 2009 and we note that the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism is not legally binding. This document can be seen as a recommendation on how countries should face the past, which is tantamount to developments during that period. To this end, in 2009, when the Parliament took note of this resolution, it also adopted a declaration of familiarity. Social Democrats do not see the reasons why we have, for the third time in fact, been familiar with something we have seen, heard and also adopted an appropriate declaration. This question is particularly raised in the light of the fact that in this reference we have adopted the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, where the first article of this Act also contains the European Parliament Resolution of 2nd. 4. 2009 But here we must remember that today's panellist did not vote in favour of this law, which includes the European Parliament Resolution. So it is doubtful whether they really believe what they are reading to others that they are not supported, whether they are merely trying to reopen the debate on one and the same topic. At the same time, when it is an integral part of a law, they are actually opposed to it. A very unconstant approach. That is why we do not really see the great added value of this adoption or consideration of this item on the agenda. However, I would like to summarise part of the declaration adopted by the National Assembly in 2009, and I quote: "The National Assembly, in its introduction to the Resolution, expresses its respect for all victims of totalitarian regimes, while stressing that in its operation after 1990 the Republic of Slovenia has already done much to correct the injustices committed to citizens and citizens of Slovenia between 1945 and 1990. In particular, by adopting regulations that have allowed the correction of the wrongs to political prisoners, the conviction of post-war beatings, the detection and regulation of hidden graves, unlawfully murdered persons, the return after the war of unjustly confiscated property and many other acts. In doing so, she points out that it was easier to do so because its transition to a democratic, political system of parliamentary democracy was established by the majority will of citizens and citizens on the legal path and without the necessity of violent change, which was possible, because even within the single party system there has been a gradual post-war period, and especially in the 1980s and 1990s democratic changes that have made this possible." Here I conclude a quote of the text, which is written in a declaration already adopted by Parliament in 2009. However, the fact that we want to talk about the consequences of totalitarian regimes 70 years ago should be highlighted, however, is much more important and operational if we start to ask and discuss totalitarian regimes, which in fact apply at this moment and which Slovenia is also facing. In fact, it is a new totalitarian regime — neoliberalism that has already hurt Slovenia when it imposed public debt on it in order to sell state property and decommission the state and thereby our national pride. Slovenia is experiencing this intensely on its own path and in the last period, especially when we have to resolve the so-called public debt. We have saved banks, invested funds in the banking system, but at the same time we find that the assessment of the funds needed to do so is far beyond what was real. That is why we can talk about the imposed totalitarian regime that wants to drain Slovenia economically. However, it should be noted that one important chapter or area has been omitted in these periods when we discuss the consequences of totalitarian regimes. The point is that since its independence the Republic of Slovenia has not yet submitted a request to Germany for damage and grief suffered by the Slovenians and Slovenians who were victims of the totalitarian regime at the time. To this day, no compensation has been recovered from the exiles. They have been fighting for these rights since independence and have never received much support in the National Assembly in order to achieve this. This is a topic that we have not yet completed in Slovenia with the consequences of the totalitarian regime, and this is what we should talk about if we want to be really concrete and, above all, defend the interests of our people. Therefore, it would be appropriate to provide for our people and to demand compensation for the end of the woes of the exiles. If I mention the number, which is also very clearly defined in the expulsion material, it is at least $3 billion that Germany should return to Slovenia for causing the totalitarian regime to our people. To this end, the signing of a peace agreement with Germany is a truly open issue and within the agreement we should also implement reparation and recovery of war damage. We have not yet finished the debate on this in Slovenia. And that is what it would certainly be necessary to take a step further from what the proposer actually wants to talk about in Parliament today. Let me go back to today's consequences of the new totalitarian regime that I mentioned earlier. It's neoliberalism. At this moment, we are witnessing a new, in fact very difficult situation in which Europe and Slovenia are in a position to do so. This is a literal flood between Slovenia and Europe by migrants fleeing areas of neo-liberal greed for power, which is mainly reflected in the desire to acquire oil resources and thus control the world. The purpose of this neo-liberal regime is to erase the European regime, erase the borders of countries and turn us into beings without civil rights. It is totalitarianism that we should discuss in the Slovenian Parliament and draw attention to these devastating consequences that can happen in Slovenia and Europe. Let me say that we have certainly skipped all these topics in this paper in Slovenia, and we have already dealt with a number of laws, but in particular I think we must be realistic enough, and also proud of ourselves, that we have skipped all of this right now when we set up our country. And it's right that we have our own country to try to take care of our own people. Therefore, I think it is essential that we try to implement the above-mentioned reparation rather than to have a discussion with each other, which in fact does not bring any concrete solution to improve the situation of Slovenia or the well-being of our people. We therefore believe that the proposal for a declaration of support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism for consideration in the Slovenian Parliament is in fact unnecessary, because we have already skipped all of this to a large extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u86	The text is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her, Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u87	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your input. We are again considering the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism and again on the proposal of the SDS. Although there is no rapporteur sitting here, I will say our position, although they are obviously not interested. In our view, this is nothing more than the pollution of public discourse, once again the exhaustion of Parliament, Members and taxpayers' money. For the second time in this mandate, and together for the third time, we have been dealing with the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which is one of the many documents that the conservative forces in control of European institutions want to impose a specific model for the interpretation of modern European and global history. In the SDS party, we are forced to debate our history and the three so-called totalitarianisms of the 20th century, which is about Nazism, fascism and communism, but of course it is just and of course only about demonizing the last. In the United Left, we do not signify totalitarianism, not for former communist or fascist regimes. Not because they might not acknowledge the severe suffering of people who have been affected by fascism or regimes that have tried to build socialism, but because it really gives an idealized image of Western parliamentary democracy or Euro-Atlantic integration. The sign of totalitarianism became highly popular in the first two decades after World War II, particularly among American ideologists who compared the darkest examples of communist and fascist practices with the ideals of Western parliamentary democracy for the purposes of propaganda war. It was a measure of the abstract ideal of individual freedom, which has the highest place among the political values in the West, which they wanted to compare with the often cruel reality in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. This comparison, of course, is not fair. Let us ask ourselves, whose interests required millions of people to die in World War I, why hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese and Vietnamese had to die, why, at the end of World War II, there were hundreds of thousands of people killed in the Anglo-American attacks in Dresden and using nuclear weapons in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This was not of particular interest to Western ideologists of the Cold War. Serious historical and political research has therefore rejected the mark of totalitarianism as the ideological coatings of the Cold War. The mark of totalitarianism must be rejected even more decisively today. The ideals of human rights, respect for human life and dignity, which are sworn by the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, are striking the misery of everyday life on the European periphery every day. The talk of human rights and humanity at the moment disintegrates as an empty flute when a troika with a financial terror kneed the entire Greek people and forced them to sign new treaties on inhumane belt tightening. The talk of human rights and humanity at the moment disintegrates as an empty lump in the face of poverty, misery and unemployment, which has been suppressed by the working people of all the nations of Europe. At the moment, hundreds of thousands of refugees in the territory of the European Union had to leave their homes because of Western military intervention, in which Slovenia had indirectly participated. At the borders of Europe's fortress, they suffer in situations no man should have experienced. In Europe, camps are growing where refugees are divided. However, colleagues and colleagues, the proposaler does not call this totalitarianism. They say we close the borders. They demand more repression and, last but not least, you have all joined in supporting a law that gives the military much too many powers that should not be given in civil society. In the United Left, we reject the empty and swollen historical generalizations with which the right hand wants to throw both fascism and communism into the same basket. We certainly do not agree to compare the number of victims of communist regimes with fascist regimes, as it would be very easy to include the victims of exemplary European democracies. Human lives, respected, are not statistics. We cannot agree to put the violent loss of human lives into numbers and use them as an argument in a grave generalisation that has a very clear political agenda. At the same time, we do not agree to the same general logic regarding the various historically existing communist regimes. In many respects, Yugoslav self-government socialism was totally incompatible with the Soviet or other types of communist regimes and represented a much more positive and human attempt to build a different socialist society. Efforts towards a different society, socialism has further acquired from the Paris community general electoral rights, social services and most of the civilisational achievements that should be appreciated today but consistently eliminated by neoliberal doctrine. Emancipatory socialist projects have opened the prospect of expanding democracy to all areas of human life. Also where unforgivable job dyspotism prevails in exemplary democracies. In the United Left, we consider that the re-imposed debate on the resolution on European consciousness is totally unnecessary both in terms of content and formality. Already in the Government's opinion, we can read that supporting the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism would mean historical revisionism to try to reinterpret, change and fabricate our common history. We should not allow this to happen, but with disappointment we can find that it is happening slowly, but quietly, persistently. As an interesting point, we must also say that the condemnation of communism is most important to some former communists who, after independence, have suddenly changed into the biggest opponents of the regime they have served so faithfully before. There is also totalitarianism, the denial of human rights and the violation of civilisation standards for all people who have gathered precisely those movements that you want to blacken and overwhelm all the time. To be honest and honest, we should discuss why today the European Union is the one best suited to the 'totalitarian' adjective. Colleagues and colleagues! What happened 70 years ago is beyond our control. But we can have another impact on what is happening to us today and what is going to happen to us tomorrow and in the future. This is our task and the responsibility we have received from the citizens. That is why we find this debate completely inappropriate and unworthy at this point in time, so that we Members of the United Left will not take part in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u88	We have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a declaration. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much, President. Today, at the very beginning of the session, you really gave a very clear signal and a message. With the National Assembly's tribute to the memory of all victims of war and post-war violence, I was hoping that the proponents would understand your message. I'm afraid they didn't. They are not, however, primarily for a number of reasons. I have participated at least 20 times in such discussions in committee and plenary since I am a Member. It has always been the same conclusion; it should simply continue to be continued in the division of the Slovenian people. The fact that today some Members, not some, do not even want to debate any more is also a kind of message of what they really believe about such debates. We have come to a point where it is also really necessary to tell the proposers of such points simply and to set them a mirror. When Janez Janša became Prime Minister for the first time, he said in his famous statement that, as of course, the President of the Government notes that dealing with the past means simply collecting energy for the development of Slovenia. I quote, "...this Slovenia is collecting the energy it needs to face the challenges of the future effectively, those who are warming up such debates are doing harm to Slovenia's future." That is exactly what he is doing with his client and his group today: he is going to go to bed so that, in fact, I will say very gravely on the victims of war and post-war violence to gain political points. I'm sorry, thank God, I hope most people have realized that this isn't going anywhere. Why am I answering? I answer simply because every time you come back, every time you do, I will remind you that you are actually doing what you do not really want to do in your fundamental spirit. Ask yourself, for whom and why you are working, you are separating society to the extent that instead of dealing with your cultural, economic and economic development, you are pushing it back into the 20th century. And we all know that mistakes can't be corrected. So you can just confess and bow and swear that you'll never do it again. If you will at least listen once and in this term stop proposing such points, then I will understand that you are still in the process of development and progress, because no Slovenian and Slovenian are really interested in such a topic anymore. They are interested in where they will have a job, how their children will develop and whether Slovenia will be able to be one of those countries that will have a successful development and will also be able to boast to its descendants that it will provide good and healthy foundations for the future. If anything's gonna help, I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u90	Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will quote literally in the opening paragraph of the Resolution of the European Parliament, which says: "Because no political body or political party has the exclusive right to explain history and because these authorities and parties cannot claim to be objective." I said that last time, but it doesn't look like it's working. This means that everything that follows this point is not what this point is talking about. Of course not. It is therefore not a matter of giving an exclusive right to explain history to a political body or political party. Many interpretations that object to the adoption of the European Parliament Resolution state exactly this. What does that mean? That it's a hoax. In fact, it is that others are accused of what they are doing. I'm not quoting Hannah Arendt, about whom she said it was one of the characteristics of a totalitarian arrangement. This is widely used in public discourse in Slovenia. This sample is still being used. That's one thing. And the other thing is with the archives. The relevant part of the archives has been destroyed. He's not here. It's hidden or destroyed somewhere. He's not here. No amendment to the Archives Act can remedy the consequences of this fact. We and, above all, in the Western Balkans have an entire army of former agents operating freely without any supervision. Their involvement in society, politics, the economy is completely out of control. Why am I talking about this? Because it is people who have been specially trained to act manipulatively and to act in favour of the regime against their own citizens. Who has the knowledge? Who has these skills and powers now? We have a commission to oversee secret services. But the present. There's no talking about past agents. And this is an eminent security problem that concerns many societies, especially in this space, and we are obviously part of it. We didn't even protect them with any kind of marriage, because they're scared, like. They're not. But they don't have to. What I'm trying to say is that this question is completely out of order. Their operation, however, is, as I would say, a half subject of treatment at Interpol, Europol, etc. These links between this agency and organised crime are known, and everything else can work in politics, in justice, in governments, in banks. Because the banks that worked abroad know who they were run from and where that money went then. Not to mention casinos, prostitution and arms trafficking, as well as drugs, because they also financed themselves with these activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u92	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. The government's representative gave up her word. Would you like a representative of the proposer? No, no, no. Does anyone else want to discuss it because time hasn't run out yet? Nobody. Then I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a declaration. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a declaration has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u93	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on the issue of the operation of the Banking Claims Management Company, d. d., in conjunction with the companies and companies whose bank claims have been transferred to the Bank Management Company, d. d. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to a proposal for a recommendation. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you. We have proposed three additional points to the recommendation. The first is to request the resignation of the entire Administrative Committee, not only of the two appointed ones, and additionally to propose to the Commission to prevent corruption an examination or inspection concerning the appointment of Imr Balogh and Janez Škrube. According to the Court of Auditors reports and recent media reports, it was evident that the Management Board of the Bank Management Company did not comply with the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, DUTB forces well-standing companies that regularly meet their financial obligations to creditors into bankruptcy or sell claims to these companies on international markets. The DUTB also does not contribute to the financial and business restructuring of companies and thus has a negative impact on the recovery of the economy. We can also understand from the Court of Auditors' report and the media reports that the past business of DUTB has been insufficient and too often at the border of the legitimate. The responsibility for everything listed in the United Left is, of course, attributed to the entire Management Board. This amendment therefore proposes in particular that the entire Management Board be dissolved. However, as regards the other two paragraphs of these recommendations, they are both linked to the conflict of interest that currently exists. It is said that the current Executive Director of DUB Imre Baloh was, at the same time as he was appointed, also the President of the Probanka administration. So it's at this point of conflict of interest. However, at the time of his appointment or prior to his appointment, John Škrube worked as a lobbyist for Deloitte and, of course, advised and lobbyed for the sale of T-2 to the Austrian Telecom. That's enough clues that these two people can't be at the head of this company. For this reason, we also propose that the Anti-Corruption Commission, of course, verify the consistency of these appointments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u95	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We therefore vote on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was nine, and the vote was fifty-six. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. She voted 21 and 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the recommendation is not accepted. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 20th periodic report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors The Joint Left for a new Chapter 2.1 – Constitutional Rights. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 9 and 38. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors The Joint Left for a new Chapter 2.4 – Justice. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was nine, and the vote was forty-five. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left for a new Chapter 2.6 – Administrative matters. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. The vote was 8 and 45. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left for a new Chapter 2.10 – Working relations. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote was 8 and 44. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation to the 20th Regular Report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 69 and against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audiovisual Media Services Act after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no further amendments to the amended bill have been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break 25. The agenda item is the draft resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men 2015-2020. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Public Procurement Act under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Wednesday, 21. Ten. In 2015, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly, the proposal of the law would be inconsistent. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The biggest problems we have in the field of public procurement are certainly related to the lack of transparency, the suspicion of corruption and the fact that for large projects almost always there remain unpaid subcontractors and unpaid workers and, on the other hand, a series of annexes that sometimes increase the value of the project by 200%. Of course, the ones responsible for this country can never, or will not, seek out. That this is a very important area also speaks of the amount of funds spent on it at the annual level, which is €3.7 billion per year. Let us stress that this is just one of the second lines of funding at the annual level. How much is the state paying for individual services and how much money intransparency flows into private pockets, we cannot know, but the number appearing in the public is around one billion. Although the coalition did not support any of the amendments proposed by the opposition parties, we will be abstaining in the United Left in the vote. Despite all the positive developments that the Directives make as a proposal for a law, the proposal for a law can be worded all too often. This can also take into account quality, cost-effectiveness, environmental and social aspects, etc. The law is also flawed in terms of transparency. We have the biggest difficulty in ordering small amounts, although small amounts are almost two-thirds of all public contracts. Instead of determining that contracting entities should publish at least basic data in relation to these smaller orders, it is also stated here that these data can be published, which means that we have a law before us that can be abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u97	The explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group shall be mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! I would not like to discuss this subject in any way, because I believe, as the transitional has said, that there has been a lot of talk on the part of the home work body and at the second regular session. I'd touch why this law matters. First of all, this law brings together two directives, since we have so far had the classic procurement of goods and services as well as the procurements that apply to infrastructure contracting authorities. It means we're united into one marriage. Another important issue is that these two directives are incorporated into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia before the deadline set by the EU. The deadline was April of the following year, it is said that we had installed this matrimony a long time earlier, which is an important force. In this time until the implementation in the practice of this Directive is sufficient time for all contracting authorities to prepare in due time for these procedures to go in the direction we want not only as legislators. The next issue, which is important, is that procurement procedures under this law are based primarily on the principles arising from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the principles of free movement of goods. To the conclusion. We believe that the important objectives of this law are: greater flexibility and simplification of procurement procedures; what is crucial to us is greater involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises in these processes, and not least prevention of corruption and transparency in decision-making. On the basis of the above, the SMC Group is of the view that the proposal for a public procurement law is appropriate for adoption and we will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u99	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u100	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law is basically good. It brings some good solutions. However, the problem is that at the same time the possibility of direct payment of subcontractors is being abolished by law. The legislation has changed in 2012 and 2011 and since then it has been possible for the contracting authority to pay the subcontractor directly. Under this new legislation, this will be possible, but very difficult. And it appears that this cash flow of the contracting entity-contractor-sub-contractor will come again. The common denominator of this equation is that there will again be unpaid subcontractors, as we can see in the construction of the suburban highway or fast road, in the construction of the opera house, and so on. Those small craftsmen, to whom the law brings some positive things to a certain extent, will be those who will not receive these financial resources for the services provided, for the work done, and will again come to these anomalies when they are healthy, good domestic companies, the craftsmen will be prepared for bankruptcy, because otherwise they will have no other option. There will continue to be family tragedies and a whole chain of outstanding obligations and debts to the country. This is why several groups of Members have proposed an amendment to this Article. Unfortunately, this amendment was not supported by the ruling coalition. However, since this proposal has not been adopted and has long-term negative consequences, we will abstain from this bill in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-27-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u101	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on rail transport in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Wednesday, 21. Ten. In 2015, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 2. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
