ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Mursich, mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Xenia Root Kramar, mag. Mr. Matjaž Han, Mr. Matjaž Germany, Mr. Uroš Prikl by 3 p.m., Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker, Dr. Franc Trček, Matjaž Hanžek, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Marjan Dolinšek from 16:00 on and Mr Igor Zorčič from 15:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 April 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the point from the sitting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following an agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 17 April 2015, I propose that the agenda of the 7th meeting be extended by 2nd a.m. by means of a proposal for a law amending the Law on Foreign Affairs following an urgent procedure. You received an extension proposal on Friday, 17. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the He wants a word from a government representative as a motion for a case? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. So we can move on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In accordance with the meeting's timing, the National Assembly will consider this item on Friday, 24. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference, and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 7th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 45 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by the members and members of the opposition and the question put by the ruling coalition Member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Mag. Mr Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and as Minister of Defence, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, and Dr Dušan Maramor, Minister of Finance. Mag. Goran Klemenčič and Mr Karl Erjavec, who apologized, will nevertheless attend the meeting and answer the questions. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. The first question will be asked by Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial team, distinguished Prime Minister! I will start with the quote: "State ownership is property belonging to the people or citizens, not to the government, political parties or interest groups. The state through the government is only its representative or agent, so the government has no discretion over state property, but it bears custody responsibility." Let me surprise you, this is not a quote from the United Left programme, but from the OECD guidelines for the management of state-owned companies. At the same time, these are the principles under which in the United Left we proposed amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which the Government overcame last week without serious consideration and without serious arguments. If I can get it back up for a while, what was it? First. Our novelty would introduce state-owned management to ensure that employees in state-owned enterprises have the right to co-management in the Slovenian State Holding Company, which is owned by the Constitution and the law. Another time. Following the example of Austria and France, any greater privatisation from now on should be decided separately by the National Assembly. The remuneration policy in SDH would be limited by the provisions of the so-called Lachovnik Act. This proposal is not radical, based on examples from abroad and, last but not least, on the OECD guidelines to which the Government likes to refer. We wanted to offer a compromise. This privatisation proposal would not stop, but would make a significant contribution to its thinking, strategic and ownership of state property, which, Mr Prime Minister, is not the least of your key pre-election promises. When we introduced the law in the State Council last week, they understood that. The Labour Party and part of the local communities supported it, the capital side, while the employer side voted against it, but with a clear reservation that they are absolutely prepared to support that part of the law that speaks of the mandatory consent of the National Assembly in the sale of larger investments. That's why I'm interested in your position, Mr. Prime Minister. Why were you not prepared to support this proposal if it was obviously largely acceptable even for the capital side? Why do you not want to apply good practices in Slovenia from Austria, Germany and France? Why are you so afraid of co-decision of employees, but if this is a constitutional right in Slovenia? What is the problem that you do not want to adopt provisions so that any greater privatisation should be given the consent of the National Assembly, if this is a consistent practice in the countries by which you like to imitate yourself? Please do not answer that this is because you are preparing a strategy, because in these countries they have exactly the kind of strategies that you are preparing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u3	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u4	Dear Member, first of all with regard to the initial quote you mentioned. You cited this quote as a justification for your proposal also before the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and let me say that it is not a question of whether I agree with this quote or not, but it is a matter of misleading this quote and using the OECD Institute and their guidelines, because the guidelines do not contain this quote, but it is only a part of the introduction or foreword to the Slovenian translation of the guidelines written by the professor, who is also a signatory to the Petition against Privatisation, Dr. Andrej Rus. There is also a slightly adjusted quote, stating, among other things, that state property is not only government property, but also political parties or interest groups. So much for that. However, with regard to the proposal to amend the law, let me explain that the Government has given a reasoned written opinion on this issue, which has otherwise been rejected by all proposals, which does not mean that the Government is not in favour of any changes to the law if it leads to an improvement in corporate governance of state-owned companies. The fact is that in Slovenia we are completely overly changing the concepts of governance of state-owned companies, so that we do not have any tradition and continuity and even an undeveloped political culture in this area, so it is very difficult to compare ourselves with the countries mentioned. The Republic of Slovenia does not have an exemplary history of governance, such as those of Austria, Germany, France, which are also founding members of the OECD. Slovenia did not join this organisation until 2010 and it has not yet implemented the corporate governance practices of state-owned companies developed and followed by the founding members for 40 years. Slovenia has already had four different capital investment management systems in this prestigious organisation in five years, which I can explain below, but this indicates some total discontinuity and inability to reach one, I would say, stable governance. And that's what this government is working towards right now. This situation has also been recognised by the OECD, which, despite the confirmation of membership in order to regulate the corporate governance system of state-owned companies, has made five concrete recommendations to improve this governance system. I am pleased to tell you that Slovenia has also achieved the level of corporate governance that has met the OECD criteria through the law we have adopted and its implementation in the last year. To this end, we are now missing only the adoption of the capital investment management strategy of a country for which you do not want me to mention it. This is why our primary objective now is to fully implement the governance strategy and not adopt any changes to the law until then, because this would once again cause a discontinuous disruption to the system that we have finally established to this extent, so that it can slowly also be done with the help of this government and, as a result, the National Assembly becomes a stable factor in the enforcement of corporate governance and the proper treatment of state property. The implementation and strength of the prescribed system is also so important because the European Commission and the OECD consider it to be very good. It is said that this is not only our opinion, but also the opinion of these two important bodies. Only such continuity will allow us to think about proposals for possible changes to the law, for which this government will also in justified cases. The amendment of the law during these two key processes, i.e. the appointment of SDH members and the strategy we are adopting, would certainly be unrealistic and irresponsible and also detrimental to Slovenia. This has clearly been recognised by both coalition and opposition parties, since their members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have all voted against your proposal to amend the law. The vote was 17 against and 1 against, and the same was true in the Council of State, which did not support your proposal. Let me get this over with. You are referring to Article 75 of the Constitution. It is true that there is a right of workers to co-manage, but in the manner and under the conditions laid down in the law and not in the constitution as such. So we have to get married here. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] These rights. With regard to the privatisation of Telekom, let me just mention that the employees have so far been involved in the sales process in the sense that they had the opportunity to clarify their views at several meetings [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u5	In order to complete the answer or to make a request to complete the reply, Luka Mesec shall have the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much. First of all, with regard to the quote you've been challenging, I'm going to repeat his first part. "State ownership is property belonging to the people or citizens, not to the government, political parties and interest groups." I don't understand now, Prime Minister, what you want to say by challenging this quote. That, in your opinion, state property does not belong to citizens, but to the government, political parties and stakeholders, if that is what I now understand. Here I would like to ask you to explain exactly what is wrong with this quotation or which part of this quotation you disagree with. When you talk about the discontinuity and efforts of your government in privatisation procedures, I would answer the following. Indeed, this government has so far been implementing one of the most extensive privatisations. We're talking about sales of the Laško Brewery, Adria Airways, Radenske, Telekom, Cincarna Celje and so on. These privatisations do not take place transparently, democratically, responsibly, strategically, as you promised before the elections, but they do so overnight and away from the public's eyes. Our amendment to the law that we have proposed would make things really transparent, responsible and democratic. As I pointed out earlier, in the novel we have transferred best practices from European countries to the Slovenian legal order, so I am interested if you can answer me, even with yes or no, at least for this part. Would you be willing, given that the entire State Council has been prepared to support a provision on the mandatory consent of the National Assembly to privatise more than €50 million, to support at least this part of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u7	The answer is complemented by the President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u8	Dear Member! If you say that it is important for you to quote that state property belongs to the people, then of course you return to the time of the so-called social or some new category of human property. I would warn you that we have actually processed this over a decade, two years, and found that we are moving away from the arrangements that were in the previous system for understandable reasons, and we have moved into normal categorizations of property that are known by all the arrangements in the world, not to the ones you want to go back to, but unfortunately, in spite of good intentions, it was dysfunctional. As far as transparency of privatisation procedures is concerned. The fact that the most extensive privatisation is being conducted so far is the decision of this national assembly from the previous term, and I am as committed as you are to respect it. As for whether they were transparent or not, I don't think you're right. I think they've been following procedures as planned. However, if you have legitimate reasons to say otherwise, you have all the legal and other means available to prove it. You obviously haven't used them yet, and I doubt that, given what you're saying, they'll be successful, because on a flat-rate basis, you're assessing every privatisation as bad, untransparent. It just doesn't hold. As for the question of whether the National Assembly should finally decide on any major or more important privatisation, I am open to this question. This seems a democratically legitimate question to me. Last but not least, we know that the governance strategy will be adopted in the National Assembly, and that is why it is now in public debate. The government has drawn up a draft, put it into public debate, professionally substantiated it, and I have everyone: you, me and the rest of us are able to make these proposals. If the honourable National Assembly assesses that such competence is necessary, it will simply include it in the strategy. This is a matter of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u9	The port of Mesec shall have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Given that the President of the Government obviously believes that state property does not belong to citizens, but to the government, political parties and stakeholders, I propose that we hold a serious debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u11	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April 2015, in the framework of the votes. The second president of the government is asked by Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u12	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! For many years, the Slovenian healthcare system has not worked effectively, as patients feel most. Our health system is good and effective for an individual until a person is healthy. But when he gets sick, trouble starts. Some data: long waiting periods, I also stress for operations, long waiting periods, non-transparent operations, financial losses of hospitals, non-transparent functioning of the Health Insurance Institute, spatial distress, overpayments of medicines, corruption and clienteleism, health lobby, etc., all of this is unfortunately part of our health system. There is also a greater call in the healthcare sector when there is no criminal investigation or suspicion of corruption following the call. And I also stress that the health system in which we need to collect bottle stoppers for our children's operations or for our children's treatment, or even for parents to organise charity events, actions to raise funds for treatment, we rightly claim that such a health system is not worth it. At the same time, of course, it is worth noting that we place taxpayers in our health treasury with considerable sums of money. When paying around 1,000 euros a net salary has already been paid, the employer has already collected about 100 euros from the gross salary for basic health insurance, which is a large number. In addition, I should mention additional insurance if an individual wishes to be fully insured. Thus, according to the individual’s contribution, the taxpayer does not receive quality services when he is sick. Dear Prime Minister, in order to eliminate all these anomalies that I have listed, we urgently need a health reform, which should also be one of the priorities of your government. We note that simply correcting existing legislation, individual laws and so on, is out of the question, as the problem of the system is very large. However, according to the activities of the Ministry of Health and the Minister himself in Nova Slovenija, we are concerned and rightly assess that the current way of working on health reform can also be delayed beyond the limits of your mandate. It also points out that the process of adopting health reform is taking place too slowly. That's why I'm asking you, Mr President-respected: When will health reform be presented? What's the timer? On what will health reform be based? Is there any draft health reform yet? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u13	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear Member! You have brought down a number of weaknesses, weaknesses and inefficiency in the health system. We agree on that. They have dragged and drawn to us through a number of years with many exchanges of ministers, so I would like to say that it is also perfectly clear to layman – and I hope to every citizen that there can be no reform of such a heavily imported system, forgive the expression such as our health system, and we have quite a few other things in society that have been done in just half a year or one year. But it is true, and we are working hard on this, that the first fundamental steps must be taken immediately, tomorrow, and then an immediate upgrade to this reform. The reform consists of short-term measures and changes already under way, I must stress this, and the long-term objectives that we will begin to achieve. For all of this we need a thorough analysis of the health system, because in recent years we have been faced with a simple leap from problem to problem without vision and fires have been put out. And these partial approaches did not solve the key problems. Therefore, this analysis, which is being prepared and will soon be done and for which the World Health Organisation experts are also involved, will show the finality of what, in cooperation with our expertise, experience and practice, gives a clear vision of what reform must be like. Changes will focus on increasing the efficiency of the health system, better outcomes should be ensured by equal means in the faster introduction of new technologies and treatment methods, better quality indicators and longer-term other health indicators, i.e. longer lifespan, longer healthy years of life, lower disease due to chronic diseases. The draft reform based on this thorough analysis, which is already deep in preparation and will soon be made, is not just one document, it is not one formal document with the title of reform, but is a set of rules and other documents and the consequences are different practices that will have to lead to change. The blood document will be a resolution on the national healthcare plan 2016-2025, the draft of which is in the final stage of preparation, sent to the public at the end of May and will be a framework for further changes. Health reform will continue with the preparation of a key law, which is a coalition commitment, and this is the Health and Health Insurance Act. As already follows from the Coalition Agreement, for the 2014-2018 term, a key amendment to this Act is the transformation of the supplementary health insurance system and the legal regulation of compulsory health insurance rights and obligations, with the proposal of this Act, which you know to be an extremely demanding project which has not been implemented by many ministers in previous years, expected to be adopted in the first half of 2016 or at the beginning of this year. At the Ministry of Health, a resolution on the national programme on nutrition and physical activity for health for the period 2015-2025 is finalising. The main objectives are to stop the trend of increasing obesity and chronic diseases, such as diabetes, and the unhealthy way of eating and lack of physical activity, it is said to be a preventive part of the health system that we so badly need in order to develop appropriate practices. This resolution will also be forwarded in May for adoption by the National Assembly. Part of the reform is also a number of other changes, to mention only eHealth project and e-reception solution, e-ordering, TeleKap and so on. This is about a lot of changes. In addition, the Ministry, as you know, also implements certain human resources supplements. It set up a health council that didn't work, and so on. In addition, the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, has already started one important part of these structural changes, namely by centralising and informing the common public procurement in public health, with the aim of, of course, introducing transparency over the supply of the Slovenian drug market. After the first call for medicines based on this, but not all hospitals were included here, savings range between €7 million and €9 million. Let me also talk about the importance of reforming health care, putting key actors in the right place, and this also means that the director of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance must be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u15	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u16	Dear Prime Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I heard a similar response Thursday by the Minister of Health on the committee responsible when we discussed the National Reform Programme. I want to tell you one fact that the fundamental steps for health reform are already made and all strategies, analyses and so on are a complete waste of time, because that is all in the drawers. This has already been discussed by former health ministers here in the National Assembly, they have already prepared a thorough strategy and the problem has been the political will, the political will of the governments themselves in the past. And again, the lobbies were the ones that prevented health reform from being adopted in the past. This is why, above all, it is up to you, as Prime Minister of the Government, to decide whether the Minister will be able to give together a package of laws and submit it to the National Assembly. If you are not as a moral authority, as the authority of the President of the Government specifically behind decisions, then there will be no health reform. But I have another supplementary question: Or are you doing any analysis? In fact, you mentioned the changes in the supplementary insurance and the compulsory insurance, so if we follow the coalition contract, a so-called supplementary insurance fee will be introduced. Is that still true? So instead of supplementary insurance, it's going to be called a tax. And secondly: What is your opinion on the introduction of competition in the field of compulsory health insurance? We are one of the few countries in the European Union where a compulsory health insurance service provider is a state insurance company, we have no competition in this area. You know that the arrival of competition in compulsory health insurance would mean lowering the prices of services, but also improving services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u17	The answer is complemented by the President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u18	Your conclusion that everything in the drawers is ready, that all the strategies, all the laws here, may be correct, but let me doubt that these strategies, laws, changes are really the best, because then they were not established. And allow me to question the well-intention of many who have participated in this, because I wonder how, in all this, there is no reform, but we are falling. The problems are getting worse, the ministers have given up, said they are no part of corruption, they are no part of health care and the like. I can no longer accept the argument that everything is ready there, just waiting for some magic wand. We need to do the right analysis. And it's done and it'll be done very quickly. At the same time, all the acts that I have mentioned are being prepared, we are not stopping anywhere, but we are faced with many practices, which are either at the border of corruption, at the border of legality, as you know we must deal with them. The minister has a very difficult job, and believe me, I support her and I stand behind her. Let me also say that, in fact, for the key implementation of health reform, when I first started to tell stories, it is crucial that the right people are in the right places. For example, in Slovenia, the only provider and institution of compulsory health insurance is the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, with the example of current practice – the appointment of the Director-General shows that some stakeholders in the management bodies of the ZZZS minister and thus the Government does not allow the selection of the appropriate candidate, who would then, in terms of this important and financially, help to prepare and participate in the draft health reform. There was no mandatory agreement within the framework of the National Assembly in the procedure for appointing the Director-General in the case of Mr Fakin in the previous week, and the naming process will therefore have to be repeated. And here, in fact, all stakeholders, and also at the end of the National Assembly, can show that they want change, not that they want to go back to some stories that have been four, eight or eight years of no effect. Everyone wants changes, you say to a minister or someone, but you don't help and help all those stakeholders in the management bodies of the ZZ and in the assembly to bring about reform because they have a fig in their pocket. That's not how it works. And so absolutely, believe me, the government will do and the Minister will do whatever it takes, but you must also understand that we are expecting some participation of stakeholders, some constructive cooperation, because one or two people in this country cannot do health reform on their own. And I guarantee you, the government will continue to support these processes and in the end we will succeed, just please also the National Assembly to simply look at what is done, and this encourages as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u19	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u20	That's right. Dear Prime Minister, I thank you for your answer. For example, Barack Obama was elected in 2009 and one of the first real promises he later made was health reform. And then he said, "Even at the cost of not being elected president of the United States of America next time, we're going to make a health reform." All I'm saying is that the problem in the past was in the political will itself. And if on your side and with other parties your government coalition will have enough political will, then health reform will be adopted. In Novi Slovenija, you are also happy to be helped in the light of your answers. I'd love to. I tell you that New Slovenia will help you in such a way that we will prepare a draft health reform, very briefly, and I believe that we will coordinate, look at and finally adopt together and then go to drafting the bills themselves. On the basis of what has already been done in the past, we have good suggestions and will put them on the table, face opinions. This is the most we can do for our taxpayers, who pay huge sums of money to the health treasury, and it is right that they also have an effective and good health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u21	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April 2015, in the framework of the votes. The third question will be asked by the Prime Minister of the Government. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you. "Slovenia has been a success story again lately." These are the words of Minister Marble on a visit to the United States. I'm meeting them. Slovenia has proved to everyone, and in particular to itself that it can and can, without foreign assistance, return to the right path, the path of growth and, in the long run, the path of prosperity for all people. It does not matter who is responsible for the success of Slovenia, but it is important that we realize that two key years are ahead of us, that this growth will also be stable and lasting. Two key years before the government and the coalition. You have been late for almost a year with continuing human resources complications and affairs, instead of using this first year for a thorough reflection on where you want to take our Slovenia. I am convinced that the National Reform Programme, the so-called NRP and the Instrument's Stability Programme, are important for the work of each government and coalition, because in some ways they commit the government and the coalition to meeting some of the agreed objectives. With the main objectives set out in this draft NRP, this is to promote investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility, I believe that we can all agree in this national assembly, which is a matter of state. The problem is that there is not one particular thing in the draft document. Coordination of pensions, recreational allowance, social transfers, promotion of public servants, all in line with the economic growth foreseen for 2016. This is not seen in the draft document or in a single word. More than €500 million is involved. What steps await us in the final establishment of SDH, will you finally be able to harmonise individual client's humane appetites? In fact, you wrote in the document that you will be in SDH with expertise and that politics will be very far away from holding your fingers. Will it be true? The 10-hour government meeting you had on this subject doesn't exactly indicate that. What will you do with privatisation, what will be your next steps in this area? Are there natural goods and goods that we can privatize for you? Water is obviously a commodity that can come into the hands of strangers, or I don't know why your client didn't support the change of constitution. I could also ask questions that are not answered in this document. President Cerar, please be specific in your answers. The time to think and look for structural answers is burning, now action is needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u23	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u24	Dear Member! It is true that Slovenia has regained economic growth in 2014, which is expected to continue for the next two years. Recovery is, of course, mainly linked to export potentials and economic penetration, but, of course, by maintaining international competitiveness, rational spending and consolidating public finances by all means, the government, of course, supports and must support the future. Despite the huge decline in GDP during the global financial crisis in Slovenia, we have only managed to maintain one of the highest levels of social equality in wider international comparisons. However, we must be aware that, despite great efforts to balance public finances, our objectives in this area have not yet been achieved. It is this year that we will try to achieve these objectives through the measures adopted. Of course, to the extent that this is realistically possible. We are currently in a situation that offers a lot of opportunities, but at the same time we need to be careful that we do not grow overcrowded appetites by means and then return to the situation where we were. In view of some of the assessments of foreign and domestic experts, we have emerged from the worst crisis, but we must be aware that all those structural weaknesses and irregularities from past times are now even more visible. In fact, we in Slovenia have not made enough structural changes in recent years and therefore better macroeconomic conditions must be used by Slovenia to continue and strengthen structural reforms, as this is the only way to enable long-term development. Key documents on these objectives are in preparation. If I wanted to explain all the details that only some of you had pointed out, it would take about an hour. I must therefore say that the objective of this process is to identify measures that must be in line with the medium-term fiscal framework, which ensures an adequate reduction of the country's deficit below 3% of GDP and ensures a structural effort of 0.5% of GDP per year, so that it is already levelled in 2020. That is why, in the draft National Reform Programme, the government has proposed that structural measures be designed to have a lasting impact on the structure and effectiveness of public finances. The key structural measures will include the transposition of those short-term measures already established in the ZUJF and ZIPRS, which are appropriate, which remain appropriate, while at the same time replacing all those which are no longer relevant in systemic legislation with other systemic measures that will achieve comparable or even better financial effects. In order to implement this proposal, the government is actively coordinating possible solutions and expects a result to be achieved that will ensure the achievement of both the basic objectives of reforming this future medium-term development, namely economic growth, including an increase in employment and the balance of public finances. So much for this basic part of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u25	Mag. Alenka Bratušek has the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. What strategic measures, Mr. President? We will when we will, if we will, if we don't, we will be something else. That was about how your answer, which I heard or which you gave us, sounded. I hope that in the interests of the state and the citizens you are aware that you and I are indeed two key years ahead. On April 30th, it is said in 10 days that the document must be forwarded to Brussels, and you do not know us today, you do not want to, you cannot tell us what our people are waiting for in the next two years. And this seems responsible to us and to the people? What's going to happen to the pension?Oh, my God! What's going to happen to public school?Oh, my God! What's going to happen to the public servants?Oh, my God! What's going to happen to health?Oh, my God! And we're talking about hundreds of millions of expenses. If within seven months you failed to find and find agreement within the coalition on the strategic measures you are talking about, I cannot imagine how you will do this in the next five or ten days. But in the end, we are also Members of politics, part of this country, and we probably have the right to know where this government and this coalition want to take our country in the next two, once again, I stress the key years for this country, that we will have long-term stable growth and that Slovenia will be able to become a social state. Please, at least three concrete measures, strategically or slightly less strategically, state that at least we will see direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u27	The answer is complemented by the President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u28	You have already received the National Reform Programme and I think the strategic measures already mentioned there. But it is true that the government is in the final stage of coordinating the stability programme, and we will do so by the end of this week when you will also be presented. However, there is still a need to make one last effort on coordination, so that it would now be inappropriate if you could get ahead of the event. In short, the matter will be presented transparently to the National Assembly, the public and all citizens will be able to see what this is all about. Last but not least, we have already communicated this matter with the social partners in some draft, so we are not hiding anything here. The thing is very transparent, you just have to wait, as you said, until the end of the month, procedures are running, we will do them so that there will be enough time for everyone to get acquainted with them and to respond to them. We will also present by the end of the month an action plan that we have already adopted at the beginning of the year and we will now only confirm it at this time to see what the government's priorities are for this year. As you said, of course, strategic short-term, medium-term and long-term measures are needed. The government is ready for all of this, and that's what it's doing. In two, three minutes, it's really impossible to represent these measures. I think if you really read the documents we've sent you and we'll send them to you, you'll find them all in there, or we'll always be available, the government and the ministers for further explanations. Also regarding health care, transfers, wages, including everything you said, the answers will be given. However, it is necessary to wait a few days for this second document to be finalized and brought to the public and to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u29	Mag. Alenka Bratušek has the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Given that the President himself says that a slightly more thorough response takes more time, I believe that at least the biggest government party will support my proposal to discuss in this National Assembly on Strategic Guidelines and Strategic Action, which should be based on the reform programme plan for the next two years, and we will discuss this thoroughly, and also Mr President will have more than a few minutes to do so. I, Madam President, have read this plan of the reform programme, the so-called NRP, very well. However, I am not sure that, after you have told me that you, because there is no one measure, one measure of that, do not write with one single word what will happen to public servants, what will happen to pensioners, what will happen to social transfers, what will happen to privatisation. None of this is mentioned in this document. I really wish, indeed, that the final document would be substantially different, substantially different from the draft, and that you would also take time for this national assembly, for us Members, to have a thorough debate on where you will take our country in the next two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u31	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April 2015, in the framework of the votes. The fourth Prime Minister of the Government is asked a question by Mrs Andrej Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. President of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! There are too many social differences and inequalities that lead to social development in the wrong direction in our society. The crisis is further deepening. Neoliberal and non-conservative economic models need differences in the potentials from which they draw strength and short-term benefits, so their logical desire to create greater differences between people. Social Democrats cannot accept such a development logic. We believe that's what our coalition partners think. We are convinced that economic development is primarily linked to people and their active participation. Successful economies are in our opinion those who are able to integrate as many people as possible into their processes, their creative potentials and skills. The middle class is a driving force for development, so it is imperative to strengthen it. In Slovenia, however, we did the opposite. In 2007, the introduced tax reform reduced the public financial inflows by EUR 900 million per year. Some economists estimate that the middle class is the most burdensome. This was also a blow after the amendment of social legislation and after the adoption of the ZUJF. The gap between the rich and the poor is deepening. Slovenia is on its way to economic recovery. Of course, demands and expectations are greater than realistic options, but we believe that the social democrats believe that there has been a period when the results of economic recovery must also affect people's well-being. We need a new social agreement that must be based on a promise that tomorrow we will all live together better, that this country will be safe, just, solidarity, strong, connected, pervasive, creative. We need to establish mechanisms to ensure that profits are invested in the quality of life of citizens and citizens. We believe that there is also a need for a change in the income scale in the pursuit of this objective, as the existing way is not fair. A new income class is needed to relieve the middle layer. The effect will be double: increased inflows to the budget and increased domestic consumption. The final result will be greater economic growth. We have also announced options for reshaping the income scale in the coalition agreement. Dear Prime Minister, the Social Democrats ask you: Is there, on the other hand, a change in the income scale between the measures envisaged for decommissioning the economy and raising consumption, on the other hand, by decommissioning the middle class? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u33	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u34	Dear Member! First of all, let me answer a question that you finally asked. Specific measures on the income scale, whether this will change to relieve the middle class, have not yet been developed. But this is one of the things you said to the government that this possible change will be studied and implemented if we do not find better such measures, which will ensure exactly what you were talking about. Let me say something here, there will be no doubt. Not only the SD, but also some other party, including the SMC, and probably others who are keenly desiring and striving to bring back some more prosperity to our country, including to all those who are today poor, humiliated, indignant, and therefore without sufficient resources. It is quite clear that, I think it is inappropriate for any of us to take on the effort to do so, because I think that most of us here have very clearly long ago realized that the key problem of our society is in this, so we want from the crisis to be able to give people a job, so we can give them jobs, so that they can make their own decent lives work as much as possible, so that they can also make payments more suitable, and that we will help those who cannot work themselves because of objective circumstances. This I think is some fundamental orientation of the whole government, not just one party, but the others. And I must also stress this here before the citizens that the matter will be perfectly clear. In the past, very many measures have been taken in the area of taxation, tax policy, tax system, extreme complexity, non-transparency, even and equitable burden-sharing have been disrupted, with regard to the system of compliance with tax obligations, extremely high administrative costs for both taxpayers and supervisory authorities. We are aware of this and will therefore draw up measures that will follow the objectives of the modern trend in the development of tax systems. This means that we will focus on extending tax bases by reducing the number of exemptions, which means, for the first time, greater neutrality of the tax system, secondly, better transparency, thirdly, simplicity and lower administrative burden both on the part of the taxpayers and on the part of the supervisory institutions. This will also provide additional public financial revenues, which will help the government to redefine the distribution of the tax burden between consumption, income and property with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment and reducing the burden of labour revenues. Thus, as I have already said, in this context and with this purpose, the applicable income scale will also be re-examined. The government is aware that on the revenue side it is important to ensure an efficient and friendly tax system, which can lead Slovenia definitively out of the crisis and on the path of recovery, while ensuring, as I said, the well-being of the population and the quality of the social state. On the one hand, the government will make changes in the area of public charges, which will provide stable and predictable public financial revenues, and on the other hand will try to improve the competitiveness of the business environment, in particular by removing administrative burdens already mentioned and restructuring tax burdens. At the same time, and not least by means of amendments, we will also increase the horizontal fairness of the system of public benefits in order to eliminate the identified anomalies of the existing system and to prevent the possibility of avoiding public charges. It is true that key economic indicators and indicators in the labour market have begun to show and reflect the more encouraging situation and the gradual exit of Slovenia from the economic and financial crisis, but we must be aware that the situation is still relatively uncertain, difficult and therefore we must not step out of this path, we must make no big mistake. In particular, we will focus on measures that will improve, as I said, competitiveness, increase the productivity of the economy by securing existing jobs and creating new jobs. However, we have several other measures available regarding the consolidation of public finances and other factors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u35	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 6th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Mr Bojan Podkorška's question regarding the taxation of vegetable processing should be answered, but he is absent today due to his participation in the Council of the European Union for Agriculture and Fisheries in Luxembourg. I ask the Member whether he insists on an oral response or whether he wants a written reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Of course, we ask and ask Members of Parliament questions to ministers or to the President of the Government mainly because there are a lot of problems in Slovenia. I would therefore sincerely ask that, since Mr Minister was already absent from the previous meeting, this desirable answer would be received as soon as possible, and I sincerely ask that by the next meeting, it will be for two months now, Mr Židan only orally answered this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u37	The Minister will answer the question orally at the next meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. In his capacity as Minister of Defence, which is justifiably absent today, Dejan Židan will be asked the question of mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u38	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! On 8 April, it is said that a bad two weeks ago, Mr Weber, the Minister of Defence, was released in this Chamber. On the proposal of the President of the Government, 68 MPs and Members voted in favour of discharge, based on the argument given by the President of the Government that there was an obvious excess of powers, since the Ministry of Defence Intelligence and Security, which was ordered by the Minister to produce a study on the positive and negative effects of the sale of Telekom, did not, of course, have such powers under law, but was its task under the law to protect our units at home and abroad. Within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, it must not carry out any intelligence activities at all, but can only operate in intelligence abroad. The Minister gave this instruction to Mr Rednak, which is said to the Director-General of the Service, orally, which he sent to the College further to his subordinates. Given the content of this task, both the Minister and the Director-General, Mr Rednak, should be aware that this is a violation of the legal powers, of what the service can do, which is of course a major problem. Today he is serving as another minister, of course the president of the party belonging to him, Mr Weber, which is a somewhat embarrassing solution, but I think at this point it is everyone's first task to take care of the consolidation of the service. The whole event had some other parts, let's say that a document had been revealed, even though it had been said earlier that everything was only reported orally, it had been said that it was a draft and that this document had not been misled at all in the official system of the Ministry, although it should be in accordance with all the relevant rules and standards of NATO. As a result, nothing is verifiable, nothing is evident and nothing is traceable, which in the intelligence and security services which may interfere with the field of human rights should necessarily be. In addition to the Minister, who bears an objective responsibility for the situation, Mr Rednak, Director-General of the Service, is directly responsible, in that part, in accordance with his or her powers, as well as his Deputy. To allow the service to begin its important task as soon as possible, this is to protect the security of our units at home and abroad, I ask the Minister: When will you replace, I hope that as soon as possible, the Director General of the Intelligence and Security Service of the Ministry of Defence, Mr Goraz Rednak?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u39	Would you like a written or oral answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u40	I want a possible response as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u41	All right, then write it. The question will now be raised by Dr Matej T. Vatovec, Minister of the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Madam Secretary! The Ministry of the Environment and Space, which regularly provides for the financing of Soline, d.o.o., which manages the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park, has suspended funding for the operation of Sergey Mashera Piran, who is the custodian of the Museum of Solinary this year. This is a failure without which the Maritime Museum cannot provide regular activities of the Museum of Solinery. By 2011, the museum had created enough of its own revenues, which were essential for maintaining the salt fund, regulating the embankments and maintaining the restored solina house. After 2011 and the adoption of the new management plan of the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park, the museum came to state funding in approximately half of the amount it had created and thus became dependent on its own budget financing, while all revenues from the entrance to the museum and the sale of salt went to Soline d.o.o. Under your leadership, the Ministry of Environment and Space has also abolished this compensation. Not because of the crisis, not because of the budget. It simply abolished its share of funding. The Maritime Museum is a legal person, the Regional Park of Sečovlje Soline is not a legal person, and its administration is an integral part of Soline, d.o.o., which is owned by Telekom Slovenije. However, the state budget continues to finance this particular company, called Soline, d. o. o. That's why I'm asking you: How is it possible that the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the Management of the Park and the Operation of the Solinary Museum allocates budgetary resources to the subsidiary of Telekom and completely terminates them to the public office of the Maritime Museum Sergey Mashera Piran? And the second question: Who is obliged financially to care for the smooth work of the Museum of Solinar and thus to preserve the cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u43	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u44	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, Dr Matej Vatovec, thank you for the question. For the area in which we are going to start, you have already started, and I will try to design an answer, the way in which the protected areas were managed in these urinary salts was determined in 2001. At that time, legislation allowed or allowed individual regimes to be evaluated or recorded in different regulations. Thus, in this one area, covering just over 200 hectares, in fact a single area, a Regulation on the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park and a Regulation on the proclamation of the Museum of Solinary as a cultural monument of national importance is laid down. Once again, I say that there are two different legal bases, while today it would certainly be possible to resolve this with a common insurance against the perceived synergies of protection, which today makes it possible and in fact the situation of the two operators who have faced such and different problems and problems in the past in the implementation of their works. An interdepartmental agreement and a plan for the management of this area was reached in 2011. This management plan covers the period 2011-2021. At that time, it was stipulated that the relationship between the two public services in the Sečovlje Solinas should be regulated so that all admissions from the visitors would be made to the park manager and that the ministry would ensure that the costs of presenting the Solinary Museum in the park would be met, namely for the following content, the opening of the Solinary Museum, which was carried out last year, i.e. the management of it and the implementation of the camps. For the concessionaire himself, these are Soline, d. o. o., in fact, the management of three different important concessions: management of cultural heritage, management of natural heritage and also watercourses in an outflow into the sea. The museum itself is, of course, a smaller unit to this extent, and it is unimaginable that in this smaller unit, someone else is carrying out the information and guidance of visitors four hours a day. Imagine that we are visitors, so we go to this area, we pay our entrance fees, they lead us around this area, they explain everything to us, and at the Museum of Solinary we find that we can't look at it because it's closed because it's only four hours a day open. And it is, of course, an agreement with the concessionaire, who in fact runs the works and professionally controls this cultural heritage, but it is not possible to go to the museum itself. In the past or last year, the works were carried out with the help of the staff through student works, which is of course perfectly fine, but there is no good organisation in the way that these works are carried out only four hours a day, which is detrimental to the reputation of the operation of this museum. In further procedures, I hope that we will agree on some things with the representatives of the manager of this museum. But I don't agree with the form of the salt marketer. I am convinced that the salt is being marketed by the one who came, that it is a great value of Slovenia, that in the past it has been much designed to promote. In this way, salt production is virtually nowhere in the world and is to be avoided. Hereinafter, there may be some additional emphasis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u45	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u46	The request to complete the response is likely to be multilayered or at least three points I would like to lean on. You say the Museum of Solstice has been open for four hours. As far as I know, I think these workers have been longer and have been provided with professionally qualified personnel who were museums and people who have passed professional examinations. So I don't see how someone from Soline, d.o.o., could now manage this cultural heritage, even though they are conducting a tour of the natural park, which is essentially different. Of course, this also gives me the idea of what happens when Telekom is sold, what happens to Solini, d. o.o., and what happens to natural and cultural heritage, including a monument of national importance. I believe that you are familiar, Minister, with the management plan of the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park and here you have not answered my question. It says here on page 74 that the Ministry of Environment and Space will finance the Museum of Solinary, as regards the costs of presenting cultural heritage in the park, in 2011 with 23,000 euros and by 2015 with 35,000 euros. Last year you dropped it to 20 grand, and this year that amount was cancelled. I want to know: Why and who will have to cover this difference? I would like to request a supplement at this point: Who will finance the Solinary Museum, and how will this continue to be regulated?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u47	The reply is complemented by Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you. When we talk about the presentation of the natural park, it's your performance that's fine. Once again, all the fields where salt is produced are protected under the regulation and are cultural heritage, visitors' knowledge, guided by this part of the cultural monument, which could also be spoken of as part of the Museum of Solinarism. What is the Museum of Solinary? This is not a work organisation, there is no organisation that can be defined as such, but it is only within this park, for which, I repeat, there are two regulations that overlap on the surface. So at the same time, part of the park is a cultural monument and a natural heritage monument. And for this part, there are professionally trained personnel who run the park and have an appropriate exam. It wouldn't just be a small part, so it's just the place where this exhibition is taking place, because it's impossible to lock up outside this park. In this part, we would like to find a solution with the manager so far to provide all-day visits or visits to these places where visitors are there. I am sure that we all agree that it is difficult for tourists to explain why in Slovenia during the biggest tourist season one thing is closed. As for financial support for the smooth work of the Museum of Solarization, I repeat that this is not an organisation. In this respect, only the exhibition spaces which are within the building must be properly maintained. As far as the concessionaire is concerned, this is currently the case. Concessions are granted and may also be withdrawn if the concessionaire does not provide appropriate procedures, does not provide adequate maintenance of the system, nor does it provide adequate investments that are not only the subject of the management plan but also concession contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u49	Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you. From what the Minister has said, it is clear that the matter is much more complex and profound. I still haven't received this response to what's going on with this funding. As far as I know this document, the real management plan of the landscape park is here, there is no basis for stopping co-financing itself, but the commitment is that the Ministry of the Environment implements this funding. Here we are talking about 20 000 euros a year to carry out this activity at the museum, which I think is not only of national importance but also of wider importance. Last but not least, this area has been trying to run for a long time on Unesco's list. I propose that this point also be discussed at the next regular session in the light of this vicious arrival of Telekom Slovenije's privatisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u51	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April 2015, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be raised by Mrs Andreja Potočnik to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počvalško.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honorable Council of Ministers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Development and Technology the following questions. In Milan, Expo 2015 will present its achievements to 144 countries, including Slovenia. The Expo has been organised since the mid-19th century every 5 years and lasts 6 months. It is intended primarily to present the achievements of humanity to the world public. 20 million visitors are expected in Milan. The exhibition is expected to be attended every fourth Italian, which is an excellent opportunity for the promotion of Slovenia. This time, the basic theme of the exhibition is food, or Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life, Feeding the planet, Energy for Life. What I'm interested in is: What exactly is the red thread of the promotion of Slovenia at this exhibition? What will be the basic message to the public? What is the estimated cost? What is the intended effect of the promotion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u53	The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr. Hello Restoration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u54	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Member, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Some history first. Expo is again close to Slovenia after many years. He was closest to us in 1873, when he was in the then common country of Austro-Hungarian, Vienna, and then again in 1906, when he was in Milan, just as he will be this year. This is about Slovenia's proximity, given the importance of Italy as our important external trading partner in second place or third place, given that after the first tourist arrivals, Expo is very important this year, so we decided to perform under the slogan "I feel Slovenia" or using the already established slogan "I Feel Slovenia". Green. Active. "Healthy." Green Slovenia because it is decorated by a large and diverse natural wealth, active, green, and a vibrant environment and healthy food, green environment, an active way of life. As it is said, on Expo we have about a thousand square meters of area on which there is 900 square meters of building. We have a disproportionately large pavilion, one of the twenty-five within 144 countries with which we will try to actively present the economy of Slovenia, within it tourism and culture. We will have five main contents of a permanent debate, namely salt, bees, mineral thermal water, hiking, cycling and a black carbon project. The five main contents of the permanent exhibition are linked to the story of five grains to preserve the green active and healthy Slovenia. Visitors are encouraged to realize that with small steps we can do something good for ourselves, for Slovenia, for the planet. For active participation through our pavilion, the visitor will be invited to contribute to the conservation of green active and healthy Slovenia for each of the content set with interactive participation and to contribute to the end of the permanent exhibition. The pavilion as well as the central building of the permanent exhibition are based all the time on number 5. Five pyramid units of the building, five main contents of the permanent exhibition, five grains of goo, five senses: hearing, vision, typing, smell, taste. The goals that we want to achieve by participating in the 2015 international exhibition Milana are: to strengthen the visibility of the state brand "I feel Slovenia" and to enhance Slovenia's reputation in Italy and the world; to strengthen economic cooperation between Slovenia and Italy and other countries participating in Expa and to promote Slovenia as a tourist destination. The whole project will cost us €5 million after the Government's decision, of which we have already settled about a million for contractual obligations and there is a difference in the implementation phase. As it is said, an economy will be presented on the Expo and tourism within it and culture throughout all Slovenian regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u55	The next one will be Minister of Culture Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar questioned the mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President. Ms Juliani Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture, I have raised the issue of the protection of cultural heritage in Ljubljana. It is a question of preserving the cultural heritage of Plečnik Stadium behind Bežigrad and it is in some way a fundamental question of how Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture look at the cultural heritage, which sometimes seems to be better and more carefully protected abroad than in the country of origin. Plečnik's football stadium was founded by the company Bežigraski sport park, founded by former director Janez Kocjančič, Mayor Zoran Janković and entrepreneur Joc Pečečnik. But that bad conscience in the right sense of the word that everyone is looking away. 9 years have passed since the establishment of this company, which, with the help of the Municipality of Ljubljana, donated functional land to the joint venture, created a dispute with the surrounding population, made a whole chain of complaints, causing the project to move nowhere and the project has been standing for 9 years. In various instances, opponents and advocates of this project are given for their own good by various institutions, and Slovenians are watching this pearl of cultural heritage fail. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Culture: Does the Ministry of Culture continue to allow, without response, the deterioration of the Bežigrad stadium of Plečnik's cultural heritage? Will you, Minister, take responsibility for the possible final destruction of cultural heritage, precisely because of the lack of action by the Ministry? What are the Ministry's plans for Plečnik's legacy? The question is also on the table because the Minister participated today in the award of Plečnik's awards for 2015. It is a central public and highest professional recognition to Slovenian authors, which has been awarded since 1973. And the irony of the whole story is that one of the co-proposers in this division is the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is responsible for the collapse of the important part of Plečnik's heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u57	It's mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u58	I welcome Mr President of the National Assembly, ministers and ministers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Ange Logar, for the question of Plečnik's stadium, thank you. You are talking about the period since 2009 when Plečnik Stadium was declared a monument of state importance. I have been running this ministry for about seven months, and I have wondered how things have been since then, and I can ensure that the Ministry of Culture does not allow the stadium to collapse. Thus, the Republic of Slovenia's Cultural and Media Inspectorate issued the Plečnik Stadium case on 17. 3. 2010 decision on the execution of maintenance works, i.e. the immediate procedure of the inspector after the stadium was declared a cultural monument of State importance on 18. Seven. 2009 The work carried out by the debtor was carried out in its own direction and within the time limit set by the decision. Due to deliberate vandalism at the facility at the beginning of 2011, a new decision was issued to the debtor on 22. 3. 2011 which imposed on him the prevention of access to the facility and thereby the elimination of the possibility of re-intentional destruction. The debtor also implemented this decision within the time limit imposed. Since the investor was not granted a building permit and the facility eventually showed signs of injury again, he was 20 years old. 11. A new decision on the execution of maintenance works on the glorieta wreath and on 19. 4. 2012 implementation of more comprehensive maintenance works on the glorie and part of the stadium. The debtor has not fully carried out these works and the procedure has therefore been continued in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Decision of 19. 4. 2012 has become legal and enforceable. In accordance with the law, it was 22 years old. 6. 2012 issued to the obligor a warning for the fulfilment of the obligations. In spite of the failure of the debtor to do so, the Inspectorate called on the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage to make a financial assessment of the remedial works following the decision and to determine the date of enforcement. The Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage has produced a financial assessment of the maintenance works and has not been identified until the date of implementation. That's why it was 6. 6. 2014 a decision on the authorisation of enforcement was issued to the debtor and on 9. 6. 2014 decision on the foundation of funds. Both decisions were appealed by the defendant and were successful in his complaint, and the decisions were therefore reissued on 10 January. 9. 2014 and 11. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The defendant also complained about this decision, but this time he failed in the complaint. Days 20. 8. In 2013, Plečnik's stadium was hit by a storm that raised a third of the roof above the entrance to the stadium area from the Danube Road. A decision has been taken to remove the damage to the roof and this part has also been carried out in its own direction. It is clear from all of this that the Ministry Inspectorate has been continuously and regularly monitoring everything since the declaration for a cultural monument of State importance, which has already been severely damaged at the time of the declaration, and has issued the necessary and legally possible decision to carry out the necessary maintenance work in order to remedy the causes of its injury. He doesn't have any other powers. I would point out that, therefore, all the inspection decisions on the stadium were carried out by BŠP, d.o.o. by the first person in their own direction, and that the procedure at the inspectorate was stopped every time. It should be borne in mind, however, that a comprehensive reconstruction and partial reconstruction are necessary to revive the cultural monument and to re-use it. In particular, the entire complex needs to be revitalized and [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The Ministry of Culture is therefore planning to talk to the owners about revitalising the entire complex. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u59	Mag. Ange Logar has the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you, President. Madam Secretary, you haven't answered my question. You said it was a cultural monument of national importance. In your reply, however, you listed the measures taken by the inspectorate, which means that you have reduced the role of the Ministry of Culture on a topic that touches the cultural monument of national importance to the inspectorate. The Ministry of Culture is not an inspectorate. The Ministry of Culture is to preserve our national cultural heritage. In this respect, in your reply, you only touched on the part of the answer in this regard when you said that the issue should be fully addressed and met with all involved. I advise you to do this as soon as possible. Otherwise, a great acquaintance of Plečnik's heritage, Mr Krečič, says that the project of Bežigraski sport park does not respect cultural protection conditions. He carefully examined it and, inter alia, found that keeping it in the above-mentioned cabinets would mean destroying everything except the glorieta or the honorary tribunal, as you have already mentioned, and that it should be withdrawn and replaced immediately with another project. Among other things, he wrote this in his article entitled Renovation of Plečnik Stadium or a breakdown of Slovenian monumental protection. In this respect, I ask you: What's your opinion? Is the project really the best solution for the decaying stadium? Or what will you do in the event of saving this unique cultural heritage of national importance? Not just by inspection, but by content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u61	The answer is complemented by a mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much for this additional question. Yeah, that's the way it is. The Ministry must take into account the legitimate ways in which they are. That's why we have an inspectorate to act in accordance with the law. As you can see, he was extremely active all the time. As for the letters from Dr. Krečič, Mr Krečič, I have also read it myself, but the professional decision, the professional evaluation I leave with experts, and also in this regard I have asked myself and, among other things, I have received a letter from the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which has already been addressed to owners, and this has already suggested how this matter should be handled. Back then, years ago, there was no such response. That is to say, we at the Ministry of Culture will try non-inspecting, i.e. by other means to arrange for the real revitalization of cultural heritage, but the legal provisions are as they are at present. On the other hand, some more serious measures or measures are needed, and there are other reasons why they can be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u63	Mag. Anže Logar shall have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, you probably agree with me that the stadium is still in such poor condition or worse every day, that these inspections do nothing at all, even though they would be carried out every day in the event of this cultural heritage. You said you trusted the experts. See, Mr Jankovic, Mr Kocjančič, Mr Pečečnik is not an expert in the field of protection of cultural heritage. Those to which you referred in your reply, at least after writing to the media already in January, warned you that a joint project task should be prepared, but there were no responsible responses, according to him. I would therefore like to see a more detailed debate in this regard on this eminent cultural heritage. After all, I can read to you what your collective or coalition contract requires at the Culture point, where you are committed to strengthening cultural heritage. Inspection alone is not a strengthening of cultural heritage. It's a complete solution in the case of this stadium. Then, in the case of infrastructure, point 7 Implement measures to preserve cultural heritage in cooperation with other resources, in particular the Mišš and MG. In this case, you did not give an answer in this direction either. And point 10, right point Maintaining cultural heritage: "We will advocate effective, stable and long-term financing of heritage". You have not provided any response to the coalition agreement concerning the protection of Plečnik Stadium's cultural heritage. The line you're consulting has not received an answer. Therefore, in this case, if we do not want to see this once again pride of cultural heritage falling before all of us, I propose that the Ministry of Culture seriously address these issues and, within the framework of a given and, of course, within the framework of legal means, seek such a solution that will be in everyone's interest. However, I would like this to be discussed in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u65	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April 2015, in the framework of the votes. Ms Iva Dimic will now raise the question to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Act on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No 16/08, provides special protection against domestic violence to children or minor family members. Under Articles 4 and 5 of this Law, a child is also a victim of violence if he is present in the commission of violence against another family member or if he lives in an environment where violence is committed. In order to protect the victim, all authorities and organisations are required to carry out all procedures and measures to protect them, with the rights and benefits of child victims of violence taking precedence over the rights and benefits of other parties to the procedure. Among other things, victims of violence also have the legal right to an advocate who protects the rights of victims in the process and in all other activities. Clearly, this right belongs to all children living in a violent family. The proponent is the one who provides assistance to the child in solving their distresses and problems in relation to the parents, and in particular in relation to the institutions and bodies. But all I've listed is, according to our data, just a situation that should be in accordance with the law. In fact, provisions have been made regarding the protection of children who are recognised by law as victims of domestic violence in practice. Children who are victims of violence are not guaranteed the right to an advocate. As far as we know, the Institute of Child Protection is only implemented with the Ombudsman, much of it is only a pilot project. Madam Minister, in what way will you ensure the implementation of the adopted Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence regarding the rights of children who are victims of domestic violence in the work relating to the right to defend and in what time dynamic? Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u67	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Ambassador Iva Dimic, thank you for asking. Yes, the law provides that children have the right to an advocate in all procedures that are directed to their benefit, even when it comes to domestic violence, so that their voice can be heard. Since 2006, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has been working as part of the Human Rights Ombudsman's Office and is supporting it. The fact is, for the first time in the family code was the provision to establish an advocate as an institution in our country. Unfortunately, you know what happened to the family code. However, according to assurance, this project works, even in 2015 we have provided the means to implement it, so we are actually extending this project to the systemic regulation of this area. There are 80 advocates and advocates. In fact, we have not been informed that there would be any problem, because, of course, even in cases of domestic violence, children have the right, if they express their own need, or any of the institutions involved in the process, to the right of an advocate. And it was not for the Ministry to be aware that any of the children would have been violated that right or not to have it. And according to data, so far the social inspector has dealt with only one case, i.e. a complaint against the Centre for Social Work, which in the process of protecting the children of his advocate did not want to be taken into account and involved in the process. In fact, if we look at the whole situation, the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family, which has established and is the most important act, and in the coming period very many sectoral rules have been agreed between different spheres, i.e. the Centres for Social Work, the police, education, health care and ways in which they participate in dealing with domestic violence. And this works now, and we also have this Vesna project, and therefore, according to my information, the proponent as a pilot project allows us to meet our legal obligations. However, it is certainly necessary in our country to establish advocacy, not only on a pilot basis, but to turn it over. In the normative plan of the Government's work this year, the drafting of a law on families, where this is primarily a system of measures for the protection of the weak. It may not be a law on families, the name is not so important, but it is a redesign of this area of measures to protect the benefit of children, which is, of course, more or less unchanged under the Marriage and Family Relations Act and needs an amendment, which of course included a family code. We will work in the direction that, during this period, what we have achieved in the country with the Ombudsman, this project will continue so that we do not lose these good practices.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u69	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to request that the answer be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you for your explanation, Madam Secretary. Let me explain that all the parliamentary groups were informed of the case when our court ruled on the extradition of a minor child who lived with a mother, a father abroad, on the basis of the Convention on the Civil Rights Aspects of the International Illegal Seizure of Children ratified by Slovenia. This Convention lays down in Article 13 that the court does not order the return of a child if there is a serious danger that the return of the child would expose him to physical or mental violence or otherwise put him in an unfavourable position. In a specific case, there was a case of domestic violence, as explained by the mother at the competent centre for social work. The child was not put on trial by an advocate. The Centre for Child Protection Social Work has done nothing. Neither the mother nor the child, and both of them have the status of domestic violence victims, and there has been no possibility of cooperation in court proceedings. As a result, the child was returned to an environment where violence is committed on the basis of a judicial decision in the enforcement procedure. Madam Minister, I ask you: What will you do to ensure that social work centres effectively protect and protect children who have been victims of violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u71	The answer is complemented by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you for asking. You certainly know that I can't comment on a specific case here. However, I would just like to say to the public that our court has ruled twice on this matter, that the mother did not request counsel and that, of course, things are not so simple and that the question of the rights of the father and others is also a matter. So our court has ruled twice on all relevant facts on this matter. I find it difficult to comment on the Court's decisions, but it is certainly the report of the Centre for Social Work, because I immediately asked for every such thing which is sensitive, in which there was no, at least at the time, as well as the Court's decisions were taken into account all the relevant facts and the Court ruled on this basis. But it is not usually just a uniform view, but it is also a matter of taking into account the other side, that is, the rights of the father. Now, if there was violence, what you were saying, I believe that our court would not have ruled as it had decided. It's hard to make public comments about things like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u73	The next question will be raised by Mr Franc Jurša to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u74	I say hello to all of you! Madam Minister, otherwise, we have asked you a similar question already in November at the second regular meeting of the National Assembly, but I would like to ask you a few questions about the work of the pensioner, as the year will soon end and, of course, the espas, to which we extended the deadline, will seek some new solutions. Like some other civil groups in our Desus Group, we have also pointed out, when adopting the latest amendment to the Law on Parental Records to the debtors and beneficiaries of compulsory pension and disability insurance, that a comprehensive, systematic and equal solution must be found for the work of the pensioners. We know that the legal possibilities for the work of pensioners are considerable. However, the fact is that they have different tax status, all types of work are not equally accessible to all under the same conditions. In short, we all know, including you, Madam Minister, that there is a little chaos in this area. You have also made a public promise that a systemic solution will have to be found this year, which will ensure that all pensioners who want to work and, of course, also have to work for survival, have the same position. Finally, you probably agree with me that the current situation is a favourable basis for pensioners to be used primarily in black work, but we know what it means, which, of course, also means greater damage to the social treasury, the budget, as if the financial burdens of such work were uniform and even somewhat smaller or minimal. Given that redefining the work of pensioners is a coalition commitment and that the current social agreement also refers to this point as one of the measures in the labour market: Ladies and gentlemen, if this is happening and what is happening in this regard? Have you prepared any professional starting points? To what extent are they consistent with the social partners? When can we expect a legislative process to start? Is that going to happen before the summer?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u75	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for the question, Mr. Jurša. The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Yes, you know very well that our pensioners can work in different ways in our country, under the civil law contract they have the possibility of copyright and business contracts, personal complementary work is the possibility to work, and of course also a specific form of work of pensioners, which has been defined by the Labour Market Regulation Act. But the problem when we talk about the different forms of work and their tax burdens, this year's coalition contract provides for a comprehensive analysis of the existing labour costs and, on the other hand, a full review of tax reform, i.e. on the one hand, labour, capital and property burdens, and, of course, on the other hand, on the next year, on the calculation of this tax legislation, where it is particularly important to reduce labour costs. However, it is necessary to look at all the institutes in the labour market in a connected way, because, for example, if we are to make something cheap, one institute means that there will be more people working in that form than there will be others. Well, we need to be completely regulated. Similarly, when we look at the possibility of the systemic work of the pensioners' essays after retirement, the problem is still a little larger, a systemic challenge, because if someone has the same post-retirement work and has the same work, he does not pay contributions, as is the case now, he actually represents unfair competition for those who are not retired. Of course, this is a matter that needs to be addressed, a question of contributions, a matter of accounting. In addition, things open up to us when we cannot treat pensioners in a different way than employees, farmers, associates and other categories regulated by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. So, when a system solution is sought for the work of the 31-year-old experiential pensioners. 12. 2015, a comprehensive solution will also have to be found for the same form of work of farmers, associates and workers who were previously in a working relationship, which, of course, in terms of the existing labour market and competition for people on the market, raises the question of how we will deal with this. Therefore, in the framework of September, we will prepare the starting points to be discussed and agree with the social partners on a solution. Unfortunately, before the summer, I cannot promise you that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will be saved and that everyone will be able to work smoothly. However, it is in line with the Coalition Treaty and the solutions will be comprehensive. However, we would not want to allow one group to do something, to cause unfair competition on the other hand, and in particular to ensure that the cost of work represents a significant social dumping on existing workers. Which, of course, means that if someone who does not have to pay for contributions has the opportunity to work, this can mean pressure to reduce the costs of existing workers and workers, which, of course, also needs to be coordinated more widely with the social partners. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u77	Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to request that the reply be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u78	At the outset, I must say that I am very pleased with the Minister's response. But I would like to say what led me to ask this question. My priorities were not espouses, of course I myself am not an advocate of unfair competition. Of course I'm in favour of getting things all sorted out. The final question, the topic of my question in the background, was the following: I spoke to several people who had somehow worked, pensioners, in non-experimental deficient professions. And today in the labour market, actually, these professions are simple and simply not. Literally a potter who repairs an old bread oven – I hope you have ever seen it as such in your life – such people are simple and simply not. The mechanics who repair agricultural machinery are very few, they are not, but they are not espeii, they were workers who in tradesmen had relatively very low wages, as a result they also have low pensions and would have earned as long as health permits them, they also earned some money for their own survival. That's why I was going to ask this question, not because of the original one I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u79	The answer is complemented by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you. Unfortunately, it's hard to write in a marriage that only one category can work forward and you just don't solve things completely. But already in the existing Pension and Disability Insurance Act, there are different possibilities, for example, you can work for half-time, so someone who is a deficient profession is needing them, can work four hours, two hours, three hours, and the rest of the time is retired and his contributions are converted and then he also has a higher pension. Thus, there are many solutions already in the existing system that allow for the same status of pensioners and employees. Here within the reform of pension legislation allowed certain possibilities, and the fact is that in conversations with the Chamber of Commerce and with others, it is much easier for espies and individuals to actually retire, you get a pension, and then you have a source where you are only extra, because they are low pensions. That's a fact. But on the other hand, from the individual's point of view, the thing is very simple, "I would, of course, like to work to have an additional source." From the point of view of the labour market and the relationship between the various job seekers and those who are workers, labour in the labour market, this is a much more complex issue. The fact is that we will have to go towards greater flexibility, but it is not so uniform to say that we will make contributions by half, and everyone will be able to work further to a certain extent or we will determine the number of hours they can work, it will probably go in the direction of setting maximum amounts. But everyone in this room knows how, when we set certain limits that are due to the protection of the market as a whole, it is abused and we have great difficulties in doing so. I am most inclined, in fact, to resolve as quickly as possible the question of complementary work or the occasional and temporary part of pensioners, which the Institute is dedicated to them, but which is, of course, in terms of the way it is, so burdened for many pensioners that they are not actually paid for.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u81	As the next Minister of the Interior will be mag. Ms Anja Bah Žibert raised a question in the spring of Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, it is known that in post-socialist societies there is a considerable time gap between the transformation of the political system and the establishment of an appropriate political culture. It is precisely this intermediate space or time that is ideal for a breeding site of views and values that we cannot possibly consider democratic and country-efficient. In addition, resolution 1096 on measures to address the negative consequences of former communist totalitarian systems adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe speaks of preventing the legacy of former totalitarian systems. The resolution also points out that in the worst possible version there may be a velvet restaurant of the totalitarian regime or even violent overthrow of emerging democracy. In Slovenia we have witnessed the true euphoria of the magnification of the totalitarian communist regime, from symbols to celebration. In doing so, it should be stressed that such events are attended by even the most visible and highest representatives of the country, which is additional proof that something worrying and dangerous is happening in Slovenia. Even the school system is not exempt. A while ago, a step further was taken, at the Congress of the Political Party of the Initiative for Democratic Socialism, its President said: "The revolution has begun. The revolution has begun, so there is no time to rest on the laurels." And then he went on, "We can't lose months or weeks or days of fighting for socialism." A call that no longer involves so-called pop policy and cheap collection of political points. The statement raised concerns and fears among many citizens who are still aware of the importance of this threat. This call is also a threat to Article 1 of the Constitution: "Slovenia is a democratic republic". Let me also point out that even the most visible representatives of the civil movement were present at this event, these are trade unions. I therefore also ask you, pursuant to Article 63 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: How did the police and SOVA respond to this public call or threat, given that you are also a member of the National Security Council? How are you prepared for the possible actions of extremists who have felt called upon in this call and who pose a threat to people, property and democratic state order? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you. The Minister of the Interior, Mrs Mag, will answer. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear Member, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! As one of the actors of the national security system, Slovenian police have contributed significantly not only to security in the Republic of Slovenia but also to its internal stability by fulfilling its tasks. In relation to the basic tasks of the police, it is fair to say that the legislator has already committed itself to providing the basic conditions for the functioning of the rule of law in any case. The police carry out their core tasks as one of the actors in the national security system, which is part of this system, and it is also worth saying that the task of this system is also to protect and protect the constitutional arrangements and institutions of the democratic political system. The Ministry of the Interior, with its organs in its composition, has the duty, in any event, to protect the constitutional and democratic arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia at any time, together with the other national security system entities, and must also be qualified to do so all the time, and also be prepared to do so whenever anyone attempts to disrupt the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of your question raised, I can say that the police and the Ministry of the Interior are prepared for various forms of threat and we also guarantee action against the level of threat. Also, as you correctly note, the National Security Council has an important role to play in this regard, which has not yet been able to deal with a specific event, given that it has not yet been convened, i.e. from the previous reference to the next one, which will be in the near future. But with regard to the particular event that you mention, I can say that those words were spoken at the congress, as you said. At this stage, however, it is still a matter of political discourse, not in the first phase of the investigation. In any event, however, if it is found that the signs of a crime are given, they will in all cases, i.e. I am not specifically referring to this case, but in any case it is considered that the competent authorities are acting, because in the event of a suspicion that a machine offence has been prosecuted under official responsibility, the police are responding to these suspicions and are also responding in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act and also informing the competent state prosecutors of their findings.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will make a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Minister, you have answered me in more than concrete terms, above all, what your duties are. I know that, and that's why I asked you a question. Let me add a question or add it to it. What the call to revolution means, there's no need to explain it in particular. Let me just summarize the German officer Bild years ago who published the information that under the tactics of the revolutionary Titus, about a million people were killed on the ground of the former state. In Slovenia, respected, the revolution began with the liquidation of leading opponents. The worst forms of human rights violations have taken place, genocide has been committed against its own people. In 2009, the European Parliament also adopted a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Among other things, this emphasises that the fight against undemocratic, xenophobic, authoritarian or totalitarian ideas and aspirations requires constant vigilance. After your modest answer to the specific question, however, it seems that we are not exactly awake in Slovenia. I'm afraid even, I have a feeling we're even wiggling on purpose. As a citizen, not only as a Member of Parliament, but a democratic woman, I want specific answers from you, which will make it clear to the citizens that they are safe or protected from such threats and will respond to them as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you. Mrs Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior, will provide an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u88	In order to continue everything that has already been said, I would add only this. I am pleased that, as a Member of Parliament, you are very aware of the importance of the institution of the question of the Member, because this is one important control, parliamentary control over the executive branch of power. I also believe that in my first answer to your question I have answered enough. However, I would add that your question may be a bit too general, but if you have any specific information that you have not mentioned in this question, of course you know what the procedure is. So in what way, to whom, and how an appropriate criminal charge is filed. This will also allow the Ministry of the Interior to act with the competent authorities. However, there is nothing else I can say from your question so that I can give you some more concrete answers. Surely, however, we are also paying attention to all the events that are taking place in public. These events are all detected. And as I have already said, if it is found that certain specific offences are identified, namely, the 33rd Chapter of the Penal Code, which lays down offences against the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and its democratic constitutional arrangements, of course the competent authorities will also act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert will make a request for a discussion on the answer to be held at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u90	Dear Minister, I don't know who's insolvent. It's me or you. See if the call for a revolution, which means a violent takeover of power, is not enough for the authorities to react in accordance with the law and in accordance with the protection of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, then I seriously wonder what is going on in this country. I will not propose a debate because I know that this will not then be adopted in the National Assembly. But the fact is that the documents, which are also accepted at the international level, speak about the need for great attention here and it is not in Slovenia. In a way, if you do not respond by the Ministry, I think you agree with such calls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you. This was not a procedural requirement. We turn first to the question of Mrs Bacič to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, everyone in the hall! Madam Minister, the economic crisis has left Slovenian citizens and citizens with severe consequences, particularly for those most at risk. We are aware that the current economic situation in Slovenia is improving, but we still cannot feel these citizens and citizens on our skin. It has already been said in the media that at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities you are preparing a broader agreement that will help improve the situation for individuals and families where the crisis has left the greatest impact. In addition, the question of how these arrangements are being implemented is of particular interest to me: How can we help Members and Members of the National Assembly to prepare this project? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President Andreja Katič. I thank Mrs Bachič for the question. Nice greeting also to Members and Members and ministerial colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is finally recovering. Finance Minister Dusan Maramor in America at the edge of the spring meeting of the IMF and the World Bank explains that Slovenia is successful again, we have economic growth, the number of employees has increased in March as long as not. In one year, unemployment dropped by 8,000,600. Despite optimism, the crisis that we had in Slovenia for 6.7 years has hit more people deeply. Unemployment and persistently low income have pushed many of them into a vicious circle of debts and unpaid accounts. Many have fallen into the trap of shaky interest; today they are losing everything, home, family, hope for the future, and trust in the community. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we are preparing a comprehensive aid package for the weak as of February. With companies, municipalities, humanitarian organisations and the government as a whole, other ministries want to agree on assistance. We're not talking about forced marriage. We're talking about an agreement. We're talking about debt write-offs. Together with the Minister of Justice on the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Assistance to People in Work. We talked to the Prime Minister of the Government, the Ministry, the government is supporting the project as a whole. We have spoken with humanitarian organisations that are already complementing systemic assistance and helping those who are unfortunately falling out of the aid system. It is these days that we are meeting with companies that we believe will approach this project and demonstrate their social responsibility. We know that some companies are already canceling debts, but we are now talking about a unique symbolic write-off that would allow people to get a little rest and breathe and in some way symbolically end the despair and crisis. Aid in the form of debt cancellation for citizens and citizens would be an agreement, it would be the good will of businesses, countries and municipalities to do something together for the benefit of all the people of the Republic of Slovenia. We certainly do not want people to take advantage of the good will of businesses, humanitarian organisations and governments and communities, so I am talking about write-offs that are irrecoverable from the creditor's point of view. It is important that we deal with public funds economically, and that is why there has also been a discussion with the President of the Court of Auditors on the criteria which will have to be very clear in this write-off. With regard to the date of the write-off, things will be determined, but it is important that the Ministry does not only want to set criteria in advance, but wants to invite all partners to jointly develop criteria, both as regards write-offs and potential beneficiaries of this write-off. In particular, we invite humanitarian organisations, which we will also give them some discretion in order to be able to set additional criteria. Certainly it is not a transfer of practice in Croatia. Slovenia has a much better-designed debt write-off system, and we also have a chance of personal bankruptcy, which is not the case in Croatia. Practice cannot only be copied. It is also important that we discuss the activation of empty apartments as part of this package, together with the Housing Fund, the Ministry of Public Administration and the MORS. The problem of extended families would have been solved with this help. We're preparing a brochure for people, you won't believe how much, when we talk, we've also had a consultation of social work centres about job problems, how many people simply turn too late to help social work centres and are too high, there's no way to change things and then the worst happens. So, also this deadline to be more clear, in design and clear definitions, what people, whose rights are and what they can do for these rights. We'd like to make a deal with the banks. Above all, it is also important that we are preparing social activation programmes, because this is a one-off action that is a sign of an exit from the crisis to clean up the back, if I say so. Of course, it is important that, if I simply say, we give people leverage, that they can get rid of it themselves, and that they will not in some way desperately seek the assistance of the state, but we must give people the power to face their own problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u95	Mrs. Maria Bachič, are you asking for an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister, but I would like to answer the question: How can we, Members and Members of Parliament, help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you. The answer will be complemented by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you. Before I answer that last question, I should have finished with the banks. You know that sad story that banks charge current accounts to people who have only social transfers in current accounts, i.e. cash social assistance, security allowances exempted from the law of enforcement, and therefore cannot be cut down in current accounts, and only for these views are chargeable from Euro26 to €35. This is what we are trying to do, I am really grateful to the Minister of Justice that, along with the amendment of the Law on Enforcement, we are also studying, or we are now very far away, that we will introduce social cards, that people will have these social transfers on special cards, so this will not be possible at all. It is, however, that the banks have been recapitalised by all of us together, and it is right to be here in this project, and I believe that banks will also be involved, especially the whole thing is that all those who want to work together to do something, in some way, with write-offs, with debts of citizens and citizens, municipalities through utilities, companies such as energy, electricity, that is to say, when it comes to the necessary costs, that we all, together in some social agreement, determine which groups of people who have suffered the most, we will help together in this agreement. Here is a very important issue of fund-building, where it will be necessary to provide funds for the renovation of these empty apartments. Unfortunately, these apartments are empty, but they are mostly able not to be offered to people, so they will need to be renovated. And there is also a question of probably broader action, calls for companies to donate perhaps little funds more widely to ensure the most urgent. There is some way to call on all of us, the State, the National Assembly of everything, but in addition to this systemic assistance provided by the State and absolutely must ensure that we are able to step together, because we are stronger. And with that, we all do one good gesture together. It is not logical here for only the state to do its job, but above all to raise this cooperation within society and that we all achieve something together, and here you are certainly Members and Members more than welcome. But in the coming weeks, not more than a few months, weeks, this oris will be known, and then this draft social agreement will be signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished minister, nice greeting! The placement of the third development axis, I am talking about the work from the Lower Savinja Valley to Koroška, has been going on for 7 years. I can say that it is or that it will be a project with a long beard, because time is running very fast and the time beard of this project is growing very quickly. The very need for a transport link to the Shaleska Valley, Velenj and Koroška does not need to lose words. We know how only Velenje with the Shalej Valley is highly industrially developed, that there are many successful companies both in Velenj and in the Shaleška Valley, then in the following Thinkinja, Slovenj Gradec, Dravograd, Koroška, Ravne, Montenegro, in short the entire northern part is kind of extremely busy, because it does not have a proper transport connection, I would say, with no direction, nor towards the centre of the country, nor against the rest of our republic. With this cut-off road connection, all these companies are placed in an unequal business position in their industries, because they have higher costs in this regard, they are not able to operate as successfully as they can, and thus are more difficult to deal with in their business with their competitors both at home in the country and with others on the European market. For this reason, I would like to ask the distinguished Minister of Environment and Space: What is the forward dynamic of placing the high road of the third development axis in the area, primarily in this part of the Lower Savinja Valley to Velenje, because this is the most important leg? I know that the two intermediate legs against Koroška are already made, three more are missing in the very part of Koroška, and I am primarily interested in this connection of the settlement against Velenje. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, honourable Member, thank you for the question. With a topic that speaks, of course, about the solution of the road connection, this is part of the third development axis, you have indicated the time of rescue and I also wish that my answer, which I will give, will be real. On 18 March this year, the Government adopted a decision to continue the preparation of the State Spatial Road Plan between AC A1 and Velenje South by optimised variant F2-2 with a view to improving the transport link between the Sava region and the international transport links. In the same decision, the Government took a decision to stop the planning on variant F3-B, a section from the A1 motorway at the base of Velenje. The variant F2-2 was defined as the most appropriate in the study and is in the public interest. It also has a draft State Spatial Plan. In doing so, I would like to say that several units are taken into account in the preparation of the State Spatial Plans, one of them is an environmental aspect and then it is spatially-developmentally, transport-economically and functionally. And it is on this issue that this transport and economic and functional role has played an important role. In environmental terms, these definitions, of course, relate mainly to areas which intersect with road connections, could be agricultural land, could be protected areas after Natura 2000 or could be water protection areas, as was the case with this treatment. The F2-2 is a transport-efficient one, rescues traffic in Velenje, maintains a free corridor at the Arja vas-Velenje section, connects to the adopted state spatial plan for the Velenje-Slovenian Gradec section and supports the economy and municipalities of Upper Savinjska and Šaleska valley. The F2-2 does not agree with the Municipality of Braslovče and cites as its essential weakness the flow through agricultural land. At our Directorate for Space, where activities are being carried out for the installation of the State Spatial Plan, we provide for the completion of an environmental report and a textual part of the draft State Spatial Plan Regulation by the beginning of May, a positive opinion on the appropriateness of the environmental report and a public elaboration of the draft State Spatial Plan, together with an environmental report by the end of May, June. It is then necessary to draw up views on the comments of this public decommissioning by September, to obtain an opinion on the planning of this investment and the decision on the acceptability of the plan by December of this year. And then the adoption of the government regulation in January, February 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has a procedural request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am particularly interested in time dynamics, not so much, I would say which option will be chosen because there are more of these proposals. I'd say every proposal has some advantages and some weaknesses. I am particularly concerned that Minister Gasperšič himself said on the last Committee on Infrastructure that this project is practically standing and recently the President of the Government also made a statement that the third development axis would start to be built in 2018. I would say that this information somehow doesn't go together, but mainly with my concern, because we know that the financial perspective 2014-2020 is already running very well, but we don't even have the basic placement of the route into the space itself, let alone, I would say that we can talk about the beginning of the construction. And I'm actually wondering, what's the real deal now? Is this true of what the Prime Minister himself says or do you see the possibility that this construction will begin in this financial perspective 2014-2020?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you. The Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, will complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you. In this implementation, I cannot answer the questions relating to other ministers in the Government or to the President of the Government. I can answer in the part where the Ministry of Environment and Space prepares documentation for the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. You have already indicated that this procedure lasts for 7 years. In response, I stated that, on 18 March this year, we decided to confirm the F2-2 variant in the Government, which means that the F2-2 option remains no longer in this procedure, and that this year is in fact only necessary for us to adopt the State Spatial Plan. You can't go faster than that. For other questions, please refer to the appropriate resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Of course, because the answer to the time dynamic itself is not possible at this point, I suggest that there be a public debate in this regard, because it is an extremely important topic which covers, I would say, which, I don't know, is one fifth of the area of our country, where there is some kind of damage to the economy and thus to all citizens in this area. This is an extremely broad, socially important topic and therefore I propose that a public debate be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, who is rightly absent, and I also ask if the Member would like the Minister's oral or written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Unfortunately, the Minister is absent today, although there have been several health issues in the area of health, namely, the President of the Government, but recently we have been very busy with health care, including UKC Ljubljana, which has also been mentioned several times on the Health Committee, mainly because of the various irregularities that are taking place in UKC Ljubljana, various irregularities in public procurement, non-investment, business problems and so on. While the Minister of Health speaks of all these problems, our health system is good, but we need the right people in the right places. She probably also meant the director of UKC Ljubljana, although we have been in this position under Dr. Simon Vrhunc’s Director for two years or more. Concerned, however, about the last tender procedure that took place in April, you probably learned from the media as a majority of citizens that this invitation to tender was in secret somehow. In fact, if I highlight the problem that the Council of the Institute has been moved from, I will say, more than a public meeting room in the UKC in what the media say, to a library, that the applicants did not want to be disclosed, and that the UKC Council has also agreed with them. The most amazing thing about this is that some of those candidates who have applied for this public function have also hidden their programmes from not only the public, but also from the professional public. So that UKC experts were essentially deprived of the presentation of the programmes, professional colleagues, i.e. doctors, have three representatives in the UKC Council, were voted on, so the programmes of those who applied for the tender were not supported. Some doctors are essentially concerned about why such a way, a secret way of choosing, as if it were the most protected state secret, but in fact it is an important management of one of the public institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What is her opinion on this last invitation from the Director General of UKC Ljubljana? What is the response of the Ministry of Health to these calls, given that the founder of the Republic of Slovenia has 6 representatives in this world? Does the Ministry of Health have an interest in getting a good director of UKC Ljubljana? What activities are they or will they carry out in this direction? But I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you. Ma'am mag. Lilliana Kozlovic will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Welcome ministers, ministers and fellow Members and Members of Parliament, and especially Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar, to whom I also refer today's question. At the meeting of the Government on 16. 4. The implementation of the project entitled Analysis of the performance of public administration functions and the development of instruments for the comparability of public sector entities has been confirmed. The Ministry of Public Administration is responsible for this task. I'd like to ask you if you could explain: What is the subject of this project? What's his timeline, how long will it take? How will he be financed? Above all, I would like to ask you to explain: What are the objectives of this project? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u114	Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, thank you for this question. In fact, the name on which this project was adopted is a little vague, is the most beautiful one we have ever found. This is a continuation of the requirements already arising from the 2012 OECD Communication recommending that we explore how to prevent duplication of functions and improve the efficiency of public sector activities. This is what we have done with this project, which will be carried out this year from June to November. We are still kind of catching the last car of the existing financial perspective, so this is a project from European funds, which we want in the wider public sector, which is 2 000 822 entities to analyse in twelve groups of individual types of operators in order to identify their particular business characteristics. However, for 979 entities, we will already draw up more precisely the criteria, in particular in terms of functionality, which functions are performed in these entities. The objective of this task is to produce indicators on the basis of which we can objectively compare the effectiveness of individual public sector entities. For a narrower part of the functional analysis, the real narrower part of the public sector, we will examine their legal bases, the specific number and structure of the employees, the list of competences, the tasks of the individual entity, and, above all, we will look closely at what support tasks they organise for individual entities, and for all these tasks we will also look at whether these entities carry out them with their own staff, with their own internal resources or with their own internal resources, or with their own outsourcing, this is also particularly important for this analysis. In particular, the functions that we want to look at are staff, legal, general services, financial function, accounting, function, maintenance and cleaning in order to assess the sense of integration, the sense of optimisation on the basis of these functions, and also possible concrete proposals in the area of integration and in this way the optimisation of work in this area. We have quite a few input data that will also be made available to the operator, namely, the budget user register at the beginning of this year, we are using the so-called ISAP system, the payroll system, where it is very clear what employees' incomes are, from the AJPES records we can review revenue and expenditure, we have a central staff record, an annual work report and a number of other reports that are legal bases, and all of which will have to be taken into account by the contractor. In particular, we want to produce five general indicators for the whole public sector on the basis of which we will be able to compare the performance of the entities and, for individual specific organisations, some two to five indicators that are specific, for example, for social work centres, administrative units, schools, kindergartens, public pharmacies, other public institutions. In short, for each of these types of institutions there are some specific indicators that most reflect their performance. Let me just stress that this is how we want to improve rationalisation or prepare the basis for rationalisation. We've already tried to propose some of them, and again and again, with these rationalizations, we're falling into the question of why it's right here with us. Why do you want to change us? With this analysis, we will in some way lay the groundwork for our proposals for rationalisation not to interfere with a particular group, but to be based on some general comparison. This is very important to us. Otherwise, once again, in principle, we agree that change is necessary, but when we propose a concrete change, it is very difficult to get support for it. And it is also very important that we start measuring efficiency in the public sector at the level of the entities, as well as to transfer it later to the level of individuals. We believe that this is an extremely important project, which is also directed by the monitoring group with the representative of the Government Secretariat, the President of the Government and the government's project office. The Ministry of Public Administration here only assumes the task of the contractor, but in fact we want to have control of the entire project outside the Ministry and thus achieve as neutral results as possible. The funds are provided, we expect offers from somewhere ranging from €120 to €150 000, and with European funds we also have a fully covered need to implement this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister and the remaining Government delegation! According to some data, tourism has been growing worldwide for the past six years as a sector. Slovenia could be said to be in some way a sector of untapped opportunities, potentials and that it could contribute significantly more to the gross domestic product and employment of the younger generation in particular, although we cannot say that its share is now negligible. Far from being neglectful. In view of the fact that at the state level only in the field of tourism we have a reorganised Slovenian Tourism Organisation, I can say that we have at a lower level a number of institutions, many organisations, associations, associations that we do not know exactly what they are doing or are primarily unrelated to each other. I'm curious now, Mr. Secretary-General: What is the point or is the results of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation already showing? What do you plan to do at a slightly lower level to develop a comprehensive network of tourism organisations in Slovenia? Then I wonder: Are the European Commission guidelines for the development of the tourism sector being transposed into Slovenian tourism today? If we look at just a few of these guidelines that have been given in recent years, these are the European Strategy for Growth and Jobs in Coastal and Maritime Tourism 2014 and then the implementation and development of a common visa policy to promote growth in 2012 and Europe's first global tourism destination in 2010. I want to know: How much of these guidelines for the development of tourism in Slovenia are essentially comparable to those of the European Union? I also want to know: Do we have a strategy of Slovenian tourism aimed at attracting tourists from a specific area from certain countries? When we look at statistics, we see that there are mainly tourists from the Asian end, although they still dominate the share, of course Italy, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, as well as Russia, but we are becoming more and more interesting for this part as well. And I want to know: Is the promotion of Slovenian tourism also directed to their markets? In view of the euro ratio, could the dollar offer a few more tourists from the US end, given that we can now be slightly more cost-effective than the whole of Europe, and in this way could we take advantage of this opportunity? Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Zdravko Restovalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u118	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Dear Member, thank you for the question. I must say the following that we have adopted a strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism 2012-2016, but that the objectives of this strategy are not being implemented or not being achieved. At the beginning of the adoption of this strategy, we have created the numbers that you have just mentioned, and these numbers are still the same as they were 3 or 4 years ago, so there is an important reason for us to change things in this direction. That we have adopted the legal conditions so far for the re-enforcement of the Slovenian tourism organisation, which is not yet fully independent at this time, but we are in the stage of adopting the organisational rules, so that the WTO will act independently with the middle of this year. It is important that tourism is the potential for us in the strategy to make 3 billion at the end of this period, not 2 billion Euros of foreign tourism, to increase the number of employees by 10,000, but the key problem is that we have not done anything in this period of promotion development to increase the number of foreign tourists. Slovenian tourism can only develop and grow in foreign markets, so within the new Slovenian tourism organisation we will take certain measures to make this possible. But first around the organization. At national level, we have a Slovenian Tourism Organisation, which is currently funded only from the budget and, more or less, has maintained the existing state within SPIRIT so far. At regional level, we have regional destination organisations, 13 of them, one in the establishment. At local level, we have local tourist organisations. The regional and local level is theoretically well organised, but it works differently from how individual regions or local distillations are organized. We have really good cases, and we have areas where these things are a little less organized. The problem is that this local and regional organisation is dependent on funding mainly from local authorities, and I believe here too that we need to take some systemic steps forward. Measures to promote tourism in the near future. The key task of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, this new one, which we have now established in a new way with the law or will also be made active with additional documents, will be the promotion of Slovenia abroad. That's the main task. The second task is to develop products or to take care of the development of Slovenian tourism because tourism matters are changing tremendously, and we must also, in some professional sense, be organised by the State to monitor global trends in this regard. Important progress will have to be made in the accessibility of Slovenia, in all three areas. At the airport, we need to make progress. Some modest steps in this direction are taking place. It's a railway and it's a road. It's embarrassing, let's say we don't have Italy, which is our biggest tourist partner, not a single passenger train connection, not a single airline. You don't believe this, but check it out. It is impossible to take a passenger train from Ljubljana across the border or vice versa. The last issue is the legislative framework, namely the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Host Law and the Regulations on categorisation and accommodation facilities. But I will answer the third part below.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u119	Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko requires a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would also like what you are now running out of time to complement, both with regard to the European Commission's guidelines and those targeted markets. Perhaps this information, which I thought was very interesting, would be that, according to certain market estimates, 21% of the potential tourists from fast-growing markets, where there is some way to see the growth of tourists in our country, give up their travel to Europe precisely because of the visa requirement. So I might want another explanation around this visa requirement. As you yourself said, there is always something new to be done in the area of tourism. As I have said many times, tourism is a story and is actually expected to be something new every year. Therefore, for example, a very quick response from the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, which will be the main one, as you mentioned, which will take care of the promotion of tourism, is extremely important and of course also crucial. So I'd like to request a supplement on these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you. First of all, it's about visa policy. Here, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are working in this direction: we have things set up within the framework of European policy. Visa procedures are simplified for certain areas and will also be introduced in the field of new countries. In any case, we follow the European policy guidelines in this area. Promotion. Approximately 70% will always invest in the markets that are now the core of our breathing in tourism, and here Italy, second in Austria, third in Germany, Croatia, Serbia, Russia. This is 70% of tourism activities. A third that remains is coming and will be in line for those areas that you mentioned, because of the short time, I will only mention that in remote markets we are successfully promoting our part of Europe together with Croatia, where we have in China, India and in Japan, what we call Cro-Slo or Slo-Cro, which are truly properly funded together, because you need to know that the reasons for intercontinental summers are more than just one country's visit, and in this context we are achieving some correct results. I can say, however, that in theory, in the strategy, we take them all into account, we have them written down, but we have not implemented them to a large extent, because we have limited ourselves to the resources available at that time. The key thing I would like to say, however, is that the establishment of the Independent Slovenian Tourist Organisation is the first step in order to take a second step, which is to systematically resolve the financing of national promotion. This first, the budget part we have, the second part we are looking for a way out towards a tourist tax, which, like the Austrians and Croats, we want to devote part to public work promotion, and the third part through the already adopted Gambling Act, which assumes that part of this is used at the national level or with some solution in the direction of tourism membership for contributions to tourist areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you. The minister escaped with an answer. Now Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u124	President, thank you very much for your word. On 12 February, a new peace agreement was concluded in Minsk and a truce was restored. This truce was fragile, but it's still holding. However, in order to normalise the situation, additional steps are needed, particularly on the part of the Kiev Government, which, in accordance with the agreement, has to ensure the effective self-government of the Donetsk and Lugansk authorities, including the right to maintain the peace and order of the local authorities there. The Agreement also requires foreign mercenaries, including members of the National Guard, to leave the territory of Ukraine, namely paramilitary units financed by the pro-Western oligarchs. The success of peace efforts depends largely on the functioning of the European Union. There should certainly be no repetition of the September 2014 mistake when the European Union, together with the United States only a few days after the signing of the first peace agreement in Minsk, tightened sanctions against the Russian Federation, indirectly supporting the so-called anti-terrorist operation of the Kiev military and paramilitary units, which required thousands of lives, mostly civilians. On Friday, he also rounded up the article to Ukraine with hundreds of military instructors, very specifically, 300 U.S. military instructors to train the Ukrainian National Guard. Who this Ukrainian national guard is, we know. Among others, it consists of a private battalion of oligarh Kolomoyskyiga called Azov. This is their symbol, these are their battle colors, which are very clearly modeled by the colors of the Third Reich. However, if such a comparison is not convincing, it may be eloquent enough when the flag of the Azov battalion appeared hand in hand with the emblems of the third Reich and with the NATO flag. What I mean is, if we want the situation in Ukraine to stabilize, to actually open up some possibility of lasting peace, we need to press Kiev, we need to press these, I will not say neo-Nazi, because they are openly, directly Nazi forces. And in this regard, I ask you: When should a decision be taken to extend or abolish sanctions? Will Slovenia vote against extending sanctions to the Russian Federation? In this regard, what assurances were given to Assistant US Foreign Minister Victoria Nuland, who met on 18 March this year with the President of the State and Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs? That's it. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much. First of all, say good-bye! I thank you for your question. As regards the mine agreement concluded on 12 February this year, we can assess that this represents a step forward in the resolution of the Ukrainian crisis. Slovenia is also in the position that this crisis can only be resolved through political dialogue. Of course, all parties must ensure that the mine agreement is fully implemented. This, of course, will not be an easy task. Of this, you yourself have mentioned that the withdrawal of paramilitary groups operating in the Ukrainian territory will be necessary, but of course Ukraine must also carry out its domestic task, particularly in the reform field. In particular, reforms in the area of justice, the fight against corruption, organised crime are expected here. Decentralisation is an important point. We are convinced that only a diplomatic solution is possible, not a military solution, so Slovenia has not defended the military assistance offered to Ukraine, which has been mentioned. We believe that the engagement of instructors cannot contribute to a peaceful solution. Within the framework of the norm group, this is said in a group where they work alongside the French Foreign Minister, the German Foreign Minister and the Russian and Ukrainian Ministers, I think this is the right forum for finding appropriate political solutions. Of course, this is also an important dialogue between Kiev, Lugansk and Donetsk. As far as your questions are concerned, I should say that there has not yet been a debate on the extension or suspension or reduction of economic sanctions, or rather restrictive measures, because they are not only classical economic sanctions, but are on the list of individuals and legal persons who do not have the right to come to EU territory and not have the potential assets they have in the EU. It is true that economic sanctions expire in July, so it is to be expected that, of course, we will address economic sanctions in the world of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In this regard, let me say that Slovenia's position will depend in particular on how the mine agreement is implemented and, of course, also on the situation on the ground. I can say that so far economic sanctions have no significant impact on trade between Slovenia and the Russian Federation. This trade will also be at about $2 billion this year. On 5 May, however, I can learn that the Co-Chairs of the Economic Cooperation Group, Minister Nikiforov, are coming to prepare an agenda for the meeting of the Mixed Economic Commission in Russia. Let me reiterate once again that this is a meeting that is in line and also within the framework of respect for economic sanctions. Will Slovenia vote in favour of extending economic sanctions? Depends on how the mine agreement will be implemented and depending on the situation on the ground. So right now, it's very difficult for me to say how we're going to decide. As for the Assistant US Foreign Minister, I would say the Secretary of State, but I must say that we talked mainly about bilateral relations, about how to increase economic cooperation, and, of course, about how Slovenia views further economic sanctions against the Russian Federation. And I told you that it is crucial for us how the mine deal will be implemented and, in particular, what the situation will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Miha Kordish demands that the answer be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u128	Yes, Madam President, thank you very much for your word. What is the ratio of sanctions against the Russian Federation by implementing an agreement from Minsk? In a very wrong relationship at this point. However, it is assumed that this agreement from Minsk should be implemented in such a way as to press certain sanctions against the Russian Federation. But as I pointed out in my question, the situation is really the other way around. We need to press Kiev. And the European Union has instruments in its hands, it has the opportunity to do something like this. Without further ado. And lifting sanctions against the Russian Federation would be a very strong and very clear signal that Europe or the European Union wants peace in Ukraine to really want it. Because, in fact, sanctions against the Russian Federation are nothing more than silent support for Kiev's hawks. As a result, we are very determined in the United Left that these sanctions are unnecessary in order to be lifted. Some, as I would say, vague answers in terms of, yes, depending on the implementation of the agreement on the ground, depending on how much the mine agreement will be taken into account, are simply not sufficient, Mr Minister, because we have in our hands a diplomatic scissors and canvas to ensure some pressure on Kiev, which would then bring the agreement from Minsk into effect. You mentioned reforms. As regards these reforms to be implemented by Ukraine, among other things, they include a drastic rise in the price of gas for the population to freeze the minimum wage so that 10% of public servants are dismissed. All the while, according to the Stockholm Institute's assessment, the regular army is expected to double its funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you. The answer will be supplemented by Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u130	As far as economic sanctions are concerned, the Slovenian position is clear, namely that sanctions are not intended for themselves. If sanctions do not work, then they make no sense. The purpose of these sanctions is, in particular, to achieve a change in Russian policy, which certainly also affects the situation in Ukraine. However, I fully agree with you that the Ukrainian side must also carry out its domestic task, particularly with regard to reforms. I can say that on the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs, we also host the Ukrainian Foreign Minister several times and that we keep asking him how these reforms are going. And I can also say that the European Union is offering strong expertise in this regard, because it is quite clear that without reforms in Ukraine, the crisis in Ukraine will be very difficult to resolve. As far as economic sanctions are concerned, this will be dealt with by the Council of Foreign Ministers and will then also be a suitable proposal to the European Council, this is the format in which the Heads of State and the Presidents of Government participate. I hope that the situation will be such that we can reduce these economic sanctions, but not to take a step towards Russia, but to take a step towards regulating the Ukrainian crisis and achieving greater stability in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you. Ambassador Miha Kordish wishes to express his request for a debate to be held at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u132	Here. Thank you, Madam President. Yes, I propose that one of the following meetings, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, be held on the subject of the Minister's reply. The situation is very simple, especially in order to resolve the Ukrainian situation, pressure is needed on Kiev, pressure needs to be exerted on the current Ukrainian authorities, currently these and them are similar boys who are implementing anti-fascist policies there. Without this, of course, there will be no peace in Ukraine. And sanctions, which somehow serve as a means of pressure on the Russian Federation, certainly do not contribute to this peace, certainly do not serve to resolve the situation in Ukraine in any way, because the basic logic here is wrong that Russia is the big bad guy that needs to be tamed, and then everything will be fine, while Kiev can sign the bills of exchange for the policies that they are implementing. So I think we need to discuss this answer. Especially because I will refer here to the US Gallup Institute, which is the leading global institution in public opinion research, and this institute around the world is carrying out a U.S. Global Leadership survey, and in the context of this study, people view the role of American leadership as positive or negative, the result it has given to Slovenia is that 52% of respondents do not approve of the functioning of the US administration, as only 26% see it positively, and thus Slovenia is among those European countries that are most dislikable to the United States administration. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that the evaluation of the political leadership of the United States is not their culture, people and so on and that it is a very clear signal that our people, citizens and citizens of Slovenia oppose any form of imperialism, interference in the internal affairs of other countries, whether it is Latin America, the Middle East or the former Soviet Republic. This imperialism is carried out by the United States and other Western countries. Because of their economic and material interests, they support oligarchies, such as Kiev, which shoots its own population. And here, of course, we need a completely different turn in Slovenian foreign policy. The current government does not have an absolute mandate to represent pro-imperialist positions that are diametrically opposed to the anti-imperialist orientation of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u133	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now, Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, who is rightly absent, whether she wants an oral or written reply to the statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The Emergency Medical Regulation should have seen the light of the Council by 1 March of this year, and since it had not been available by then, according to the Minister of Health, it was expected that it would finally be ready by 15. 4. At least that is what the Minister of Health said at the last meeting of the National Assembly. Today we're 20. 4. However, we still do not have this rule. Here I would like to point out that this is an extremely important topic with which, at this time, I could say, the whole of Slovenia is concerned. According to the professional public, the emergency system works well for us. The professional public believes that it is only necessary to complete the construction of ten emergency centres and to upgrade medical care on the periphery. Local authorities, the first mayors, directors of public health institutions and the professional public, have gathered several times at various ends of Slovenia to discuss this topic, according to a number of unknowns. But there is still great secrecy in the preparation of the Rules and the Ministry of Health has not participated in these consultations. According to our data, the draft regulation is still not ready for public hearing, and for the third time today, with an oral question, I am asking the distinguished minister, which is unfortunately not between us: When will the draft emergency medical regulation finally see the light of the world? Has the field section been included in the preparation of the Rules of Procedure in view of the initiative given at the urgent meeting of the Health Committee? Have different geographical characteristics of individual regions been taken into account in the preparation of the Regulation? Is and when is the presentation of the draft Regulation envisaged on the ground? Do the Ministry's professional services already have a time-table to present this regulation? If they don't have it, why don't they have it? Will the Ministry take into account the reasoned comments from the field and include them in the Rules before adoption? Will the Rules be presented to the Health Committee before adoption? I'd like a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec! I must say that I was somehow encouraged by the fact that you are hosting your ministerial colleague this week, I could also say a friend, the French Minister for Foreign Affairs. Look, yesterday, on the Internet, like many times before, a new video of a terrorist organization called the Islamic State, showing how extremists shot and beheaded about 30 Ethiopian Christians in Libya. Similarly, on Thursday, the Italian police arrested fifteen Muslim refugees after sweeping 12 Christians from Ghana and Nigeria on their way to Italy. All 12 were supposed to drown. On 27 March this year, on the website of the French Embassy in the United Kingdom, I saw the news that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Development of the Republic of France, Mr Loron Fabrice, in an interview with the daily La Croix, said that France would submit a proposal that the Security Council of the United Nations should address the issue of increasing persecution of Christians in the Middle East and beyond and that a certain security plan should be adopted. I would like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: What is the position of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue? Will the Republic of Slovenia join or support this initiative? It should be recalled that in 2011 the European Parliament adopted a European Parliament Resolution on the situation of Christians with regard to freedom of religion. You know that the European Union has made a number of strong calls about violence against Christians. It is interesting that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Development of the Republic of France is a socialist, and this initiative has in fact indicated a broad scope of French foreign policy. I am interested, Minister, in the position of the Republic of Slovenia. Will you include this issue in the government meeting and how do you intend to respond to this initiative? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you for asking. It's true, Laurent Fabius is going to visit Slovenia this week. We will have a bilateral meeting and one of these will also be the issue, because in fact minorities are at great risk when we talk about conflict areas, particularly in the wider Middle East. But I would like to mention because I know France very well and because you mentioned that Laurent Fabius is a socialist and that you welcome him for going with this initiative to the Security Council. In France, socialists are religious and also go to church; this is not the same as in Slovenia, so that they do not think that this is unusual. It is true that Laurent Fabius, as chairman of the Security Council, made a proposal to the Security Council on 26 and 27 March this year to open a debate on victims of attacks and exploitation on an ethical or religious basis. I must say that with the crisis in Syria and the appearance of the Islamic State – here I would also like to say that Muslims are very reluctant to hear the Turmin of the Islamic State because they feel affected by it, and rather that we use the word Daesh – the situation of minorities and also Christians has deteriorated dramatically. As a result, France and Laurent Fabius put this into debate and this debate was also held in the Security Council. More than 50 countries participated in this debate, including Slovenia, and we also expressed resentment over the abuse of faith to fuel provocations, as well as in terms of the escalation of religious hatred. This is how Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon decided, on the basis of this debate, to organise a high panel with respectable personalities to discuss in particular how to prevent such phenomena. These are persons considered to be global authorities in the field of knowledge of religious, civil, cultural, academic and business life, particularly in the Middle East region. In the framework of this proposal, Laurent Fabius proposed on 27 March this year that Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon prepare a special document – Charter d'action, which would have various dimensions: humanitarian, military, judicial and political. Humanitarian in particular from this point of view, because the humanitarian situation is catastrophic. What we are looking at now in the Mediterranean is also the result of this catastrophic humanitarian situation, particularly in Syria and Iraq. The military dimension is particularly important because Iraqi security forces are supposed to prevent attacks by the Islamic State or Daesh against minorities. And among them also against Christians as a religious minority and also a coalition, that is the coalition in which we do not participate in that pillar that relates to military activities. The judicial dimension that all those who commit such crimes will be punished because it is actually a genocide is an ethical cleansing. And the political dimension – that is, within diplomatic options, appropriate solutions must be found for political dialogue. Slovenia has actively participated in this debate and expressed the views I have presented to you at this time. What is more, after a bilateral meeting with Laurent Fabius, especially since you are the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, you have ample opportunity to ask questions and open the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr Joseph Horvat has a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your extensive response. If I understand correctly, Slovenia supported this initiative by your colleague Fabius. Of course, also thank you for presenting to the Slovenian public, which I have known for a long time, how French socialists are religiously oriented, that they are mostly Christians. I would be pleased if you would also provide information on the discussions you will also have on this subject with your colleague, Laurent Fabius, on the Foreign Policy Committee and more broadly. Here, Mr. Secretary, I would like to ask you: Are there any patterns of this security plan that might have been adopted? In addition, I am taking the initiative and I think it would be very important and also necessary for you to present to the Slovenian public through a press conference or whatever – I will not give you instructions here. It would be good for you to present to the Slovenian public that Slovenia was here on the side of a French initiative that is simply against the persecution of Christians in the Middle East and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you very much. There is nothing to add, of course I will be happy to inform the public about these matters. The problem is that Daesh is building his strategy on wanting members of other religious minorities to change their religion and become Muslims. Otherwise, their philosophy is that they need to be killed. And because of this, the efforts of the international community, including military operations, to destroy this terrorist country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you. Dr László Göncz will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The area of Slovenian-Hungarian interstate relations is considered to be exemplary and multi-layered and in continuous, continuous upgrades. We can probably all agree on this, but there are certain things where there is a gap. In recent years, questions have been raised by certain institutions on the reasons for the delay in the adoption of the programme of cooperation in education, science and culture between the Ministry of Human Resources of Hungary and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. The content issues on the Slovenian side are the responsibility of the ministries mentioned, but your ministry also participates in the process of receiving them. And in order to be as vague as possible about this, I ask you about the reasons for the relatively long procedures: When can the adoption of that programming document be expected? And the next thing is, last month, I was at the competent minister's office, and then the ministers were sent by an initiative to substantively complement that cooperation programme. I have proposed that, in addition to the content already covered, particular attention should be paid to mutual knowledge and promotion of linguistic, historical, ethnographic and cultural characteristics and other aspects of the neighbouring country or nation. I have justified the initiative, and I also now justify it by stating that, despite the exemplary relations of the two countries and quite a variety of cooperation in certain areas, the actual knowledge of the neighbouring people, namely the Slovenians in Hungary and Hungary in Slovenia, is quite superficial, sometimes stereotyped, but certainly worse than the other neighbours of one and another nation. As exceptions to a certain extent, we can mention areas where both national communities live, which are less or are not valid. Your Ministry's professional service has estimated that the basic agreement somewhere encourages all that I have mentioned; but I am myself and many experts in this field of different opinion. That's why I'm asking you: What do you think of this, or what is the current level of knowledge of another neighbor? I wonder if you can answer here also with regard to the initiative I have put forward that this matter is being upgraded from this very point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much for the question. You have correctly identified the programme of cooperation in education, science and culture, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is only the coordinator. We adopted this programme for the period 2006-2008 and then it was the Hungarian side to prepare a new programme. Unfortunately, it was only this February that we received the first text of a new programme for cooperation in the field of education, science and culture. I must say that we support such programs, even personally. I do not see any problem if, under this programme, particular emphasis is placed on mutual knowledge and promotion of linguistic, historical, ethnographic, cultural and other characteristics of the nation or countries. As far as this is concerned, we can upgrade it in terms of what you suggest. However, I am of the opinion that each such programme should contain all these content. Now I can also say that this programme is in preparation, in particular in the areas mentioned: education, culture. However, I must say that there are a lot of comments here, a lot of coordination. I hope that this programme will be ready as soon as possible, but at this point I do not hope to give you an assessment of when this programme will be ready. I would very much like this to be by June, because then I also have an official bilateral visit to Budapest, and, of course, I would like this programme to be completed by then. Maybe you could even sign it there. That's all I can give you. It is true, as I said, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is only the coordinator; the content is borne in particular by the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Culture. However, we will propose this upgrade, which you are also encouraging.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you. Dr. László Göncz requires a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much, in just one part, or I thank the Minister for the correct answer. Unfortunately, we are aware that there has been a major delay on the Hungarian side as far as this proposal is concerned. Some other nuances have also been mentioned in the brochure, which I will not mention now. The fact is, this has been objectively absent for a long time. I ask you only in the part where we also agree that the content side is the competence of both ministries, i.e. in coordinating certain additions or certain content directly your ministry does not interfere or cooperate; or the external ministry gives only one final form of this programme. I'd only ask so much for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you. The answer will be supplemented by Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u150	In fact, the primary purpose of these programmes is to get to know each other better, and therefore I fully agree with your proposal to upgrade this programme with the content you have proposed. We, as coordinator and as then responsible for the final form of this programme, will propose to the field ministers to complement the programme with these content as well. I don't think the Hungarian side will mind if we upgrade with the content you're proposing. They are in the spirit of what we actually want to achieve with this programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgle will ask the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! Since I have already asked you a similar question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly on the integrity of officials and on the non-compliance with legislation, I do not intend to have a long introduction to these issues today. In line with the question announced in advance, I ask you the following questions: Should an official who does not comply with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and acts corruptly resign from his position? This is my first question and, of course, I demand a short and concise answer. And the second question: Should the official withdraw from his position if he has violated a number of laws, if he has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time violated human rights and if he has not acted in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption? Does such an official have to resign from his position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you. The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent will answer. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, honourable Members Eva Irgle! The answer depends on the circumstances, so let's go first. In the event of a violation of the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, various procedures are laid down for various infringements, on the basis of which it is then determined whether an individual should, in a particular case, withdraw from his or her functions. Sometimes it's political sanctions, sometimes it's criminal sanctions, sometimes it's administrative sanctions. The same is my answer to another question. You will not hear from me that anyone who violates any law should leave a function because it depends on the function and because it depends on the gravity of the breach. If that were the case, today in this House the majority of Members or none of the Members with at least two seats could no longer sit. In the past, this Parliament has adopted a series of laws which have been repealed by the Constitutional Court. Specifically, the government of Janez Janša, ZUJF, has been abolished four times in the Constitutional Court, that we are not talking about the Telecommunications Act and so on. Now all I'm talking about is this government because you asked me. Similarly, for example, it means a violation of the law of wrong parking. It's a violation of the law. Does the official who parked the wrong car have to step down? Should an officer who doesn't accept shipments of the prosecution and the court resign? The question is too wide to answer without a nuance. But I believe you will ask these nuances in your addition to the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgl requires a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, you are always avoiding the exact answers to clearly asked questions. I didn't ask anything like that because you couldn't answer. I asked you if an officer who does not comply with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption can still remain in his position to act corruptly. Of course, I mean Attorney General Zvonk Fischer. However, your response clearly shows that corruption is not a problem for you, although you were formerly the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and today you are the Justice Minister – that is, those who are the first to pursue the objectives of transparency. But corruption is not a problem for you. At the last session, I asked you how you intend to achieve or protect the integrity of the judiciary and the prosecution because of disputed and compromised persons at the top of the judiciary. What did you say to me? You told me you couldn't agree with my finding that a person was compromised at the top of the prosecution. Mr Minister, not only is a person compromised at the top of the prosecution, but there is now a corrupt person at the top of the prosecution. This was proved by the Administrative Court, as the Anti-Corruption Commission said when you led it. That's when you sensed the suspicion of corruption. Finally, the Commission has also said this to prevent corruption under the leadership of Mr Štefanec. And that's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Since Dr. Bell Fisher has not resigned from his position — even if he should — immediately because he acted corruptly — will you immediately request his resignation, and this is a public meeting today? But if he does not resign, will you resign yourself for the protection of the judicial system? They resigned on their own, even though they should be in violation of the legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you. The answer will be complemented by the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Please don't put words in my mouth. I strongly reject what you said, that with the previous answer, I absolutely showed that corruption is not a problem for me. It's malicious tampering, but I understand – the cameras are on. As for the second, I also did not answer you last time that I do not agree that there are no compromised persons at the top of the prosecution. You had a four-minute introduction where you listed a small sea of readings — human rights violations, corruption, violations of laws and so on — to the two leaders, the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney-General. And I said that I couldn't agree with such a flat rate in the submenu itself. However, as for the specific case in connection with the Attorney-General, I think that I am the first step and my attitude towards the findings of the KPK, the decisions of the Administrative Court, the findings of the Supervisory Group of the Ministry of Justice and the Public Sector Inspectorate have shown that I have done what I can a few days after the event. That is, I have requested a report from the President of the State Prosecutor's Council, and then we will see how the process continues. If I were you as a Member, I would also be able to make a statement of value to that effect. However, since I am the Minister of Justice, who has a certain procedural role in the process of possible discharge of the Attorney General, it is only fair, proper and proper for us to wait for the decision of the Council of State and I have initiated the procedure. And that's all I can do right now. If it is, when it is, and if it isn't, the question is, would the onion be onion if it wasn't for "if." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you. Mrs Eva Irgle would like a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Of course, I demand that the discussion be held at the next meeting on the Minister's response, because the Minister has practically not answered any of my questions. It must be explained here that the Attorney General of State, Dr. Zvonko Fischer, acted unlawfully and corruptly. And we haven't invented that in the SDS, although we've been reminding ourselves of that for a long time. In the case of Mr Boštjan Škrlec's employment as Director-General of the Prosecutor's Office, this employment was corrupt and illegal, the Administrative Court further found. Then, too, through the supervision that was done by Dr. Senko Plicanič, the former Justice Minister, found that there had been illegal employment. This was followed by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, led by the Magi. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice today. That's why I expected this case with Dr. Bell Fisher to go faster and that the minister would show his authority and demand the resignation of the Attorney General. The Anti-Corruption Commission, led by Mr Štefanec, also made it clear that corruption had taken place in the event of this employment. The law on integrity and the prevention of corruption states that integrity is expected to operate by individuals and organisations in preventing and eliminating risks so that the authority, function, authority or other decision-making powers are used in contravention of the law, legally permissible objectives or ethical codes. And of course integrity is not only about this definition or just about the current function that someone performs, but it represents the way a particular individual behaves. And here I must say that you have really disappointed me, Mr Minister, because you have not clearly set yourself on transparent matters, that you have not clearly condemned Dr. Bell Fisher's corrupt behaviour, even though we have been discussing this for a long time and have also found that there cannot be a person in such a place who has undoubtedly already violated human rights in the previous system; and today has also done proven corruption. Here, however, I would expect more of your power to avoid such conduct and then to accept responsibility if such conduct occurs. That is why I want the debate to be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In view of the practice of previous years, when the promises of governments and ministers for the construction of the third development axis remained unfulfilled, we are now Korean Members, we Members have now taken a second path. We will more often remind you of our promises. Dear Mr. Secretary! On 25 March this year, during a visit to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Koroška, you presented activities for the construction of the northern part of the third development axis. You have committed to the section between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec this year to start design activities 17.5 km fast and 1.9 km fast connecting road. As I am aware, an environmental consensus procedure is currently under way to be issued this month, following your assurances. The project documentation is expected to be produced by 2018. However, the procedures for land production are to be followed. The beginning of the construction of this section of the third development axis is foreseen in 2019. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What start-up activities have already been carried out by the Ministry or Dars, which is supposed to lead this investment? When can we expect to start designing? Has the environmental agreement for this section been given or can it be expected at any time? I also ask for your answers in writing, because we believe that such products are more durable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, the Minister of Infrastructure, will give you the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished colleague of the Minister! I thank you for the question raised. As already stated at the visit to Koroška, we advocate that procedures and activities on the implementation of the third development axis, in the north and south, are being carried forward. Your question specifically relates to the so-called middle part of the third development axis, in the northern part of Velenje to Slovenj Gradec, where the route is already placed in space and preparations are now being made for the start of the design. If I am more specific about what we have done so far – these design activities are included in the so-called 2015 Dars Concession Implementation Plan, which is just before the formal confirmation at the Ministry and also by the Supervisory Board. Formal conditions will then be established for these activities to be acquired by the design designer for the project and for the acquisition of the building permit. This year, it is envisaged that this award will be awarded and that the design in this section will also begin. This design is expected to take place in 2016 and 2017 and is expected to be completed in 2017. It would then start in parallel with the purchase of land, says 2017, 2018; so that in 2019 the conditions would actually be met when a building permit could be obtained and it could begin with the construction itself. If I still plow this part of environmental consensus, which is also a kind of foundation or project conditions for design with it. This administrative procedure is also run by Dars. The application has already been submitted by Arsa – the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, and an application has been submitted to supplement the application. This addition to the role was already given by Dars. We also expect environmental consensus to be issued in the second half of May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will raise the question to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, in his capacity as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, who has excused his presence. Please state whether you want the President's oral or written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The fact is that Slovenia is a fairly liberalised country and we are either out of line or we have too much legislation practically in all social sub-systems. This is particularly true of education, which has always been subject to – even in past mandates – in the time of Mr Gabra – excessive bureaucracy or excessive standardisation, since everything was practically prescribed at the time. Two days ago, on Friday, one of the principals of primary school was at Odessa, who said that education was governed by about a thousand 200 pages of regulations and that one managing authority, the right principal or council of the school, was unable to perform quality functions because of such a quantity of rules; the educational process was virtually no longer a teaching process, but only the completion of the forms. In 2009, Mr Luksic, the current Minister of Education, set up a working group with a special task of simplifying the procedures in education. This working group was then led by Mr Miro Cerar, and on 15 June 2010, the current Minister Lukšič and the leader of this working group had a press conference, at which it was ensured that by the end of 2010 everything that this working group had found out was enshrined in school legislation, is said in the Education and Education Financing Act and the Basic School Act. But the fact is, probably none of this has happened. None of the findings from 2010 were written or amended by law. Since Mr Cerar has now been Prime Minister of the Government for eight months and has become Minister of Education twice now, we would expect him to write down or ask his ministers to enter into school legislation at least what he found in 2009 and 2010. I intended to ask the President of the Government this question even now that he is again Minister of Education. Unfortunately, I didn't realize that Mr Cerar would apologize. Nevertheless, I want an oral answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you. We received an apology in writing. At the next meeting, the President of the Government will respond orally. Mrs Violeta Tomić now has the floor to ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. To dean jedan, who is excusedly absent. Please indicate in this section whether you want a written or oral answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Since we have one minister here, I will be satisfied with the oral answer. I'm sorry. I'm 2015 A joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food was held in the National Assembly, at which the issue of Kobilar Lipica was addressed at the request of the United Left. At the meeting, Minister Židan and Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Cantarutti, argued that €5.74 million had been collegiately provided for the execution of five urgently needed projects; the contracts were to be signed by the end of February. The Secretary of State even said at the meeting that we should not worry about anything, as these projects will definitely go into effect. In recent weeks, the media have shown that something is happening in Kobilana Lipica; the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent ministries have not yet signed the necessary contracts to finance the projects, despite their promises. That's why I'm asking you: Why have both ministries failed to provide the funds already promised for the most urgent investments? When will the contracts for performing the works be signed? How will you ensure that all five urgently needed investments will be made in Kobilana Lipica? And when will both decisions taken by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of 18 take place? 2. 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u170	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, Ambassador Violet Tomić! I will answer the part of the question that we are responsible for, and for which I can give credible answers, by holding the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology responsible for the market part of Lipica, which is for Lipica Tourism. We cannot speak of the cobalt itself on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture. No one has denied the activity, they are in accordance with the procedures laid down, the application has been submitted by our Ministry for confirmation to the management body and must issue a decision on the approval of the project. After receiving the decision, we will immediately prepare and sign a co-financing agreement with the beneficiary Kobilarn Lipica, which is the basis for drawing on the funds. It is true, however, that we have thoroughly studied the role of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and that I have had to make less bad decisions between the two bad solutions. Why am I saying this? Since this part of the 5 million from the tourist money quota provides for the rehabilitation of the veterinary infirmary and also cases that do not fall within this context; however, I have signed and forwarded this matter to the management authority, because it is impossible to use this money for anything other than what was envisaged this year. But I have a substantive problem with what I've done, because I think that if there was enough time, these things would have to be solved in a different way. Secondly, the beneficiary is responsible for the proper and timely implementation of the investment, namely Kobilna Lipica. It follows from the basic plan on the role itself that the whole investment is expected to be completed by November 2015. In view of the short deadline for implementation, we will also monitor this process at MGRT and encourage the management body process to close this matter as soon as possible. The final part or third part of the question – implementation of the conclusions of the Committee on the Economy. The management plan is being prepared by the managers of the protected area, and we will be involved in this project and will mainly participate in the content related to our area. However, we have no direct impact on when this plan will be sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for confirmation. The second decision of the Committee, since it is only a one-year period for the preparation of the strategy, follows the preparation of the SDH report, in view of the above, that the SDH report is prepared. I believe that, as soon as possible, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will approach the preparation of this required strategy. Once again, I stress that we will only be involved in this matter, but to a greater extent with SDH we are dealing with the issue of the long-term solution of Lipice Turism, which I again believe will have to be somehow linked to Kobilina. Personally, I believe that the solution, which is now a separate solution, which can mean some way of living, but not the long-term development of both parts, although they will be separated; but things must be resolved, further viewed, together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you. Mrs Violeta Tomić demands that the reply be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. I am aware that your ministry is primarily responsible for this part that covers Lipico Turism; and that Kobilna Lipica is the second story covered by Minister Židan. But just as you've figured out, it won't work without each other. At this meeting, we had representatives of SDH, trade unions, the Institute's Council, the Court of Auditors, and they all found that both sectors needed to be developed in parallel. And I want to know: How did you and did you even manage the irregular state of the land register? As we know, these two sectors are interfering with each other. Whether you will consider who and how it will finance any of these sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u173	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u174	The situation is complex because three key issues need to be addressed in the transfer to Lipico Turism, namely, firstly, the question of hotel rental; secondly, the question of golf course rental and thirdly, the question of the investment of Lipice Turism in the building of that facility in this area. But these are things that we must and will solve; although at this point I can only diplomatically say that things are in the process of resolution. I am not satisfied with the speed of what we are doing, but I believe that we will find a solution together in the direction of common marketing everything that is happening in the Lipice area. Even a cobalt plant, which is just one economic facility, uses a market-based approach to its operations. And I believe that we will take one step forward here with Lipica Turism – by upgrading this shared scheme that is now in place and that I believe is not good. To conclude, I would only say that it is crucial for this matter to be found by the people who will take this part; for, if there is, here it is true that it is up to the people who are taking the matter, where it will go. We, on the part of the State, can only create conditions and promote the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor. Since Dr. Dusan Maramor is absent, please identify yourself to the way you respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u176	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I am asking the Minister of Finance a question regarding the management of state property, which will be a very short question. When will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia send to the National Assembly a classification of investments and a strategy for managing investments in state assets? This should happen already in July 2014 under the Slovenian State Holding Act. In the SDS Group we were presented by representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Some promise about a month ago was that it should also be sent in early April. The month of April is now slowly ending, we do not have a classification in the National Assembly, nor a strategy for the management of state property; a similar story or similar story is with the candidates for the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. On the other hand, we see that these are probably not the most positive signals for the privatisation process itself, which is taking place at a given time. The privatisation of more than ten investments, which the Consent gave to the National Assembly in June 2013. I think that we deserve respect for this law and that the classification and management strategy would come to the National Assembly as soon as possible. I think that more of these questions have already been given, some of the promises made by the Government of Mir Cerar have always been made, but it has not been achieved. The Slovenian state holding company is still without a supervisory board. The Slovenian State Holding is still without a classification of investments and the Slovenian State Holding is without a strategy for managing capital investments. I think these are very negative consequences, so I would like the Minister for Finance's written reply when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will send a proposal for a classification of investments and a strategy for the management of state assets to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u178	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Mr. Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues! The oral question to the Minister is about measures to rationalise the functioning of the state administration, a question that relates to two areas. The first question relates to public procurement, which, with the amendment of the Law on State Administration, has moved from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Public Administration. As already announced, at the Ministry of Public Administration you are preparing a new law on public procurement following Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26. 2. 2014 on public procurement and Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26. 2. 2014 on the public procurement of contracting entities operating in the water, energy and transport sectors and the postal services sector. I want to know: At what stage is the preparation of a new public procurement regulation? What effects are expected from the contracting authorities and the tenderers? Can we expect shorter deadlines for the implementation of procedures and the implementation of public procurement? Are there any changes planned regarding complaint procedures and the legal protection of tenderers that should be more effective? Will the new law bring greater transparency in public procurement? With regard to public procurement, I would like to ask: What concrete work has been done in this area? I am further interested in information on the planned reorganisation of IT in the state administration. Minister, at your presentation, when you were still a candidate for Minister, you stressed and spoke about plans to unite, unify or centralise information technology in the state administration. That's why I want to know: Is there anything moving in this area? What has already been done? What's the timer? Has your ministry encountered any obstacles in terms of how the reorganisation or rationalisation of information technology will affect information companies? What are the financial effects planned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! As you know, we are looking for ways to rationalise, but at the same time it does not mean to reduce the effectiveness of certain functions. Such cases are also more effective procurement and IT. With regard to the new law, this is in the final phase. It was just this morning that we confirmed to the College that it was going to a public debate. This means that he will be in public debate by the end of this month with a 30-day deadline. However, we have prepared it up to this stage in cooperation with a number of stakeholders, including the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce. We have coordinated it coalitionly and received dozens of proposals that we have already taken into account in the preparation of this text, which is now going to a public debate. This new legislation will also progressively implement electronic public procurement. In two years it will become mandatory, so the deadlines will be further reduced. The selection criteria based on the price-quality ratio will be used more frequently; and not only on the basis of the lowest price at the time of the broadcast, because they have often proved to be harmful. We encourage the procurement of innovative, environmental and socially acceptable contracts; therefore, this is already used in the law as criteria to be taken into account in the evaluation of contracts. Greater market access to public procurement is opened by this law to small and medium-sized enterprises, as orders are required to be broken down. Rather, it should be explained that the contract is not broken down into special forms, and not quite the other way around, as is now the case for small businesses. Direct business or procurement between public entities is changing, meaning that between two public entities they can agree to perform a function in a simpler way. It is more flexible to use negotiations that we consider to be one of the most effective. The whole public procurement system also includes the so-called social horizontal clause, not only anti-corruption clause, which means that even if contracting entities do not comply with or fail to comply with social criteria or violate social criteria during the performance of the contract, that is to say that there is a sufficient reason not to award the contract or that the contract itself will be terminated later. There may be some news that the open procedure will require verification of compliance with the conditions only for the successful tenderer and not for all those who have submitted, which significantly reduces the procedures. Simplification remains a low-value order below the threshold. We now call it a low-value order, but this process will also be very transparent. However, we allow greater flexibility in paying subcontractors, in such a way that, at the time of the contract, subcontractors can determine whether they want to be paid directly across the chain, not just the first subcontractor; or whether they trust the contractor that they will also assume obligations to them. In this way, let us save the entire chain of subcontractors and not just the first one as it has been so far. As it is said, the condition is not only that the supplier has paid taxes, but is also a condition that all social obligations are settled. However, with regard to the regulation of legal protection, I must say that this is not the subject of this law, otherwise we plan to rewind this area further, but this law does not also regulate legal protection, which is once regulated by the State Audit Commission. As soon as this law goes on its path of adoption, we also go to legal protection legislation. However, transparency is also increasing because contracting authorities will publish not only awarded contracts but also concluded contracts, and in this way it will be possible for all to make contracts such as these publicly available. For the first time, however, we are also dealing with health care, three public contracts. The government had already adopted a decision in early March to purchase medicines, medical devices, diapers, gloves, needles, dilation material and catheter. This order will be binding on all hospitals, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, which is already in preparation for the first order, collecting needs. For a short time, there may be an area of information. The state computer cloud is being established. Practically all major orders, other than two finals for the purchase of hardware and software parts, have already been delivered or are under way, are being renewed by HKOM, the central network. The exact financial plan will be published or presented at the end of May. However, we have already had a lot of cooperation and also a shift to consolidate staff. Just last week, we did an information day for the IT staff. However, with regard to the very attitude towards information firms, we must find that the relationship between information companies and this joint project has changed greatly and is strongly supported. We have invested a lot of energy in communication with these companies, and today we find that they are very consolidated in their approach to this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. To dean jedan, who is excusedly absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! One of the farmers who calculated his pension turned to me, concerned that there were many such cases in Slovenia. He has already turned to the court once in the determination of a disability, and now in the calculation of a pension. And he says that there is probably still a lot of these cases in Slovenia and that some farmers are wrongly accounted for. This is my question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, because I should take care of farmers. Under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, adopted in 1983, Official Journal of the SRS No. 27/1983, they could be protected as joint farmers. This status is governed by the rules on the integration of farmers, for the full pension period, to the extent that workers in the combined work. Other farmers and members of their holdings who were engaged in agricultural activities in Slovenia as their sole and principal profession could also be insured. Among the other farmers insured under Article 11 of the Act were those who paid the same amount of insurance contributions as the combined farmers, but now the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance grants them fewer insurance rights than they would have been insured for the full amount of insurance rights. Some insurers have appealed to a court which has granted their application and has recognised the full scope of the insurance rights because they have also paid full contributions. I'm asking you: Why does the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance not recognise the same amount of insurance rights to those farmers who paid the same amount of contributions as the combined farmers? What measures will the competent ministers take to eliminate such discrimination?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u184	Dear Vice President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. With regard to the issue addressed to me, first of all, I would like to clarify that the issue is not clearly defined or that it is not defined what results in unequal treatment of individual insurers engaged in an agricultural activity. It should also be clarified that we are not familiar with the case law referred to in the question at the Ministry. The problem you have mentioned relates to two different categories of insurance-farmers. The first farmers who did not have the status of a united farmer were insured under Article 11 of the 1983 ZPIZ only for a narrower scope of rights, irrespective of the level of the insured base from which they were insured of their own choosing; and irrespective of the amount of the contribution paid. So for a narrower range of rights. For these farmers, it has been stipulated that because of the lower level of insurance they do not have a certain right; for example: they do not have the right to a pension from the lowest pension base, to a pension and to a pension, to an early retirement pension, to a partial pension, to rights based on the second and third categories of disability, to a disability, to an allowance for assistance and service, and to an allowance for the recreation of pensioners. However, the second category of insurance-farms insured under Article 10 of the 1983 ZPIZ combined farmers paid contributions either for a smaller or for a wider scope. For the 1992 PIZ, a limit amount has been set to allow individuals to be insured either for a narrower or for a wider scope. This also ensured the continuity of the 1983 regulation. The above-mentioned legal material was regulated through the amendments of PIZ-1, ZPIZ-2 by allowing continuity of regulations in 1983. It follows from the above that it is possible for individual insurers to be included in pension insurance for a narrower or wider scope under this Title, as well as, of course, a different range of entitlements. Although the law can provide for a different way of taking account of the scope of rights, it is possible only to move forward. However, the rules applicable at the time when the insurance period has been completed shall apply to the recognition of the dosage of entitlements during the current period for the assessment of the scope of entitlements. If someone has paid from 83 to 86 for a narrower scale, then he is now considered when he retires, but this is the relationship. However, he could have made a different decision in 1992 and, if he was within this category, he could have decided whether to pay for a narrower or wider scale. If he has since continued to pay for a wider scale, he shall therefore be assessed according to the wider scope of these rights. So the logic is, if I've paid for a smaller one, I have a narrower scale; if I've paid for a wider one, I have a wider scale. And within this category, there were differences under Articles 10 and 11, because this is essentially the same category. It follows from the above that we cannot talk about discrimination, since for all insurance undertakings engaged in an agricultural activity which were included in insurance under previous rules, the same arrangements are maintained under the ZPIZ-2 even before that, even in the new regime. So it is not, in fact, because we are talking about discrimination when we are dealing in some way with the same situations differently. Here, if anyone chooses to protect himself for a narrower range, he is insured for a narrower range. Of course, it follows that it also has a limited range of rights, which were defined at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Are you requesting a follow-up, Mr. Zvonko Lah?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u186	I guess I'll have to fill out the question, and then I'll expect a full answer. I'll tell you what. Father and son were insured on a certain farm. My father was a united farmer, my son could only be another farmer. Both paid the same contributions, the same amount of contributions. And the owner of the farm could only have been a united farmer. Then he took over his son's farm. Finally, when exercising his right to disability, he was acknowledged that in those years, because he was not a united farmer, he paid only for a narrower scope of rights, although the amount of contributions was the same as that of his father who paid for a wider scale because he was a united farmer. And since these rights were not granted to him, since the period is then accounted for by the majority part of the payment of these rights, he was not granted these few years when he paid as much as his father for a wider scale. But he was not recognized for a wider scope, but only for a narrower scope, even though they paid the same. The Court then recognised to him, depending on the level of the contributions, a wider scope for that period. And in this case, if he had been recognised in the calculation of his pension, this part, when he paid as much as his father paid for a wider scale, would have been more than half the rights for a wider scale and would have been about 100 euros higher. Because that's how we settle our pension. And he is confident that he will achieve this in court, as he has already done in a disability, so he believes that there is no fair settlement here and that there should be a legal solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u188	I'm probably having a hard time going back 25 years ago fixing all the injustices in this country if it's even an injustice. At the beginning of the answer, I said I didn't know any court practice. Now you've said it's the right to a disability, not a contribution. I said in response, yes, that the first farmers who did not have the status of a united farmer could have been guaranteed only for a narrower scope of rights, while the others could. As a result, however, since 1992, this arrangement has been open to them to decide whether or not to do so. And then the logic of this continued in the following laws, if I say so, according to novels or amendments to the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance – and that was the logic. In fact, from 1983 to 1992, so in another system, in another country it was arranged as it was arranged. Now it's hard for me to comment so much back. The fact is that they did not have full-scale insurance options at the time; they had limited rights regardless of the amount of insurance they paid. If there will be case law and when it proves to be, we will examine it and see what it can do if anything has to change for so long. I do not know a concrete case, but I find it more difficult to comment on it; it is also legal that this different practice was then taken into account in further legal solutions, with farmers having the opportunity to choose between a larger or wider scale; whereas in this case, you are referring to it, in 1983, they did not actually have this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u190	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to have a broader debate on this, although I doubt that this will happen. But I will use this time to further explain the matter. Now these people who were paying up at the time are retiring. Now they're clearing their pensions. It's not about any change in back. Since that year, that period, as you yourself said, has not been possible for other farmers to be protected by a wider scope. Although they also paid contributions to a wider extent, they are not recognised. And here's the guilt. In the case of the same criteria for the determination of invalidity, the Court took into account the fact that only the amount of the payment of the contributions was taken into account; not whether he was a united farmer — because only one on the farm was a united farmer and the other could be a second farmer — that the injustice was committed here. However, it can now be seen in the payment of pensions, and it can also be €100 per month. That is why I think that this should be regulated by law, but not by waiting for every individual in court to prove this right to come to this right. This isn't back because the pension is now being billed. I think that the marriage was as good as if you were in a party, you'll have a hundred Euros higher pension; but if you weren't in a party, then you won't have a hundred Euros. Since the united farmer and the other farmer could only be one united farmer, although they both paid, both were the only activity on the farm, they both gave money for tractors. He also has a signed contract with a cattle buy-in company, yet the latter is now being punished by receiving 100 euros less pension than his father, who was the master at the time. I think that this injustice should be rectified by a small amendment to the law before people have yet to prove this right in court. Legal practice is in the case of invalidity, this gentleman is now seeking a pension right because he has given two calculations to do. On one unit he was calculated a hundred euros less than on the other; on one unit he was given the contributions paid; on the other unit, he was given the provisions of the 1983 law, from another country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We will discuss your proposal tomorrow, 21 April 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mr Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u192	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns the distinguished Minister of Public Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Because all too often we face a difficult financial situation in our country, because the country has various ministries, many of its facilities, which are empty; on the other hand, the Republic of Slovenia has many private contracts, for the Tax Office, for the geodesic service, for various services in the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What are these contracts if these contracts "sit"? I'm afraid these contracts, which of course were not concluded during your term of office, have already been concluded. I want to know: What are these rents? I have a feeling that these rents are essentially too high. On the other hand, I am interested in the fact that it also sometimes happens that one of the ministries in one of the municipalities has its premises, and in the immediate vicinity it has contracts with the private sector and there are all those services in that facility. My question, Madam Minister, concerns that we may save a lot of money in this area. I want to know: What are these contracts, how many are these contracts, and what is the amount of contracts concluded? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you, Presidents; Members and Members! Thank you for this question, because it also applies to the area which personally makes me very sad and is one of the key projects we are implementing in the area of centralisation. This time we are talking about centralisation of real estate management. We have just confirmed in early April the government's launch laboratory, which we have been preparing for three months so far. To a large extent, we also relied on those projects that had already been prepared two years ago to establish a so-called real estate management fund. We also find that there are large differences in rent costs. If you want to illustrate, we find that the cost of hiring for comparable offices per month ranges from 150 euros to over 1,000 500 euros; it is said that there are enormous differences. However, the Ministry of Public Administration does not have an insight into these contracts, but does not conclude these contracts, nor do we have a formal basis for the decision of the Government in April to keep the actual records. Although we have already established the so-called APL app and we call on real estate managers to record the data that we have at least some grave inspection. Following the decision of the Government, this monitoring of the rentals of premises has now become mandatory. But we still have no view of the contracts. In fact, this elaboratory of the real estate centralisation project is intended to be up to 1. 2. 2017 translates the management of state authorities’ properties – so-called ministries, bodies in the composition, government services, administrative units and indirect budgetary users, as determined by the government – into joint management. And what you have mentioned is that there is an empty facility somewhere and it is leased – so we also want to encourage the so-called internal market through this centralisation project, so that we can make maximum use of those objects that are actually available to us. However, with some empty facilities, even in Ljubljana we have two large ones, it is necessary to know that these are mostly facilities that require comprehensive renovations and investments to be used. And already in 2015 we are planning some renovations and relocations, but also some in the framework of energy and other comprehensive rehabilitation. However, there are facilities that the state rents in private if you only want to compare in square meters, 142 thousand square meters; the buildings it rents in public entities are little less than 59 thousand square meters; all the areas that the state provides to these authorities are said to be owned by those whose ownership is slightly less than 674 thousand square meters. There's still a large majority of the objects we own. In addition, let us compare the rental of thousands of parking spaces with public and private providers, while we provide 23,000 parking spaces with our own property. It is also necessary to know that we give EUR 85,000 per month for rents, both public and private, and that we give 27 000 per month for private rents. It's a number that's not even that big; but when we start counting, it still gets bigger. At the same time, we give almost a million 900 000 euros a month to maintain buildings owned by the state. These are just some of the numbers, so much easier to imagine how big this rent is. Otherwise it is important, but it is significantly smaller than the maintenance of its own areas provided by the State. Maybe even with respect to contracts. We've already encouraged the tenants to overwind the contracts. Now that this centralisation project has been confirmed, we will also inform all tenants of what the prices they achieve compared to the average; in order to encourage them to renegotiate. The following week, however, we expect the government to approve the so-called migration plan, where we will try to pursue the goal that authorities act as homogeneous as possible and that at least for these new ministries, accommodations will be arranged as soon as possible by maximising the use of the country's premises and also ensuring that ministries operate as much as possible at one location and are not destroyed as is happening today, sometimes at more than ten locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you, Your Honor, for your answer. Above all, thank you for what you have done, activities in this area. As I mentioned earlier, this is not your area where you signed contracts. I have to say that I was in two municipalities in Slovenia and when people show me an object that is not as big, where it pays 15,000 euros a month. When you look at an older object, you multiply and see how much a new building costs today, and when you multiply it by 15,000 euros, it's almost 200,000 euros a year. Of course, the question arises that there is probably another rabbit in this contract that jumps elsewhere. In another congregation, where I was, I was shown an object owned by the state, and a contract with the Ministry was made 150 meters away. Mr. Secretary, as a layman, I'm sure that in this area, this clock would be repaid if it were quick. I know the process is difficult, it's scattered across several branches in the country. If we hurry here, I think it's a good idea, and I think it could have happened that we would have made a lot of noise in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u198	I hope you'll understand that there are 2,000 400 facilities in the country and the organs in the compound alone. We don't count local community facilities here, which are still essential. During last year, eight million transfers were made between the local community and the country which largely regulated these relations that you are talking about. We still have quite a few of these cases going on. But there are also some such cases where empty objects are and could be used. I don't know if we're talking about the same thing because I don't know the specifics, but we have a problem with, like, irregular ownership relationships and things like that. After the project we planned – and planned very carefully and now we are taking responsibility for its implementation – in two years, this huge amount of facilities, including leases and everything related to them, will have to be introduced into a single transparent central register and will thus solve one major problem. Not to keep me completely definitive for the number, but for all rentals, costs, maintenance, everything the state pays, we pay about 5 million; 4 million 900 per month. So much is the actual cost of everything we have with real estate – rented, state, private, own and so on. There's quite a lot of room here for savings, and we want to do it in a row, in which we can see for ourselves that the costs are enormously high. This is where we have to go to check contracts. However, if it is not possible to change contracts that are actually signed, we will go looking for alternative locations; and this has already happened in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you, Minister, for your second part of the answer. I would also like to take advantage of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and propose that this issue, which I believe can be saved by the State, be discussed at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Your procedural proposal will be decided tomorrow, 21 April. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. To Diane jedan, who's gone. Please identify yourself to the way in which the answer is made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Greetings, Minister! I'd like to ask Mr. Jew about the Leipzig case. This is one of our five biggest – economic, cultural, not to speak the tourist pearl. Why do I ask that? In February we had an extraordinary meeting about Lipica, where we learned certain things that were worrying. Since the Ministry of Agriculture is one of the main custodians of the operation and operation of the public service, this is a matter on the spot. First of all, I want to know: Has there been any change at this time? Above all, in terms of organisation, I am not talking about organisation of work and responsibility. I'm specifically interested in: Who actually runs sales and advertising in a public institution, and how is this done? Unfortunately, Lipica Turizm went to SDH and her fate is far from clear. That's why there's only a Lipica public office. The Ministry of Agriculture, apart from the Ministry of Agriculture, is not known for its role in the public service of Lipica, first of all. Is it actually possible for this to be transferred to one ministry that will really be responsible for this operation? Why do we not have one well - known person in the supervisory world who will actually be responsible for the situation? We also do not know about the report of the public agency for 2014 – neither for Lipica Turism nor for the public institution. One of the key issues that was raised by the Committee on Agriculture and the economy that we had with regard to Lipica was that it was not clear who was the manager of all properties. That's what I'm interested in: What properties does the public agency actually have, and what can it do with them? And like I said, for the record, there's a lot of grandmas, and she's got a bald kid. I would really like to see a happy ending from this long-lasting sad story, which stems from our Lipica, by clearly identifying who is responsible, responsible and how. But I wish [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, if I asked you what I was going to ask you a week ago, I would probably have hit for the first time in three attempts. That makes sense, too. And as for the Commission's decision to prevent corruption, which is essentially your decision, and Mr Štefanec's signatory, in relation to Mr Fischer's corruption, could say the following. In fact, you've already answered my colleague Eva Irgle. I think we can get this question out of the way a little bit better than you did before, because it doesn't take any nerve, at least I don't think. But there's something about it. See, the Slovenian media public, also political, with you, if you say so, has responded — when? When Mr Štefanec signed that remarkable report in which he said that Mr Fisher, the Attorney General, acted corruptly. However, when in December 2012, this meant practically two years and more ago, the Administrative Court said definitively and truly definitively that these two gentlemen, Fisher and Zalar, had abused power and acted unlawfully, but no one did. Although, in my opinion, the Commission's report on preventing corruption is less important than the Administrative Court's judgment. The Administrative Court’s judgment, based on all legal standards and so on, the possibility of complaints has long expired, said that two officials — one still at the head of the prosecution today, if you like, and the former minister — acted unlawfully and abused the authority. And "nothing." Nothing, nothing. Even your predecessor didn't react to anything, the State Attorney's Council didn't react to anything, nobody did anything. Now that he has come, I think, also an important document, this is a Commission document to prevent corruption, which says he has acted corruptly, in the same matter of course, but in the country it is a hallo. This means one way — what? Should we accept the Commission to a greater extent to prevent corruption, or how? And we don't accept the courts. And I don't think that's the same thing. You have already said in Mrs Irgle's reply that you have done what needs to be done. I even have to agree in some way. Why? Because at this stage, you don't even have any other options than to wait for the decision of the State Prosecutor's Council. However, the State Prosecutor's Council shows all signs of a serious illness. By the way, he's taking everything in the direction that nothing's going to happen. I'm asking you: What's next and how? More then in the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable Members and Members of Parliament, colleague and Member of Parliament Dr. Gorenak in particular! Since you're running out of time for the question, we'll probably be next. As I said before, the procedure is prescribed, whatever it is. We also know how this procedure came into law. As a result of some other ad person trying. It is only with the amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act 2011 that a completely different procedure has been introduced to determine the responsibilities of the Attorney General as it has been in the past. Even when I went to see the amendments to the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which you were preparing at the time at the Ministry of the Interior, when you led it, and when the Special Directorate of Public Prosecutions was placed under this Ministry, you wrote among the basic provisions of the law that the law is aimed at further strengthening the autonomy of the choice and discharge of the heads of state prosecutors and also of the Attorney General's Office. If I answer, if I try to guess what you said – how do I proceed? Firstly, I am grateful for your intellectual and other honesty when you said that I did everything I could right now. I also believe that you understand that until any decision is made, I cannot pronounce myself in advance of the State Prosecutor's Council. And I won't, then what? Personally, I am very reluctant to change laws in Slovenia because of a specific person. I believe that such an arrangement, whereby an autonomous expert body decides on possible grounds for discharge, is good and that it is not only left to the Government as a political body and to the National Assembly – last but also to the political body. But there's something else I'd like to say, and I don't think it's critical. You said that a decision of the Administrative Court was taken in December 2012. At the time, you were the minister, the minister responsible for the prosecution. Then we could have done the same thing I've done. We could request the President of the Council of State to prepare a report on this matter. This was not done by you, it was not done by your successor, Mr Pličanič, after the prosecution passed back to the Ministry of Justice. And I couldn't do it dry if we were to say it, but I did it after the third decision came. I think the matter is serious enough to be declared by the State Prosecutor's Council. How it will and what then, is another question that we can now only hypothetically identify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Let me fill you in first. You were a little under the influence of the media right now, I think. In fact, that ad persona in 2011 doesn't hold. Last time one of the reporters tried to convince me that we supported this marriage. We didn't support that marriage in any way. And another matter, if there was anything going on with the ad persona, would probably have kept Minister Zalar with him the possibility of proposing a solution then to Mrs Brezigareva. This part's not right. Neither do I. Of course, I find it difficult to say what the State Prosecutor's Council will do. I also understand you, as Minister, that you will not speak in advance of what and how. But something, I'm sure if he doesn't get some kind of informal acceleration, the left-wing political option knows better than the right-hand side, because we know the State Prosecutor's Council won't do anything. Then we will have at the top of the prosecution a person who has proved to be corrupt. And I'm sure, Minister, that you must go, that's my opinion that you must go with the law. This is with the law that will bring back that article that was already in law by 2011. In fact, you can propose to the Government — after obtaining the opinion of the State Prosecutor’s Council — such a solution. I'm sure you need this article. I can even tell you in front of the cameras, this article makes sense. But if the coalition accidentally rejects it and deprives you of the possibility of proposing a solution, then I am sure that the coalition with you will be worth it, for me, from that moment forward, responsible for the fact that we have what we have. So, the corrupt prosecutor at the top of the D.A.'s office. So I don't know what the view of this part is, because I think, given today's writing of the media in Patria, that we already have the next question on the table ready if that holds what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The mag will answer. Goran Klemenčich. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The questions sent on the subject of justice will never run out. I say, the questions sent on the subject of justice, I believe that will never be gone. How justified it will be, and how little for the hair attracted. Oh, yeah. My answer will be the same to the previous one. Until the decision of the State Prosecutor's Council on this matter, I will not express myself, but I will give you the principled view that I think it would be very controversial — no matter what institution it is — to change any law, because someone would think that someone should be replaced. And that's what you can think, the National Assembly to me, the President of the Government, that's what I think, the Minister of Justice. I'm not saying we feel that way, but what I'm saying is that for this to change the law, a very dangerous practice is being created. But I think we're all getting ahead of ourselves. Let's wait for what happens. However, I still believe that the State Prosecutor's Council will make a relatively quick decision, whatever it may be, and will also have to take responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u212	Thank you. I think it would be a worse decision than a marriage if we didn't do anything, because then we'd have what I said before – a corrupt person at the top of the prosecution. I propose, Vice-President, that regardless of the Minister's response, which is what it is – my assessment is that the National Assembly must discuss what has happened or what we have in the High Prosecutor's Office, because this debate will in any case be held, it is clear as a white day, only the question under which the article will be conducted. This is another story, and it depends on the coalition and its vote tomorrow whether we do this sooner or later. However, it would be good if we did it first, in the end, to give a political response to the situation that we have, it is said to give a political response to what is said to be Slovenia's top of the prosecution as the only country in the world that has acted in a tangible way corrupt. Tomorrow I will also ask Members for their support, because it seems necessary to do so sooner than later. The more we put it down, the more it hurts. In short, I propose a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister for Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is excusedly absent, so I ask that you also define yourself to the way in which the answer is addressed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, the representative of the government! Of course, I'd like a written answer. I ask the Minister of Finance: How and to what extent are the financial interests of the State secured, and in particular the New Credit Bank of Maribor, d. d., legal entities and natural persons in the divestment proceedings of this bank? And let me get this straight. We have recently witnessed many different information, sometimes even conflicting, but not rejected or confirmed. Two legal entities, two legal entities, one fund and one bank are interested in entering the ownership of NKBM. Secondly, one of the potential buyers withdraws. Thirdly, here comes a new offer, a new fund again. I will not go into what these potential stakeholders are like to enter into the share or full ownership of the New Maribor Credit Bank, but above all I want to make it clear that it is crystal clear that I am not rooting for any of the potential providers interested in purchasing the New Maribor Credit Bank. But I'm telling you, NKBM isn't like that. For the north-east of the country, its inhabitants and the company, as well as the committees, NKBM is crucial. It is also crucial that the ownership of the bank does not come into the hands of speculative capital, but rather of a serious institutional and development-oriented investor. NKBM is one of the most important institutions in the Styria region as well as wider. It can't be sold too cheap. That's why there's no rush. In my firm opinion, it is necessary to examine in very detail the offers of all, I stress, of all potential buyers, and to take into account the fact that there is a significantly better position for the seller in terms of reaching the highest price at a time when the number of buyers is higher. In addition, we all know that when a wide variety of intermediaries appear, a wide variety of advisory and pear agencies living from the commission of business are going in the wrong direction. However, it is often heard that way, even in the case of NKBM, uncompromisingly and aggressively, if not brutally, it puts pressure on decision makers. Let me finish because time makes me feel better. As a result, this means that there will be no development of the wider region, that the financial interests of the country will be questioned. Therefore, once again, I warn the competent, there is no rush, time must be taken and the best possible solution for such or otherwise disposal of the bank must be chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u215	Thank you very much. You'll get a written answer. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, and a nice greeting to the distinguished minister as well! I ask the distinguished minister: How is the remuneration service in water and coastal land owned by the State arranged after the adoption of the Act on measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities? I ask this question because Article 23 of this Law, which was adopted in February of this year, states: "The establishment of service on the property of the State for the benefit of self-government local communities or the establishment of service on the immovable property of self-government local communities for the benefit of the State is free of charge if the service is established for the purpose of the construction or maintenance of economic public infrastructure." End of quote. This is of interest to me because, despite the adopted Law on the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities, certain local communities have been given the signing of a service contract, clearly with payment. These contracts relate all matters to coastal and coastal lands, which are just like the rest of the land owned by the State. The interpretation of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which will preside over these local communities, speaks of the fact that this amendment to the Law on the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities does not apply to water and coastal land. Now I want to know: Is that true or how they can claim it? The law is clear in Article 23 and does not distinguish between any land, but it speaks only of land owned by the Republic of Slovenia, because the decision I have before me, which is one of those which has been forwarded to me, speaks of compensation being determined in accordance with the Regulation on the methodology for determining compensation for service on water and coastal land owned by the Republic of Slovenia. If we read the law, this service should also be as unpaid as for all other state land in cases where local communities build plumbing, sewerage and similar things. I have this decision before me, perhaps the Minister has it, and I would like to hear an interpretation: Why, though, is the service charged in these cases? Local communities were thus promised that these additional costs arising were in some way eliminated as compensation [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Chief and some other stuff.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you, Sir Primoz Hainz. Mr Daniel Krivec, honourable Member, thank you for the question. The Act on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities in this Article 23, which you cited, does not address the issue of the payment of services on water and coastal land owned by the State under which we operate at the Ministry of Environment and Space. In fact, the establishment of service or building rights on water and coastal land is governed by the Water Act, Article 21, paragraph 9, explicitly states that "the establishment of real service on water or coastal land in the management of the Ministry shall not be subject to the rules on the availability of state property". In contact with representatives of the Community, Community and municipal municipalities, we have already presented these things at the beginning of these meetings, where individual solutions have been entered into by the ZUJF, so that at least the representatives who participated in these negotiations, as I will now continue to talk about, are aware that this inter-departmental coordination has made it clear that services and building rights must remain in the water and coastal areas. So, the reasons that led to this resolution. This is European Union legislation, water quality protection and, in principle, the burden-bearing agent is paying for the provision of a hydrological regime in the water and coastal area, where facilities which are not necessarily bound to this area do not belong. Water and coastal land owned by the State are attractive for easier service acquisition than for other land owned, for example, by natural persons. Even for the construction of water infrastructure, the country pays for land services in, say, municipalities, of course in natural persons. After the process of establishing the service is routine and fast, the amount of payments for the service has already been reduced and certain exceptions have already been made. It makes sense that for objects crossing watercourses, these are bridges, passes, eyebrows, access, service, building rights, charged symbolically. The derogation from the principle of repayment can only be provided for individual facilities as an exception to the general rule, namely those which are necessarily connected to water and coastal space. As we have predicted, the issue will be regulated by a sub-legislative regulation of the Regulations on the methodology for determining compensation for services on water and coastal land owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the deadline for adoption is June 2015. It is a practice that the burden of water and coastal land by the construction of watercourse-crossing facilities is also conferred on the building right and not on the service right, and therefore this issue must be addressed by means of a sub-legislative regulation setting out a methodology for determining compensation for building rights and other practices. We're already preparing the Water Act. This is a novelty where we have foreseen the legal basis for the exemption from the Real Estate Act of the State and the local communities of building rights on water and coastal land and other treatment of these land. At the same time, we are preparing a regulation setting out a methodology for determining compensation for building rights and other management of water and coastal land in the management of the Ministry. The draft Regulation should be annexed to the Water Act. This is the latest when the law is submitted to the government procedure. An exception is included in the Regulation, namely that for the intervention for the construction of local infrastructure and public infrastructure connections directly connected to the water and coastal area, the amount of compensation for building rights on these sites shall be 5 % of the amount of other compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivic, is he asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u220	Thank you for reading this material prepared by an official, but unfortunately, Madam Minister, we need to talk a little bit about the content. You mentioned bridges here, and I don't know what else, I'm talking about utility equipment, which is also the dictate of this article 23, for the maintenance and construction of economic public infrastructure, and a concrete example is about the construction of public sewerage, a meteor channel with the discharge of parachute waters, which, unlike some watercourse, cannot drain. In this case, it is an illogical solution that you are now talking about if the ZUJF has spoken of all laws owned by the State. I don't know why watercourses would be an exception in this case. In the next case, some roads will be an exception or some other thing. I think that it is still necessary to look at the matter from another point of view, and I believe that even the coalition in this case will not see this interpretation of Article 23 peacefully, because those mayors who presented this to me were outraged because they were convinced that Article 23 was also valid for water and coastal land. I don't know why it would be different, because the diction is clear and also in this document, which is transmitted, speaks of coastal and water land owned by the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know why it would be in a different status than all the rest of the land and not talk to me about some European directives and the pollution of certain watercourses. These are some of the interventions that are linked to crossing individual watercourses, these are also dry shafts, there are a variety of storms where there is no logic whatsoever that you are talking about, and this is the communal equipment that the municipalities are building with European means. And we charge them on the other side of some service and some rights for which we are in the ZUJF [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] But they paid. I would therefore ask for a more concrete response, otherwise I would ask that the debate be held either in the National Assembly or in the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr Member, I am sure that commenting in terms of the preparation of the material is really unnecessary. But if it is, it is mainly because the answers need to keep a stable note and not in any better or worse mood to move away from it in terms of quoting rules, because it happens that it is a quick question again. I repeat: The Water Act speaks of this. I agree with your statements of the Law on the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities, in this part you are absolutely right. However, when I talk about this service or the granting of building rights, I am talking about the Water Act and the fact that this law rightly states that there are no rules on the availability of state property. In the following way, I would say that when it comes to running an outflow, either a meteoric sewer, or an outflow, for example, from a cleaning plant, it is difficult to say that this is not an environmental burden. Surely, in every respect, an intervention into this space, if not from another point of view, must be assessed, determined from the point of view of ensuring flood safety. I agree, however, that discussions are welcome in every way. I repeat, however, that my implementation is based on the provisions of the Water Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you for complementing that answer. I think that this topic, or the Minister's response to this issue, should still be discussed in the National Assembly, because similar problems, as I have received on the table myself, will later be received by all fellow Members, as the ZUJF, measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities, was clear and all those who have read it were convinced that land owned by the State, whether it is water or other land, is free at this point in time to intervene in such cases as the construction of some municipal equipment. I think that, in other cases, the laws with the ZUJF have been driven in some way, and I do not know how we can refer to the Water Act in this case, because we have experienced similar cases in the past, and I believe that a solution will also have to be found on this subject, with which the local communities will be satisfied in the future. Otherwise, this will be a problem, so I propose that the debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April. Mr Franc Lai will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u226	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 28. 11. 2014 confirmed the flood-related action plan covering four sets of measures with timelines and planned values. Of course, this action plan was adopted because last year Slovenia was affected by floods and caused major material damage to buildings, on transport, on water infrastructure, on agricultural areas. The circus was affected by 30,000 hectares of agricultural land, most of which in Pomurje, in the vineyard of Slovenia 12 thousand hectares. I especially expose damage to agricultural areas because farmers have problems with flood damage insurance and premiums and damages themselves reduce their competitiveness. Since we are in the springtime, which is characterized by increased flood risk, I am interested in: Are the activities in accordance with the timetables being carried out? However, I call on the Government to take measures in terms of preventing better than suffering and eliminating harm. But I'm sure, but I think most will also accept that only timely watercourses and floodgates are the right solution. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, Mr. Franz Ly! As you stated, at the end of last November at the government, we adopted an action plan for intervention activities due to the flood, and we have identified a larger number of tasks in this plan. The first point or first set of measures is currently being implemented intensively, these are intervention works that actually represent the nature of the maintenance of watercourses. It has been shown that in the past, when there was not so much interest in managing this work, there was not enough funding, in some parts of Slovenia or in many ways things happened that the maintenance of the watercourses was not done at all without being done to some extent. 187 locations have already been selected and 77 locations have already been implemented and 67 locations are currently being implemented and 43 locations are either starting work or starting in May. By the end of May these intervention works must be completed and funds are also provided for these works. Then, somehow, we have two more sets for regular maintenance and additional maintenance works to start with after signing concession contracts. Last year, this process of selection of concessionaires was completed, all the years so far and also this year, contracts with existing concessionaires are being extended for intervention works. New calls have now been made and we are going into contract signing procedures; additional efforts must be made for two areas after the review by the audit committee. However, as I have already said, other measures have been envisaged, it is a reorganisation of the water management area, and we have already prepared at least a principle definition for this part, so that in the following year a water supply directorate would be established, meaning that these 8 regional units would also be strengthened by human resources, and that the water directorate would actually take over the whole water management, which is not just water treatment, is also used or proper water management, then it is groundwater, also other water units, where water is actually very varied. It has already started the operation of the e-water portal, where or where all data, studies, water records, this is the Leader program, for certain units of Slovenia these data are already being used or obtained, but not all are yet listed or qualified for use in this programme, and we will do so by the end of the year. In strengthening the water sector, the goal has also been set, not least with the coalition contract, but somehow in the middle of the road, we are still working to strengthen this area of water, and this daily work poses a huge problem because in the past there are a lot of urgently needed things that need to be regulated, consumed in a drawer, and now all of a sudden, all of a sudden, there is no way out. It is also the purpose of the Fund for Water and Regulatory Change item; it is the amendment of the Law on Waters and Regulations. We are also catching a timeline in this work, while a long-term measure, this is a plan to reduce flood risk, but we need to build by 2015, and this is 61 areas. The water management plan also runs until the end of 2015. In my view, professional colleagues will also be pursuing this forward-looking objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Franc Ly, a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u230	Thank you for saying that again. Thank you for your appreciated response, but I would like to point out once again, don't forget the floodgates. Now, as I said, we're going to be passing through this time of summer, and there's going to be a lot of things that can happen, and every year we have a lot of problems on the Mura River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Will you answer, Madam Secretary? Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, in his capacity as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. The President of the Government is justifiably absent, so I ask that you define yourself to the way in which you respond. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u232	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! The President of the Government, who is also the Minister of Education, Science and Sport – for the second time – would ask about the Sports Act, but first we have to ask ourselves whether it makes sense to even ask questions from Members. Two ministers are missing, five of them automatically announce their absence, and the President of the Government or the V.D. Minister informed us exactly two hours ago that he would not be here today. It seems to me that this effort that we Members are making to get some questions from a particular area is a little time-consuming. If one member of the opposition is missing, he gets articles in Slovenian journals, but if half of the ministerial session is not in the National Assembly, no one gets anything. It is particularly worrying at the Ministry of Education because we have been hunting for two months: we have a minister, we have no minister, we have no minister, we have no minister, we have a minister and so on. Obviously, we may only get a competent, at least I hope, Minister of Education there once in the middle of June, so that I can really ask him what's going on at this ministry, because we all know that when cats aren't home, mice are dancing. In this sense, it is somewhat similar that there are no ministers, and officials are happy to wait for holidays that will soon be at the door. I wanted to ask Minister Cerar, etc., about the Sports Act, which not only athletes, sports officials, sports associations, the Olympic Committee, but also the local communities have been waiting for some time. The minister, the minister and the minister of the former minister were happy to promise him, but apparently this law is still hidden somewhere in the cabinet drawer. For quite some time, it has been promised that there will be a public hearing, that we will finally see a more thorough version of what the content of this law is, what is the financial aspect of this law, and in particular I was interested in how the professional public participated in this law, but obviously I will not get an answer today. That is essentially why I am interested, and most probably also sportsmen, sports officials, including local communities, because not only the national sport programme, but also local sports programmes are highly dependent on this Sport Act that we are all waiting for. At the following meeting, I would like an oral reply on this: What about the Sports Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u233	Thank you very much. As far as the first part is concerned with the ministers' apology. Five ministers apologized, and then two came, Mr. Erjavec and Dr. Klemenčič, so that's 3. Otherwise, he was the Prime Minister of the Government in the morning, but he was gone this afternoon, and he sent a written apology. However, I must say that Dr Milna Brglez, President of the National Assembly, wrote to the Government a letter expressing his wish that these excuses would be as few as possible, if I may say so. Thank you very much. Of course you'll get the answer in writing. Mr Jan Mahnic will raise the question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. To dean jedan, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In autumn 2014, Slovenia was hit by catastrophic floods. The government of the Republic is 28. 11. confirm Action plan for flood-related intervention activities. It contains four areas of action. The first two, which are short-term, will not contribute significantly to the reduction of flood risk in the Republic of Slovenia, but are the only way to prevent further damage in the short term and at the shortest possible time in the event of floods. Thus, the first set is a set of urgently needed construction works, which provide for measures that can be provided within 6 months and are urgently needed because of the situation on Slovenian watercourses and water infrastructure that have arisen as a result of a number of extreme flood events in last year. These intervention works should be carried out in order to avoid further damage to the water infrastructure and major damage to watercourses or to the flow of Slovenian watercourses in the event of new flood events. From the first set of EUR 12 million, out of 185 units where work was done, 77 were completed and 67 were completed in the final phase and 43 were still under way. The first set is expected to be completed by the end of May, but these intervention measures cause a lot of gray hair. One of the main problems of the action plan is that there is no need to obtain the consent of the Fisheries Institute prior to the watercourse intervention. This leads to inadequate and harmful interventions into watercourses that destroy fish habitats, as conditions for life there are completely destroyed after intervention. Thus we also witness the destruction of a number of fish ponds, which is also pointed out by the Fishing Union of Slovenia and the individual fishing family. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: First time. Is it realistic that the first set of action plans will be completed by the month of May? Another time. Why is the Department of Fisheries not involved in interventions by giving its consent? Third time. Who will be responsible for the damage done in nature? And the fourth time. Who will be responsible for the damage in the case of actions before the European Court of Justice? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, will reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member Jean Mahnic, thank you for the question. It is true that the intervention works carried out by the end of May are of a nature such that these parts prevent greater damage in the event of flood recurrence. In fact, this is not an anti-floating measure in terms of improving flood security and we are implementing it on the basis of or would say that it is the basis that these intervention works can be carried out in the manner we carry out, in Article 10 of the Nature Conservation Act, which speaks of the fact that in the event of such urgent works and interventions in nature it is necessary to cooperate with all stakeholders concerned with nature protection, but it is not necessary to obtain their consent. This provision shall also apply mutatis mutandis to protected areas of cultural heritage where an exception applies in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 28 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Prior to the implementation of these works, appropriate consultations were held on the ground not only with fishermen but also with other stakeholders. If I can determine myself by your question. In all cases, an agreement has been reached with the fishermen, in the event that the fishing operations also needed to be carried out, the fishermen have done so, which means that they have been informed and have thus given their vision of how to proceed with these intervention activities. However, I believe that this is so – probably not only in Slovenia, but also – that any intervention will never satisfy everyone who lives or is involved in the space. I've already talked about this on another occasion today. Actually, I'm talking another time today. When we look for solutions and these solutions relate to space, not to paper, not to this modern technology, but to space, they are present in some space, they always happen, and so it will be that most of them are satisfied with the solution or with the measure, of course the second part is not necessarily a minority, but to a lesser extent certainly, because otherwise such a procedure would not be possible to carry out – it opposes it. The fact that the process in nature is opposed can be found in a number of actual or even less real, real possibilities. At least in my opinion, I am trying to answer this question of yours in some way, but I can still talk about the Freshwater Fisheries Act, which, under Article 19, provides for the acquisition of consent, but only in the procedures for obtaining building permits under the Construction Act. This means that this Article 10 of the Law on the Conservation of Nature and Cooperation is sufficient in this part. This cooperation does not involve natural goods, but we are involved in the participation of people and people in communication sometimes less or more willing to accept compromises. I would like people or experts to use better communication when accepting compromises, then measures that improve the situation would be taken to the satisfaction of most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, please choose a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u238	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I fully agree with you in your work that these intervention measures, of course, do not regulate watercourses, this is about getting the most out of hand, which is that there is no harm done if it does. I also agree that we're always at a crossroads here. One part of this regulation is to protect people's property, life and health, that is to say, we have one public; another public, say, fishermen and the Institute of Fisheries. I am definitely not in favour of this and I support you if you want a little less red tape at the Ministry, but at least some minimum standards I think that, as far as these fish habitats are concerned, we should take into account. Last week we saw what was going on in Lights, how that flood protection was being built, the fish was practically gone, and what was going on. Slovenia has now been invaded or reported to the European Commission by one of the German fishermen who fished here. We have heard the same thing in these intervention measures about what happened in the Soča River, in Kobarid — they completely destroyed the slope of the Soča trout. On Saturday I met members of the High Fisheries family, a fishing family in the Poljanska Valley. The Polish Sora is rich in fish, because of the numerous tourism in the West they are increasingly moving towards the center and continue, so that they also go to the Polish Sora to fish, and they told me that they are appalled at what is happening in some watercourses. This is what the average concrete does without any consensus, but they get, say, such a notification from VGP – Water Management Company Kranj, the country owns 25%: "In accordance with the Government's decision, we inform you that we will perform works that are interventionally and prioritized on the watercourses defined in this action plan..." Then they are defined and written, which inflows of Polish Sora and watercourses. "Please take care of or define your activities and tasks in accordance with your responsibilities." [[…]] Of course, they do the catch, as you said, where they need to, but then — and I have seen some things myself — the fish will no longer be there; the reeds are destroyed, so the damage has already been done because of the flood. I want to know: How's this going to work in the future? What would be the harm if there were any lawsuits?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u240	Thank you. Now three cases have been cited. Nevertheless, I will try to define myself in these cases. In this part, the fishing family carried out two fishing trips in Soča, for in the review the fishermen covered the reeds in their application. This site was not mentioned, it is really difficult to talk today about whether or not the site was destroyed there, but I am pleased to accept this news that fishermen have also invested in Soča a large number of young people of the Soča trout for sport purposes. This indicates that fishermen are actively involved in the management of the watercourse. For a solution in Light is a matter of a slightly older date. The State Spatial Road Management Plan, which Savinja destroyed during the flood, was adopted. In search of this solution, more options were provided, but even at the referendum in the village of Light, among the options presented, and I am sure that Savinja – Savinja herself, not that branch a few hundred meters away, but Savinja herself – suffered no harm from the value of the natural habitat of all the fish that are in this Savinja. In this particular case, I would say that it surprises me that you are exposing the lack of cooperation between hydrotechnicians and fishing families. I would be more pleased to highlight how well they work together, but I have felt this fact in your implementation, because it is a fact, that floods also destroy the living space and the fish in the watercourses and we will still have to talk at some other place. Floods can be devastating, but when we take care of our safety and interfere with our watercourses, we should look at everything other than humans — so there will also be in the future more cooperation and less negative thinking to destroy natural habitats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, who is, as you know, absent. So I ask you to define yourself to the way you answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I had no intention of discussing who is not, who is here, but given the problems of Slovenian health care, it seems to me that our Minister is the last one who could ever go to any political tourism in Brussels, there are many problems in Slovenian health care. Why am I now perhaps a little more ugly or harshly saying this – because I have already asked the Minister of Health an oral question about the Ptuj Emergency Centre a month ago, where I was told that a lot of documentation from the DIP, PGD and so on should be prepared. During the period since the last oral question, until today, on 30 March, I also received some documentation, I have a DIP in my hands, dated June 2012, and the Ministry of Health received the PGD in December 2014. On this basis, I must express my conviction that the Minister does not know what is in the drawers or is misleading the public. I think that, given how long we have been talking about the issue of the Ptuj Emergency Centre, we also have a decision of the Health Committee of 11 February this year; 15 members of the Committee voted that the Health Committee should propose to the Government to include the emergency centre in the emergency centres network. This is not a question of opposition, because the project has also supported over twenty mayors of lower Podravje municipalities, but stems from a variety of political parties. In doing so, I would like to say that the management of the General Hospital Ptuj expects the assistance of the owner, it is said that the Government is trying to obtain agreement on the installation of an emergency centre of type C2 and the arrangements of the upper floor for the purposes and the necessary operational halls. It should be recalled, however, that the General Hospital Ptuj has received EUR 27 million in investments from the country in the last eight years, with only EUR 2.7 million of its own participation, while the General Hospital Ptuj has received EUR 2.5 million from the country in the last 15 years, from cohesion funds for energy recovery. In short, the Minister did not say anything about the implementation of the conclusions adopted at the Health Committee, which is why, of course, I am interested: When will the Ptuj Emergency Centre be included in the national development programme? I expect the answer, however, at the next oral meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask Minister of Culture Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The leadership crisis in SNG Nova Gorica has lasted for several years since the policy has been staffed by the leadership experience of candidates who do not know and deal with theatres. In March 2015, a public invitation to tender for the post of Director of SNG Nova Gorica was announced in the media that the tendering conditions correspond to three of the four applicants: current V.D. Director Neda Rusjan Bric, appointed by the Ministry of State 19. 8. In 2014, when the then Director resigned, she was not supposed to meet the conditions of the second call because she did not have enough leadership experience. At the first call for proposals in 2014, the same candidate came to a narrower selection in the invitation to tender for the Director. In the view of the players and actresses who sent a letter of support to the Ministry and received it, the V.D. Director showed excellent leadership skills; her work so far marked the necessary efforts to establish connections both within the institution and with other theatres. With knowledge of local issues and a desire for artistic step beyond the New York theatre, she has drawn up development guidelines, which are quite supported by employees, because they believe she has the personal will and proper strategies to achieve all the objectives set. Its long-standing practice with diverse theatre professions is reflected in the deep knowledge of the theatre’s activities and its potentials. Therefore, the signatories want guidance that knows and wants to listen to the needs of the creative process. With the appointment of V.D. Director last year, SNG Nova Gorica is finally on the rise, as is evident from the theatre repertoire and the satisfaction of players and actresses who keep the theatre up. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: When will you appoint the director of SNG Nova Gorica? Will you take into account the letter of support to the current V.D. Director Nedi Rusjan Bric, signed by 19 of the 21 players and actresses who have been sent to you? I got it right here. How is it possible that someone can run a public office as a V.D. Director but does not have enough experience to become a director of the institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs. Minister of Culture Mag will answer. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, honourable Member Mrs Violeta Tomić! I understand your concern for the theater. I can tell you that I share my concern for the theater with you. In short, at the Ministry of Culture, we want public institutions to be run by the people most qualified to do so. It is true, however, that a lot of questions have recently come up on this subject, so you are not the only one interested in the SNG Nova Gorica invitation. However, I must say that the Ministry of Culture must not comment on the selection procedures at a time when the selection procedure for the Director or Director is still in progress, as this could have an impact on the selection process. However, I can tell you some general information about the invitation to tender, which is next. The call for appointment of the Director was published pursuant to Article 36 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which provides, inter alia, that the Minister responsible for Culture shall appoint the Director, on the basis of a call for tender, in accordance with the previous opinion of the Council and the Council of Experts for a period of five years with the possibility of reappointment. The Commission, which I have appointed with a view to pre-checking the eligibility of candidates according to the tendering conditions and to interview them, has completed its work in those days. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture will, in accordance with the law on eligible candidates, request a previous opinion from the Council and the professional council of the Public Institute. Councils must respond within 30 days. After this deadline, I will appoint the Director or Director of the Public Institute of SNG Gorica on the basis of all documents available to me by then. I will therefore decide on the Director after reviewing the entire dossier and after carrying out all the necessary procedures. The decision itself will first be notified to the notifiers and all procedures will continue to be carried out in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, a request to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u248	Dear Minister! We have a practice in theatres when the artist stepped in without any experience leading the theatre at the head of this theatre and chose for business matters an assistant director, a consultant. And that went well. But we also have practices when politics has set people from the economy to know how to run the business sector. This man generally did not know who to choose as a cultural advisor, for he knew the theatre structure only from the hall, but not how the theater worked. That is why I am putting my heart at your disposal that it is very important that such an institution is led by a person who will come to know it. You said you had an interview with the candidates, but the only candidate who was considered appropriate was not invited to this interview, it is said that in this round she is excluded and therefore the employees are very concerned, because only one wrong personnel move can be very fatal for the New York theater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u250	Thank you very much. It's very difficult to comment on the cases you cited. Of course, the case you're talking about, I just can't express myself because the law forbids it. This means, of course, that in the end, when all these proceedings are completed, I will have to look at all the documentation, look at all the legal bases and then decide, but decide on the basis of the law, because we cannot afford to go through any procedure at the Ministry of Culture in order to pass the law, even though some people do, but not with us – let’s say that when they sometimes write in newspapers, they do not want to publish the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Violeta Tomic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u252	Procedural. I would just like to remind the Minister to ask her if it is found that legislation is bad in this area and that it destroys public institutions to consider amending this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and the Minister for the Interior of Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u254	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear Minister! Somehow I decided, because I thought it was best – it was a similar problem or a very interconnected one – to ask you a question together, namely, the floods of the Drava River in 2012 changed life for many. In recent days, I have also been very much in the municipality of Gorišnica, especially in Formin and Muretinci and Markovci. There I became well acquainted with the current events after the floods. I also took note of the activities of Northeast 2012, which is a society in which all the victims, who at the time suffered the very extreme damage caused by the floods, are united, and today they are also striving to hold those responsible – it has been proven that in these floods the human factor was also responsible – that they are responsible. Today there was a lot of talk about the floods of the last period, but the floods of Drava in 2012 were really catastrophic. I have two pictures here — a lot of damage. To this day, many people do not know, the situation is not remedied, Drava continues to be at risk. At the time, in 2012, there were also elections, all politicians — even the president of the country then came to Markovce and took the shovel into his hands twice and dug or moved two shovels. The media, and then the politicians forgot about it. Nothing's done until today. Flood damage was €373 million. The only thing that has been done so far is when the President of the country, Mr Pahor, provided information on the situation at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. That was April 23, 2013. People are now left to themselves, competent institutions are insidious, potential culprits are avoiding guilt, pointing to each other, and people are left alone, scared, powerless, without wealth and support. I read that from a member of a fire company in Formin. Also, in 2013 the Gorišnica police station was prosecuted for causing a general threat, which was then resigned to the Maribor Police Administration. At which stage the procedure is not known to anyone. However, it is likely that the national interest, which is the national interest, is that this process is being pursued, that it is known and that people are responding. So, this in the first part, and then I'll continue in the second part. [[sign for the end of the debate]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, will reply first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, Mr Andre Couch, for the question raised. I will respond to the first part of the Ministry of Environment and Space to order the production of a study on the flood event at Drava 5. 11. 2012. This study was made by the Water Institute. On the basis of the results of this study, Slovenian experts, in cooperation with Austria, have achieved an amendment to the Austrian rules on the operation and control of hydroelectric power plants in Drava, Austria, from 1. This year, 1st year includes a pre-accumulation measure, which significantly reduces flood risks due to the operation of the hydroelectric power plant chain. We are also prepared to offer at the Ministry the use of the results of this flood analysis study on Drava to the representatives of the injured at Drava floods to prepare or regulate their claims against the responsible person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u257	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Magus. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member of the Hearth! Only one offence related to these floods was announced to the police on the basis of an oral criminal complaint lodged by a natural person on 9 May 2014. In this regard, the police collected all the necessary notifications concerning the suspicion of a criminal offence causing a general risk under Article 314 of the UNCCR. Since the collection of notifications and other measures established that there was no basis for a criminal complaint, the police submitted a report to the Ptuj District Attorney General on the basis of Article 148, paragraph 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, if you please, request a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u260	I thank you for your information. Unfortunately, as far as the announcement of the suspicion of criminal service is concerned, so far no one has found out, despite the fact that he has repeatedly shown interest in this in the past. Madam Minister Majcen, I thank you for this analysis. I was aware that it was prepared by one of the insurance companies a while ago to prepare or co-finance an analysis that would then be the basis for compensation from the Austrian Verbund. But they're waiting for hearings in the Austrian Verbund, but Verbund's not responding to requests because he expects them to be held accountable for the flood. So we need such a study before the criminal court in Celovac, although there is a criminal proceeding against two persons who were in charge of raising prisons at the time of the event and there is no proceedings against Verbund as a legal person. It is stated that it is important for the expiry of anti-verbund deadlines, which are not broken down in this case, but only for the compensation of injured persons against Verbund to the competent court. It is, however, linked to the costs of a fair trial, in particular to the costs of judicial experts flying to the sky in this case. However, these victims cannot bear them because they have been severely affected in the past or in the floods and have invested all their resources in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Irene Maycen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u262	Perhaps it would be enough to add to the fact that we have appointed a group in the government to discuss these matters with the Austrian government or this country. We've already confirmed a number of things, but for now, they're internal. I am so sure that those victims, who are also setting up procedures against the cause of this disaster themselves, will succeed in obtaining compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u264	Thank you, once again, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! I wanted to ask you at the previous session what is the airworthiness of the Slovenian rivers. I'm mainly interested in airworthiness with motor vehicles. Otherwise, I received a brief reply from you in two paragraphs about how the Water Act prohibits navigation by motor vehicles across Slovenian rivers, but that by means of sub-legal acts, in particular through a government regulation, the matter can be regulated in some way and that the local community can determine airworthiness by non-motor vehicles in accordance with the Inland Water Navigation Act. In Slovenia we know that we are quite a river country: Sava, Drava, Mura, Ljubljanica, Krka and so on. There is also a huge potential for the navigation of Slovenian rivers with motor vehicles, but of course we also have excellent, not only good practices abroad, how to accelerate local economic potential, how to accelerate the local development of tourism in individual regions, but we do not have to go far abroad. In short, you replied that under the Water Act it is forbidden to sail by motor-powered vessels on inland waters. I want to know: Do you consider amending legislation in this area in this mandate, or do you simply think that it is possible to resolve the matter by means of individual regulations? An example from practice. In the lower Posavje we have quite a few hydro power plants already built, one in construction, and one we hope to get. I want to know: Are you thinking of making a law that would regulate motor vehicles across the whole Sava from the hydropower plant Vrhovo, or with individual regulations? Why do I ask that? I already asked your Prime Minister, Minister of the Jews, on 9 May 2013, how, with the adoption of the regulation on airworthiness with motor vehicles in relation to the Bosniak hydropower plant, he said, "The adoption of the regulation is foreseen in the first half of this year." So, in 2013. Nothing happened. Question 8 is similar. 5. 2014, the same answer: "We anticipate that the provisions of this Regulation will continue to be available on the Accumulation Lake during this navigational season." Then I asked you last November – the answer: "We will adopt a regulation." And your last reply in January this year: "I inform you that the regulation is on the list of proposals for a normative work or government programme in 2015 and is expected to be adopted at the end of March 2015. I would like to remind you, Madam Minister, that we are on 20 April of this year and the regulation is not yet visible on the Government's agenda. I want to know: Are you not doing your job or your officials? More in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u266	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member Tomaž Lisec! I apologize for my unsolicited absence from the previous session. If we are talking about shipping and inland navigation, of course, this is regulated by the Law on Inland Water Navigation and the Water Act. The Inland Water Navigation Act is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure. In the Water Act, this area is governed by Article 66 and, in accordance with this Article, navigation is determined in four areas. It is a regulation on the use of motor-powered vessels on the Ljubljana River in 2004, then the regulation on the use of motor-powered vessels on the Drava River, on the Ptuj Lake even in 2004, then on the section of the Krka River through Novo mesto in 2006 and the regulation on the use of motor-powered vessels on the Zbilje Lake in 2007. I agree with you that the postponement of the drafting of this Regulation is not well accepted, and I am sorry that this is happening. However, I am also aware that, as I have already said in my response to the water management action programme, it was envisaged that we would also strengthen our human resources. Unfortunately, this part has not yet been done, so I admit that I will no longer answer in terms of setting a date. However, it is a fact that this regulation is in the Government's normative work programme and that they could then also take the culprit, where he is, that this is not yet ready. It's more difficult to say today. So, in carrying out tasks without human resources reinforcements, I am very sorry that such matters will still remain unfulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u268	Thank you. First of all, I asked whether the amendment of the legislation to regulate this in accordance with the Water Act is whether we will still be adopting individual regulations, and thus in hydropower plants, on other rivers in Slovenia. I know that four regulations have been adopted as well as the system, but the distinguished Minister, you replied: "The Bosniak Hydropower Regulation, the airworthiness of motor vehicles, is expected to be adopted at the end of March 2015. I told you before, for two years we've been waiting for the Ministry's answers, and once there's a problem in the zebra shell, once there's a problem in the oil, once there's a question whether electric or motor vehicles, once it's a question of whether to measure speed by engine size. Today we've heard that the problem is the Ministry's human resources sub-nutrition. Madam Minister, I am interested in the adoption of this Regulation: What will we have to do? Is there any resistance on the part of the countrymen, the citizens on the lower Sava, or perhaps some sort of criminal charge? We know who the ministers were. Are there any criminal charges against prospective officials who, obviously, have not given themselves in three years except that they have been humanely fed? Or would it be necessary for a respected minister to write some interpretation to ministers who write something and then do not stick to it? If we Members are committed to serious work and we have our deadlines, you write them down and you do not stick to them, and then after 3 months you say that you are understaffed. Dear Minister, it's an unsettling answer. Unfortunately, in the temple of democracy, as we call it, we must all adhere to the laws, regulations; you do not stick to it and say that you are humanely fed. So, tell me, Your Honor Minister: Will it be necessary to file a criminal complaint or to write an interpolation in order to finally obtain a hydropower plant or a regulation on airworthiness?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Majcen, Minister, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u270	Dear Mr. Tomaž Lisec! Which path will you choose, you will decide for yourself, and I will not help you here with your proposal. It is true, however, that other stakeholders in the area, not least fishermen, are involved in the preparation of such a regulation, and the preparation of such a regulation is technically difficult in the sense that it is necessary to cooperate with all those in the area that manage and deal with the living in the river. In our search for a solution, we will take a path that does not necessarily lead to a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec's procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u272	Thank you, Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to hold a debate at the next meeting on the airworthiness of Slovenian rivers or airworthiness with motor vehicles, because it is obvious that the problem is not only the management of the Ministry, because I believe – you are in charge of this area or of this regulation for the last half of the year – that your predecessors, together with the officials, have not done their job. Just a practical example. The Bosniak hydropower plant has been experimental in operation since 2006, and then 2008 has really started to operate, and for 7 years we have been asking the Ministry, and I, as a Member, have already been a colleague of Vizjak, and the local community and the mayor have been at the forefront for the last 4, 5 years and always and always say the same thing about how something can't be done. And then sometimes I'm critical of officials, and they say that Members criticize officials. But today you said yourself that officials have not done their job, and the last reason is because they are too few. Dear Minister, even if there were 100 more officials, we would probably still be preparing the same answer for you today as to how something can't be done, of course, if it doesn't. In short, I want not only the Bosniak hydropower plant or this regulation on airworthiness by motor vehicles to be discussed. Other Slovenian rivers also have a desire to accelerate their economic development, to accelerate tourism, and, last but not least, to adopt a regulation for the Blanca hydroelectric power plant, the Krka hydroelectric power plant, probably also hydroelectric districts. That I am a bit mean, the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant has not even started to build yet, and I will propose to the Mayor of Brežica that today he will make a proposal for a regulation with motor vehicles in the area of the Mokrica hydroelectric power plant, because it is likely that once there 2022 will be a turn, because obviously the procedures take 7 to 8 years to do something, and then it will be done by saying that the Ministry of Human Resources is undernourished. In short, I want to discuss the airworthiness of Slovenian rivers, especially in the field of motor vehicles, and I believe that all those living near Sava, Drava, Mure, Ljubljanica, Krka, and that I will not forget any more rivers will support this proposal, so that we can all find out that at the Ministry, not only a respected minister, but especially your officials, do not do the work for which they are paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 21 April, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, the economic and financial crisis has affected a number of companies, both in private and in direct and direct state ownership, and therefore these companies have been forced to take such and different measures to ensure their financial consolidation. Some have collapsed, many have gone bankrupt, some have been transferred to a bad bank, many have gone missing. Many companies have also saved at the expense of employees, some justifiably, others unjustifiably, both private and state-owned, indirectly or directly. However, for the protection of rights we have employees at the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, the main three areas are labour relations control inspection, safety and health inspection at work and social inspection. That's why I was so much more concerned or surprised when I saw in the media how employees' rights were being violated, or if I could express myself in this way, I would say that virtually, if even inspections had found out, there was a mobbing of employees in Terme Catež. With the new year, two supplements were abolished, which they received for almost 15 years. For example, chefs and waiters received a 50-euro allowance to pay, employees without more days of absence were paid around €40 each month, now demanding a refund of these supplements, otherwise predicting the sentence for August 15, 16. It is said that in some of the biggest Slovenian thermals, we are threatened by a strike in the very center of the tourist season. These supplements were abolished past the enterprise collective agreement, we know that while the owner of the DZS has up to EUR 150 million of liabilities to banks, in 2012 the company had 10 million euro of balance-sheet profits, in 2013 a further half million. They were also cut into a supplement for working age and stimulation, yet Terme Catež’s income is very low. I said I'd point out a specific case because it's screaming in the sky if that's true what's going on. I believe you have information, and I'm particularly interested in: Was there any application in this particular case? Did the Inspectorate then find out any violations? And not last: How many of these violations have there been in the last period? You probably have information, at least for a time, if you happen to have it with you, as long as you are a minister or a little while ago: How many of these violations have been reported so far and have been actually detected by the Labour Inspectorate, either in private companies or in companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u276	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice-President, thank you for the question Mahnič, my dear Members and Members! I would like to explain a number of things in this regard. Firstly; in fact, the infringements recorded by the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate in the period when we are looking at the crisis since 2008 – you will now be considering the 2014 Inspectorate report in the National Assembly – this growth is in fact evident. For example, in 2014, 17 000 392 inspections were carried out in the field of labour control, 9 000 759 inspections in the field of safety and health at work and 7 000 568 inspections. So it goes like this: 17,000 inspections – a work relationship, 9 000 700 for safety and health and 7 000 500 for safety and health at work. In short, it's getting bigger. They found 29 thousand 685 different violations and issued 12 thousand 433 different measures, 5 million euros. It will also explain that in the past they have mainly noted an increase in non-payment of salaries and contributions, now interestingly, but increasing the proportion of infringements in the area of increased labour, indicating that employers, while economic growth, increased demand, are not yet hiring, but with existing workers, want to do an increased amount of work, as pressures are mainly on the increase in overtime and the increased volume of work. This is how this part is being increased in the first place. Then we'll go to the point of mobile. In fact, it is mobile or torture in the workplace provided for by the Labour Relations Act as a violation. But it is actually very difficult to prove suffering and many times talk about suffering, but it is not consistent with this perception of suffering, as it is legally defined, if I say so, because the law says that we are talking about suffering, if it is'repeated or systematic play worthy of or manifestly negative and offensive conduct or behaviour directed at individual workers in the workplace or in relation to work'. It's very hard to prove. For example, given the difficulty of proving violations of harassment and suffering, the role of the Inspectorate in this area is particularly preventive. Thus, in 2014, labour inspectors found 125 infringements when the employer failed to take appropriate measures to protect workers from harassment or torture at the workplace, and 157 infringements where the employer did not inform workers of the measures taken to protect workers from harassment or torture. However, it must be made clear that the Inspectorate does not separate and otherwise treat privately or privately, i.e. whether it is a state-owned undertaking or a private undertaking. In this sense, he does not play any role, the Inspectorate does the same thing. As far as Terme Catež is concerned, now specifically. The Slovenian Labour Inspectorate is currently in charge of the supervision process with the employer Terme Čatež, but this procedure has not yet been completed, but it does not relate to torture in the workplace, since the application is not so misleading. But after you have also asked me a question, it is mainly about the payments of workers, so it is not about mobilising as such, but it is about infringements concerning the payment of workers in the management of work. I cannot say more about this control at this time, because it is not yet complete and clear, but I believe that they will be employers, as far as the employer has the opportunity to agree with his employees in a way that this work process runs smoothly. So I hope that all of these conflicts, which you now report are happening, will also be resolved in a constructive way in the dialogue at company level. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u278	Thank you, Chairman. I must say that for the first time, I have asked the Minister an oral question, and I must say that I will do so again because I will at least have specific answers to the questions raised from her. However, Madam Minister, I would not ask you this question if I did not receive a direct e-mail from the daughter of one employee. She wrote to me a few months ago that an employee of over 60 years of age had been called to a staff-law service, where we suggested that he should be fired and then hired by someone who has an S.P., in two to three months he could go to the institution and receive a larger retirement. The working conditions in the pastry shop, bakery or briefly in CPH are catastrophic, hygiene cannot be maintained. A while ago, gentlemen from Lidla arrived, all shocked when they arrived, wearing protective clothing, masks, shoes, and after sightseeing, they immediately cancelled or cancelled their contract with the Termes Catež. They have reduced their salaries so much that they are below the minimum and have to pay them the difference in contributions to be on the minimum wage. They received, as stipulated by law, a new leave decision, but they were torn off several days of leave from the previous years. As you know, Director Terme Catež is Sebastian Selan, this Sebastian Selan was Director of the Sowe during the Pahor government. First he did damage to Owl, and now he's doing damage in Terme Catež. That's exactly what contempt is, his statement to the employees. He told them they were nothing and they were just numbers. That's why I'm interested, Madam Minister: Will the Labour Inspectorate be either on your recommendation, or will it have to come from one of the employees – but we know what it's like not to have these applications made because everyone is afraid for their job – but what procedures are there? In view of the first three questions you answered me, maybe just one more question: Are you preparing any changes to the legislation in this area? As you said, sometimes the problem has been payment and this, but now it is mainly too extensive work and violations of this title. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u279	Ms. Anja Kopač Dark will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. I'll proceed, Mr. Jan Mahnic. If I got a letter like that, it's a matter of fact that this may be transmitted to the Inspectorate. It is the responsibility of all of us here to raise – we cannot read unverified letters here, we now accuse the director of fact. I don't want to defend him only if we put ourselves in the role of any director in such a way that when someone sends – well, people can always report anonymously to the Inspectorate. I understand that people are afraid for their jobs, all of this is reality, but the rule of law, our country, whatever it is, can only work if everyone does their part of the task. So, the Inspectorate is in control of what he's got on file. What you have read, if true, is absolute bullying and is unacceptable treatment of workers. The fact that it can be verified is, of course, difficult to prove if anything is not written. It's this problem because it's just too much along with some higher social responsibility we can change these things. [[…]] But anyway, when I get this, because a lot of people across different social networks or something else they're referring to, what they should do, always or ask, and I say, send me to the Inspectorate, which according to their capabilities, because they can't do everything, because unfortunately there are only 81 inspectors for the whole country. I've read over 29,000 shorts, that's the problem. [[…]] As far as what we will do for the future is concerned, legislation must not always be adapted to individual needs because it is different — respect for what is written, and none of us should turn away when it comes to violations, and they must be disclosed in accordance with our competences. In this case, the Inspectorate will check, now they're in Terme anyway, and they can look at other things. However, it is necessary to know that this practice is unacceptable; to say repeatedly that it is unacceptable and that together you can only know that it is not permissible to have more than 20 overtime per month in marriage. So, how am I gonna change the law? Even the Inspectorate is too small, we have no inspection services, absolutely we have a coalition contract written down to strengthen it. 81 inspectors can't control everything. On the other hand, we cannot expect to have enough inspectors in society to stand by each one, to check him until he does, in a way, it's normal for someone to break him until they get him. It should be normal for all of us to act in accordance with the law. We've already amended the Labour Inspection Act last year. They have new powers. The world is also named, where there is much more cooperation. In fact, only society as a whole, as well as employers who do not comply with the law that we, as consumers, have started on the various black lists we have in the country. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal? Here you go, Jean Madnick.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u282	Thank you, Vice President. Excuse me. I'll use it procedurally in 20 seconds. I will not propose an additional debate because I am satisfied with the Minister's response. But I must say that I will always send this e-mail to you, Madam Minister, as well as make an application to the Labour Inspectorate. I believe that's true if my employee's daughter sent this to me. Even as a member of the Security Intelligence Commission, I know what Mr Selan was doing on Owl, so I am not surprised by what is now being done in Terme Catež. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u283	Thank you very much. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 21 April, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am adjourning the seventh session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
