ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 12th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Jelka Godec, mag. Alenka Bratusek, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček from 2 p.m. on, mag. Jana Jenko, mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Anže Logar, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Janez Janša, Dr Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Ivan Škodnik and Luka Mesec until 13:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on pre-emptive protection of callers and high-level sportsmen by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u2	Dear President, respectable and respected! In May 2014, the Act on Overstretching Insurance of Professional athletes was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a proposal by Members. It was a complete novelty in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, but when we were faced at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport with the beginning of the implementation of the law or the verification of the feasibility of individual provisions, together with the other stakeholders who are subject to certain obligations, we found that the provisions of the law are incomplete in some parts, they need a supplement and, in particular, a clearer and enforceable dictatorship. In some cases, due to binding legislation affecting the enforceability of this law, such as sectoral legislation, pension legislation, labour legislation, etc., we have proposed not only to extend the deadline for preparing the enforceability of this law, but also to address the ability to draw up an enforceable law in a way that is true for the benefit and well of athletes. This was also the basic purpose of the proposed law tabled by Members during that period, and we would also like to keep this in the future. The law could not have been implemented during that period or there would have been considerable risks in the implementation of the provisions, either legal or financial. We have therefore also invited all the other stakeholders to whom the law relates to the joint drafting of the law, as far as possible possible within the given framework. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Capital Society, the Slovenian Sports Union, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, have worked closely with us. The working group has thus drawn up a proposal for a new law on bridging insurance for professional and top athletes and has thus addressed, within the given framework, the shortcomings of the current law and made it as feasible as possible in accordance with the already mentioned sectoral legislation, i.e. disability insurance legislation and in particular the field of investment funds and management companies. I believe that the basic starting point that we followed at the Ministry in the preparation of this law is, above all, to ensure that athletes are better able to move to life after the end of an active sport path, thereby achieving other areas of legislation within the proposed legislative framework. We are aware that the circle of athletes identified by the proposed law as possible insurers in bridging insurance is very narrow at this time, so we will also work at the Ministry to further increase the various forms of employment of athletes, acquisition of complementary skills and education. That is why we are already implementing projects from European funds, the development of personnel in sport, where we, among other things, allow former top athletes to get an education. We are also fulfilling the missions of so-called industry sports schools where former professional or top athletes can be employed and their skills as trainers can be transferred to younger generations. On the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, amendments were proposed and adopted, which in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative Service of the National Assembly have also been revised editorially. Of course, legal differences were based on the basic, that is, the first law in force, the one that is still active at the moment. However, a proposal was adopted in the consensus both between Members and the professional public and the government to halt the application of the law. In this way, we have time to re-examine possible uncertainties, which, last but not least, is pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. We are aware of these, but I repeat that the purpose of the law is to find within the given framework of Slovenian legislation, in particular those areas requiring further coordination, the basic and purpose of the law, which was then also brought by Members to this national assembly, and which was also sought by this proposed new law to take into account the Government and the activities of the Ministry of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed at its 15th emergency meeting on 16 October and its follow-up on 19 October this year the Proposal for a Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional and Supreme athletes submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 39th meeting on 9 October this year that this bill should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The proposed law was examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In her presentation of the opinion, her representative said that the draft law replaces the applicable Act on the Remediation Insurance of Professional athletes, for which the accompanying draft law states that she deviates greatly from any comparable legal regime in the Republic of Slovenia. It explained that its provisions were unclear, incomplete and partly contradictory, making them impossible for the institutions concerned to implement them. For this reason, the law in force did not actually take effect and the amendment also extended the deadline for setting up the Fund to 1 November 2015. It further considered that there were concerns about the concept of the law itself, as the basic concept of the law did not change that there were constitutional concerns about the circle of insurers, legal system concerns about the specific tax status of payments and payments, and the law also preserved the partial summary of certain content of other laws. The opinion was also presented by a representative of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, who supported the bill and found that it was coordinated among all stakeholders concerned. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport explained the purpose of the bill and that, by adopting the new law, the bridge insurance of professional and top athletes will be duly placed in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The discussion focused on the content and purpose of the proposed law, the insurers and the Committee of the Crossing Fund. In the case of bridge insurance insurers, the compulsory inclusion of non-independent athletes and the voluntary inclusion of athletes who have the right to have the right to play sport, the name of a top sportsman and have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia has been highlighted. In doing so, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also noted that there were no grounds for different regulation of the legal situation of professional athletes or for the definition of such a circle of insurers. An amendment was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to appoint three insurance representatives, in addition to other stakeholders, as well as the Slovenian Sports Union. The representative of the proposed amendment explained that the Slovenian Sports Union is the only representative of Slovenian athletes who has fully participated in the drafting of the law and is carrying the costs of liquidation of the bridge fund. The representatives of the Capital Society, d.d., the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions and the Union of Sportsmen of Slovenia also made comments. After discussion, the Committee, pursuant to Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, drafted and adopted the amendments of the Committee and, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament has the word Mag for it again. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! Your Honor! The proposed amendment to the Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes, which is before us, received a number of comments during the hearing in the National Assembly. Both coalition and opposition Members, the Government and representatives of the fund manager have been working for months to prepare a law that is not unclear and incomplete and does not pose financial risks. With the amendments, you have certainly ensured that this will be for at least some time, because we have repositioned the operation of the bridge fund into the following year. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we hope that you will indeed be able to harmonise and eliminate all the confusion and imperfections about the implementation of the law, because it is difficult to say that today there is a law before us that will really enable athletes to take care of their social security during the course of their sports careers for a time after the cessation of sports activities. The Legislative and Legal Service has already pointed out that the proposed solutions deviate from the social security system, as they do not include principles such as reciprocity and solidarity. Restraint insurance or fund will be difficult to recover if it does not work on the solidarity system. For each athlete can save on his own pleasure today for years when he will no longer be a sports professional. Therefore, one of the important contributions of such a fund would also be reciprocity or solidarity, which is unlikely to be achieved by such a proposal. In addition, reciprocity and solidarity are linked to the number of athletes who are obliged to join the bridge insurance system and those who can do so. During the meetings of the working body, we were able to hear that the estimates regarding the number of individuals who will pay into the fund are neither uniform nor known at all, so we are concerned that this number would not be sufficient and that the fund would be liquidated. The bill already provides for a provision on the liquidation of the fund. If the number below 200 and a half years does not reach 200 members, the fund will be abolished. Can we therefore expect the fund to come back to life, or is this provision merely allowing a fund that does not have a future to shut down? I am fully convinced that in Slovenia we need a law that will achieve the objectives set out in this law before us, but I am afraid that we will not achieve them by such provisions. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the law, because we hope to give the government another chance by means of the amendment of the law that is before us, to really prepare a law that will allow it by next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u7	Mr Kamel Izidor Shaker has the floor of the Modern Centre's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, Members and Members are deciding on a proposal for a law that was initially adopted at the last meeting of the previous Assembly. It was adopted on a proposal from Members and Members with 43 votes in favour and 19 against. At that time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia objected to the proposal of the law due to a number of systemic inconsistencies, intransigence, inconsistencies. This raised questions about the unclear placement of the bridging fund in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and also questions about the content of the proposed legislation, which did not constitute a systematic, clear, transparent and comprehensive system, and consequently its feasibility was also questioned. In the meantime, adverse forecasts of the implementation of the adopted law have proved to be more than justifiable, as the competent stakeholders simply could not or could not implement it due to these shortcomings. In doing so, we can ask ourselves about the political wisdom and responsibility of the decision taken at the time, with the noble aim of legal regulation, that is to ensure the social security of professional and top athletes after the end of an active sports career. In the SMC Group, we would like to reiterate once again the importance of the implementation phase of the public policy decisions adopted and its connection to the drafting or drafting of a specific act. Even such a good or noble solution to the social problem at a normative level in practice does not produce the desired effects if the implementation of the decision is not successful or does not occur at all. We therefore reject the speculation that we wanted to abolish social rights and tax benefits for professional and top athletes and that we do not care about this group of athletes, because the objective pursued by the current law has not been achieved or implemented. Let us add to this a lack of legislation in the field of sport, which is indirectly linked to the current legislative proposal. The Act on Sport 1998 is almost 20 years old and has been poorly regulated by the status of professional and top athletes and their employment structure, which is also linked to labour legislation. We believe that we will discuss and decide as soon as possible on the new sport law and that it will also offer an answer to some of the still open questions related to the draft law that we will be deciding on today. For these reasons, a proposal was also proposed and adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth with regard to the late application of the proposed law. The period from publication to law enforcement is intended to make the addressees familiar with the new legal standards and to prepare the law to be implemented. Given that the law currently in force cannot be implemented and given the complexity of legal matter, this is considered a meaningful and necessary decision. In the SMC Group, at the time of the adoption of the amendment of the current current law in June, by which we extended the deadline for the establishment of the bridge insurance fund, we explained in the position that we do not want the fatherly attitude of the country towards sport, which we believe must be the field of operation of each responsible authority, due to the important functions it has for society as a whole. It is also important to welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to draft such a law, which will allow the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia to be properly placed in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and which, on the other hand, addresses some open issues of the current law. We will therefore also support the draft law on bridge insurance for professional and top athletes in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u10	Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! We have yet another novel of the Law on Crossing Insurance for professional athletes. In fact, it is only an upgrade to the existing or existing law, which was last adopted in June, and an upgrade to the law adopted at the last meeting of the National Assembly of the previous reference. I must say that we have already joined the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group among the initiators and co-signatories of the bill, which was created in civil society at the initiative of Slovenian athletes and athletes, as we estimate that the country has fallen asleep in the field of sport or that we have not had some strategically defined and planned sport policy since its independence. In view of the amendments that have been tabled to address this point, I note that the passions of Friday's meeting of the committee have calmed somewhat and that everything shows that the policy will come together and listen to the needs of Slovenian athletes and athletes and help them create better conditions for the future. I must say that in the SDS Group, when we co-signed the first draft of the law, we expected that unity in the National Assembly would be slightly greater, but not that we should essentially fight and fight for it, because Slovenian athletes are the first and best promoters of the country in the world, and then we are somehow the most recognizable, and we believe that the state does not do enough. Sportsmen need to be heard and helped for a number of reasons. The first is definitely this result, we already have a kind of moral obligation, when some athlete achieves a good result, all politicians, all political parties congratulate, want to hear from them, but when something has to be done, forget about it. Unfortunately, the career of an athlete cannot last a lifetime, so this is another problem, which is why we support this bill. Thirdly, athletes should be allowed to better integrate into society and to live after their careers. I must say that in the last days, although I unfortunately couldn't attend the board meeting on Friday because I was abroad, I also saw a lot of criticism in the public yesterday by sports officials. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say that this is a so-called sports elite, which is part of the problem and not part of the solution, because Slovenian sport has been in the free fall for several years. As long as these same people are running a sport policy, it is difficult to promise to change for the better. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I have to say that I often hear fighting in public, calling for an increase in the budget for culture, which, of course, is right and legitimate, but when resources in the sports budget are being cut down, I rarely hear anyone say what's going on. And here, too, I missed the greater engagement of the National Assembly. See, sports infrastructure in Slovenia is on average 37 years old and in the 2016 budget we will spend only 100,000 euros. Now the so-called sports elite, which I have talked about many times in the National Assembly, directs large financial resources also through concession funds from gambling. There is also a novel on the Law on gambling, which, instead of opening the market to other bidders, creates an even greater monopoly than we already have today. All these maneuvers, which are currently taking place at the Ministry of Finance, will have to be opened to the public once, presented in the National Assembly as part of the legislative process, and told people what they are doing. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will continue to draw attention to the problems in Slovenian sport that we face daily. Of course, we will go against solving the problem and support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, the Desus Group did not support this law in its previous mandate. In addition to the substantive reservations, the Desus Group also objected to the proposed law at that time because it doubted that the law could be implemented successfully in practice in all cases of inconsistencies, uncertainties and shortcomings in terms of constitutional, systemic and nomotechnic nature. Unfortunately, despite extensive amendments both at the home work body and at the plenary hearing at the second and third readings of the law, it was not prepared to be implemented. Well, this was confirmed later this year by extending the deadline for the creation of a bridge insurance fund for professional athletes by amending the law. The Desus Group has supported the extension of the deadline, but we have pointed out that we are looking forward to an appropriate and comprehensive amendment of the law to enable the law to be revived in practice. Today, after many complications before us, we are complemented by the text of the bill, which we still cannot be completely impressed with, but even less in fact come before the athletes and ensure that this is now the real thing that will enable them to have a safe and successful bridge period after the end of their sports career. In the Desus Group, we are very well aware of the importance of Slovenian sport and the outstanding sports results that our athletes have achieved in the former country, and today our independent country has even better, even more resilient, success in view of our smallness. Of course, in the first place because of their extraordinary effort, diligence, and will. Therefore, in view of all the shortcomings in the field of sports, it is essential to regulate this area by means of fundamental or umbrella legislation, which is the Sport Act. It is not particularly important to note that outdated legislation is a poor journey for our athletes, and in the context of today's bill, a new law on sport is urgently needed. In this way, the definition of public interest in sport and the definition of individual sports status, as well as the regulation of relations between sportsmen and sports companies, are essential for the successful implementation of bridge insurance. According to our assessment, the decision to extend the time limit for the entry into force of the law also makes sense if we were to be able to adopt a new law on sport, it is possible that all those provisions of the law which are still controversial at this time and, on the other hand, do not even correspond to the actual state of sport in terms of the labour law. By extending the time-consuming application of the law, which, according to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and other stakeholders or holders of jurisdiction, I am thinking, above all, of the Capital Society as the manager of the bridging fund, can now finally live in terms of the operation of the fund, we will be able to contribute to the better implementation of the substantive purpose of the law itself, according to our assessment. This is the provision of some transitional social security for athletes after the end of their active sports career. During this deferred period until the application of the law, it is essential that, in the context of the education and seminars to be carried out by the Sports Union, those affected by the law be well acquainted with the content of the law, in order to prepare appropriate collective agreements with individual sports associations and to adapt the current relations of athletes accordingly, so that athletes will have the possibility of including themselves in this new one with the highest possible number of insurance. Although not everyone in the Desus Group is very excited about this law, we will support it in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u13	Mr Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, Your Honor Minister. colleagues and colleagues! We have talked a lot about sport in this house over the last two months, especially in the light of the adoption of the budget. Every time we achieve a remarkable and important result, this is a major topic, regardless of the existing agenda, also in the National Assembly. When Slovenian volleyball players achieved a remarkable result, we were happy with them and shared with all fans the view that Slovenian sport is a promoter at the same time, a model and at the same time one of the important economic sectors that we need to support in the country and we have to offer it additional support in order to realize the potential it has as an economic sector. At the same time, in the National Assembly, we face the fact that we adopt laws that are on the one hand populism, on the other hand, impossible. One of the examples of such legislation is the Law on Overstretching Insurance of Professional athletes, which has been adopted as a Member law and is, for the second time, considered as one of the insurmountable or insurmountable legislative measures adopted by the National Assembly. It is extremely important in this regard that we are not talking about the fact that we want to term the law, but that we are looking for solutions, however, to regulate the status of professional athletes, the status of the industry in which people work shorter working periods, but in some way for a full-time job. Of course, we all wish that through sport, professional and professional as well, it would be possible to provide for the entire working time and that, irrespective of the reduced professional working time, it would be possible to achieve an adequate existential standard, pension and social inclusion after the end of a professional sport career. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has already said at the first reading in a new reference that it wants to improve the proposal to seek new solutions and that it needs in particular a law that will address all professional and professional athletes in the Republic of Slovenia. This is also followed by this novel and by an extension that allows us to find together a solution that can actually enable the long-term development and stability of sport as a working and economic sector. In the Social Democrats Group, we will therefore support the proposal in the hope that in a year we will not meet again with the question of whether the law is feasible or not feasible, but only with the question of how we can complement the existing feasible and operational proposal by allowing Slovenia to compete and develop in the global sport market and that Slovenian athletes and athletes have an equal position and opportunity for personal and career development as well as other professional and professional sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the new Law, the government of Mira Cerar again showed its true face to the protection of professional and top athletes. In the last ten days, the layout has been very illustrative and can serve as an illustration of the general functioning of this coalition. The government has inherited this unhappy marriage. Since the creation of Mr Kavticnik from Positive Slovenia, with the support of right-wing Members, it is clear that the law is weak and cannot be implemented, but also on the surface that he is socially unjust. Nevertheless, the government has decided not only to maintain the law but to make it operational. We have been given a violation of the procedures and principles of the rule of law, confusion and chaos, and a deterioration of the situation for those concerned by the law, in this case for athletes. It's exactly the same as a bad bank, fiscal rule or privatisation. The Act on bridging insurance of professional and top athletes exposes all incompetence, inefficiency and neoliberal blindness of the Government at the head of the Modern Centre Party. Chronology needs to be repeated quickly. In June, you extended the validity of the law in order to make corrections in the meantime, although it was clear that the law, which is so wrong in principle, could not be rectified. Then you have run the changes so long that the amendment of the law is not a small amendment, but the changes that should be rethought in detail are now made through Parliament as a matter of urgency. The most bizarre moment occurred in the Committee's consideration of the parties to the coalition's amendment, which was to change the title of the novel to the Act repealing the Act on the Restraint Insurance of Professional and Supreme athletes, before which all Articles 3 to 48 should be deleted, headed by a party offering respect for the rule of law as the main political commitment. You've literally changed your mind this weekend, and apparently the marriage has become good enough to be voted on today. You added a provision that the law would enter into force in September 2016, so that the law could be amended again in the meantime. This is just a parliamentary farce, colleagues and colleagues. The law on bridge insurance of professional and top athletes is intended to regulate the social security of athletes. Of course, it doesn't hold much of anything else. Social security includes employment, health, housing, education and other aspects. The bridging fund, which the law is trying to establish, is a tax-stimulated savings fund, which, at the top of everything, is intended for a few hundred athletes at best, and it is possible that this number will be even smaller. Of course, he will benefit those athletes who deserve enough. This is most related to the attractiveness of a particular sector. At the same time, it may even endanger the existence of some clubs in the most difficult situation. The law is not based on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity, which are fundamental principles of the social security system. In this case, it's a dangerous precedent. At the same time, it should be mentioned that it is constitutionally controversial, as it treats athletes equally. The identification of insured persons is very narrow, not taking into account the actual economic and social situation of athletes. Employment contracts are extremely rare, as professional sport is highly exaggerated, and in some cases it is also partly amateur or semi-amateur, and most incomes are based on civil law contracts. The second option for entering the bridge fund is the name of a top athlete, which is limited to a wide range of industries. Therefore, the law does not take into account the social situation of athletes; even more so, if it prevails in this form, it will strengthen the inequality that is even greater in sport as it is in our society from day to day. With everything listed and stated, it is clear that in the United Left we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister with a team, Mr Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! We're Slovenians. We're a strange nation. He's a strange superlative, of course. During this 25-year period of our independent country, we often ask ourselves who our best ambassadors are. Of course, those who do it on a professional basis are our diplomats. But more and more often, the real answer is that our best ambassadors are our, Slovenian top athletes. The fact is that they have done the most to promote our young Slovenian country. This strangeness of the Slovenian people is that we somehow do not understand that according to natural laws a top athlete cannot be superior to his, say, 80s. It is said that we need to find some marriage solutions, in a way give them recognition for their embassy but here we, colleagues and colleagues, are not doing well. Mea culpa, any one of us can say. In fact, the matter is as simple as the simple old Roman river Mensan and the corpore sano. A healthy spirit in a healthy body. Last year, the Christian Democrats contributed their signatures to the first draft law on bridge insurance for professional athletes. At the time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia objected to the proposal for a law, on the grounds that it deviates greatly from any comparable legal regime in the Republic of Slovenia, with its provisions unclear, incomplete and partly contradictory. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia today claims that this is precisely the reason why we need to adopt the amendment or the new law that we are considering today. The problem is that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia states in its opinion that this new law is also not well written. They even express fear of the concept of the law itself. In their view, the issue of conformity between the purpose of the law and its contents is raised. The comments were also highlighted by the Capital Company and some other stakeholders who were expected to participate. It is a pity that the good purpose of the law is again corrupted by poorly prepared text. It is difficult to know in this multitude of comments, amendments and different views on the solutions they are proposing. However, our common goal is as simple as the previously quoted Mensan saying and the corpore sano. Christian Democrats support this bill because they want to provide the athletes with funds at a time when after the end of their sports career they get involved in life, when sport will no longer be their main source of income. This would allow them a less stressful transition to a new way of life. In our opinion, however, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for drawing up such a text of the law, which will be in line with the rest of the legislation and will also be legally and legally correct. It is our duty, colleagues and colleagues, yes, it is our duty to athletes and athletes, on whom we are all so proud, and with them we are very happy to take photographs of the members of the Government in success. Members of New Slovenia will clearly support the draft law on bridge insurance for professional and top athletes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u19	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups and the SDS Group's amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Good morning and good day to all, since we've already seen each other early this morning! With the amendments that have been tabled, we all know that there are more or less nomotechnological amendments and, therefore, at this eleventh amendment, where they are today, I can say that I will not support it right now. But I won't even support the law as such. The fact is, some today have talked about elitism, but the worst part is when someone from an elite group is talking about other elites. And that seems unworthy to me. What is more important is that this law is actually harmful. He's harmful to sports companies because he's going to make sports companies even less money. For the last five years, all Slovenian sports clubs have smaller budgets every year. That's why they won't have him anymore. So we're talking about just a small group of athletes, and the ones who deserve the most will get a special prize. This is that they will be exempt from the capital tax they will create. And that's all this law is talking about. This is what the government knows, most Members of this House know, but because of the fear of so-called athletes who name the Slovenian space, no one hopes to change today. A small attempt was made last week on the committee when you came with an amendment or with a proposal to change the title name to change and repeal this law because you knew that this law was not actually feasible. You knew this, but the Legislative and Legal Service warned you that you must do this with a new procedure and you did not have this power, even though this has already happened in this House and we have already shut down the laws in order to correct the error of the previous mandate. Even in the previous term, I did not accept this and supported it for a simple reason, because the law is not enforceable. There's another problem. In terms of constitutionality, if Article 14 of the Constitution makes it very clear that we are all the same before the law, I do not know why 50 out of 100 athletes must have special status in the country and have an untaxed share of the income they generate by their work. I don't know why that difference is. Why isn't everyone the same? What's most sad is that we all refer to sports. Most athletes won't have any of this because most athletes don't have that much income. So today I find it perverse to talk about how sport is going to profit madly. Minister, your advice, you have one year's time. I know you're not responsible for this marriage, you got it in your hands, now you have to do something. You have one year to prepare a new procedure, a law to end this law. If there is any courage to sport, then prepare something that will actually benefit the sport as a whole. Not just a small group of athletes. Here only power, not civil society, has prevailed, but the union that has provoked and seized the opportunity in the previous term, as the Member of Parliament has said before me, in the last term of its last meeting with Members who in fact did not give a damn about what was actually going to happen, and they have inadvertently put into practice the law that really led to the problems that we have on the table today. Not the previous government, nor the current government has really supported it, nor can it support it – at least internally, when it actually has clear notions that it is impossible to do so. If I had any strength and had any courage, I would say, in truth, that the fund would end up losing him. The taxpayers will pay more from the pension budget, because Kad will give less for those pensions because he will have to put aside here for something that does not belong to anyone. Sports are different, but really different. The way we do it with this law is undignified and mental. This shows that we are really afraid of the public because the public does not understand what we are accepting today in this national assembly. If you have any courage, Minister, do it, you have one year. Make sure those who know it can't stay that way. I can't explain to my athletes at my club why some people will never have the chance to pay into this fund. A minority, if she decides. It's interesting, the athletes could set up such a fund today, and they never did. Why? Because they wouldn't be exempt from tax. And that's the key to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u21	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I believe that a good part of the argument was taken by Jani, although he did not root for Maribor, nevertheless. Since I'm not an educated lawyer because I'm trained in analytical disciplines, basically I'm a science and mathematics technician, I'm interested in numbers. And when we went to the mother body session to talk about it, I wanted to know how many of these athletes there would be. What bothered me at the session itself, the debate narrowed down very quickly only to top athletes, not to what the real law we are amending. Then I was taught by the department that there are currently registered top athletes and athletes in Slovenia a thousand 108. Then somehow we talked further and one of the more prominent sports unionists said that there would probably be about 100 of them in this scheme, and some of them were footballers, and 10 were hockey players, and 30 were handballers. And then somehow the story stops. Once again we have a story, when at this, if you want, legal-form political protocol level we can quote Latin terms, we can quote something else, we save something, but we don't actually solve it. Look, if we go to our first football league, it almost doesn't happen a year ago that there's a club in front of bankruptcy, and then we read in newspapers, like last year or so, how come guys don't get money so they can get a car to go to practice. If we want to take sport seriously now, it might be the first substantive consideration that this will no longer be a matter of some kind in a ministry that covers almost everything alive and is definitely too extensive. I myself would put sport under culture, based on what the MEP from New Slovenia said. If I speak a little more seriously as a parent, I would like to put in a constitutional law that professional sport is prohibited until it is of age, because professional sports from early teens continue to mean a health disabled person. Whatever we're doing, that's right. If we want to paint, if we want to accept it, let us also accept the consequences and deal with them accordingly. When I asked the Kadows, how much will they pay, what will they do, what will they do, they didn't know anything. When I asked them what Jani had just said, they wouldn't tell me. Director Kad just told me that - I don't know, I should look at the magnetogram - I think I've been given 40,000 euros in computer equipment for this, but 80,000 euros will cost them all logistically, or it was the other way around. In short, €120,000 to sort this out. In view of a situation in sport, given the decline in sponsorship money, the intersection of these people is likely to be slightly lower, slightly smaller. On a formal level, we're going to say, "Look, great guys and girls, because we've arranged this for you," and we're not actually going to fix anything. As a professor, I have quite a few people who have been top athletes until a certain age, I can honestly admit that these people are used to working. Then they are perfect students, they do everything in time, with the highest grades usually. But when we talk about this career of professional athletes, we mostly complain that it's one deep minus. And if you look at the parent's deposits and the interest rate account, it's a very deep minus. And this is the fate of the vast majority of our athletes and athletes, and we should deal with it. I told the board a while ago I met one of the legends of Yugoslav water polo at the sea. At times, the majority of the water poloists, I am talking about the gentlemen who are coming to the '70s, almost half of them, especially in the Zagreb clubs, have been graduated lawyers and have been successful in this area. I would hope to say cynically that even more successful than the lawyers who sit in this call of the National Assembly. And serious industries are busy talking about it. This is the way out that within a professional sports career – and I also say this because as long as sport is in the ministry dealing with education, it is done. One of the five best young handball players in the world personally sent me an e-mail as the head of the cathedral to study remotely on the FDV direction of which I was the head of the cathedral. And when I started to explain this to our students in college – and that's why they won't take me back to chess – they said, "Uh, Franjo, you're thinking well, but we're too old for that." Why am I telling you this? Not because the F.D.V. would say "tunk," but because we don't go into this kind of thinking. And even if we leave it aside, the district minister knows what a good ad would be like for college, after all, but you know, every time, the third time I'd say, I'm not going to name this lady, she's going to study up and down. These are some things that some serious companies who want to do in the medium and long term by solving the problem of sports and athletes are dedicated to. In a way like this that we're saving, without such reflections, you're not actually going to do anything about it. And those people who pay up will rather pay up for something else. And these top athletes, here, NK Maribor, when they're in the champions' league, when they get some money, these people have to take care of some basic infrastructure first. A few of these football players went through this money to solve a housing issue, and I know it firsthand. Even if I were a successful athlete, I would rather invest this money in UK agricultural land at the moment, because this is one of the more profitable issues at present. I know that, even though I'm a non-marksist leftist. So this scheme is not going to drink water, as Jani said, this scheme is going to work minus, and we're going to do how we did something good, and we're not actually doing it. I hope that, well-intentionedly, what I said is being listened to, and we will go to solve the matter somewhat more thoughtfully, in the long run, after all, because we are also responsible, especially those who are very fond of taking pictures with athletes and athletes. You know what happened last Wednesday, I'm the only little "spy" in Parliament-Bar there, playing our volleyball team, and in three days, you were all the top volleyball experts, if not the selectors. Let us be serious about showing, let us play a serious liberal and solve this problem. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u23	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I share the concern and opinion of those who say that something has to be done, we can say, at the head, which is the umbrella of the Sports Act. But when we talk about the changes to the Sports Act, not only is this law late, I also doubt that it will bring anything positive and good in practice. I also agree with those who share your concerns about the increasing decline in financial resources for sport. The financing of sport in Slovenia currently depends on the budgets of local communities. We all know that for the past few years, the financial resources of local communities have been greatly reduced for about 10 years. The local communities, however, are the most vulnerable in the field of social activities. Here we see in particular the area of youth, sport, culture, education, and this trend is very worrying. The country essentially contributes to the financing of sport by 15%, and 15% are also European funds. I am taking the initiative to try to better absorb funds in the field of sport in the new financial perspective. We know, I have also asked myself, it will be possible to draw on and it is already possible to draw on the funding under Erasmus Plus, but unfortunately, our sports society and civil society knows very little about this because informing the country is very bad. And I could count it. There was also quite a general debate on the amendment in this debate. Previously we were limited to just 5 minutes, but I would like to say, I would not like to go to the personal level, of course I understand and to some extent accept the concerns of some opponents of this law, including Mr Möderndorfer, as he runs one of the better Slovenian sports clubs, and I know that by adopting this law you will have some work to do. Things will have to be arranged to drink water on paper, to ensure that the status of athletes is transparent. I also support transparency in sport. However, it must be said that this law, which we have on the table and in the adoption process, is internationally the only possible legislative solution that Parliament or government can make for athletes in general. In other countries, laws are similar, they do not know any other solutions. The only other solution that is known is to increase the integral resources in the sport budget. We do, however, know what the draft budget for sport is for the next two years. He's not very encouraging or proud. I take it as one of the experiments and important moves forward, positive that we do something for sport. We must not forget, however, that, at the request of Dr Lukšič, former district minister, who also said that I see these professional athletes and athletes who support or want to adopt this law, and within 14 days, 600 professional athletes have signed their support. I would not say here that someone is talking to someone and that they do not know what it is or how things are, because the athletes themselves have said when they supported this law, that they support these changes and that something has to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u25	Anybody else want to discuss this? First of all, Mr. Wilphan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as this law is concerned, I will not repeat how and how this law was passed, more or less we all know about it, or have you talked about it. This law is not a social law. It is a law that can allow a certain range of athletes some social security during that transitional period after the end of a career when an athlete is looking for a new career and a new career. This is actually more of a savings scheme. I must say that at the outset I was a co-signatory of this proposal, I had a lot of comments in Parliament and actually did not support it at some point. At the time of my adoption here at the plenary session, I was not a member of the National Assembly. Anyway, the law was passed. On this basis, there has also been an obligation for the law to be implemented. In June of that time, we postponed this implementation to November 1st. I must say that the ministry, the minister and two other ministries and all the others involved have made great efforts here that this law has now taken such a form that it is enforceable. The contents remained more or less the same, and there were no changes here. Sport is definitely an activity that is legally fully nourished. Since 2011, since I've been in Parliament, we haven't actually talked about sports, let alone any law. This is the first time we've talked. Already this debate on this law, I hope it will encourage us to talk about a new proposal in this House soon. Above all, I would like to talk as soon as possible here in Parliament about the law on sport. This bill on sports, which athletes are waiting for as thirsty water, I hope that it will soon be ready to be seen, read and discussed here in the National Assembly. This bill on sport will also have to say a lot about the status of sport in Slovenia, the status of sports companies, clubs, other organizations of athletes and athletes, their social status, the financing of sport, infrastructure and more. All members of the National Assembly, coalition and opposition, in fact, we must all be very careful together when we get this law into Parliament, and do everything we can to get a law that will truly benefit athletes who will really solve these problems, their situation and everything else. The problem with sports and athletes is that we never knew how to get together. We were never able to defend our views, our demands, our desires together. I will now compare this with culture – not that I am now making some direct comparison between culture and sport, but cultural people have always been able to express their views, demands, stand behind them, demand. When that budget cake was shared, culture always got a nice piece of that cake. What's interesting is, they've always been dissatisfied, no matter which government, any minister or minister. It's obviously the right way, it's the right thing to do. I'll tell you again, we never knew athletes. Now I'm going to tell you the case. A few months ago, a young Slovenian athlete was in preparations for the World Cup, and at the time of these preparations, she learned a few weeks before the start of the championship that at one of the ministries where she was supposed to get a job, she would not have received this job because she was not supposed to meet the conditions – sports already, but she said she did not have a high school. What did this athlete do? Nothing went on with the preparations, let's say she was starving to get her own, let's say, rights, but she went to this championship and won the title of the world champion. They are, and we are Slovenian athletes. That is why I think it is very important that we finally come to this law on sport, that we also recognize this public interest in this law, that sports and athletes deserve special status, that they deserve special law, perhaps even the one we are dealing with here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u27	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. To resolve the social situation of professional athletes, we need a mechanism that will be sustainable, solidarity and redistributive and ultimately eliminate inequality, not some inequality within the sports sectors and individual athletes. More importantly, it is important to take the problem of root, in the foundation, is said in the organization itself and in the development of sport in our country. Certainly, however, it is not the right way to address the problem of professional sport and sportsmen with the handiwork expressed by these amendments, which is also reflected in the law itself and the way in which this law is drawn up. We must be aware that there is no exception to the economic and social trends that are characteristic of the neoliberalism of Slovenian society. If we look at all the sports industries today, we will quickly find that virtually all professional athletes have been espoused. It is true that the picture we get through the media, and this is a picture of successful top athletes who compete, who win collages at big spectacular events and are popular figures in our media, but at the same time we overlook the vast majority of professional athletes who work, live in very difficult situations. But income equality is growing here, it's huge. The most exposed athletes are well-maintained, they often receive individual sponsorships and in many cases are employed in public administration. This latter way allows athletes to have paid contributions and thus enjoy basic social security, of course that handful. It's great that these people are taken care of in this way, and the problem is that all other athletes, who are a sports plentiful, stay dry. That's why we need a law that will eliminate this inequality and make it possible for social security [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u29	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you, President for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly we pass laws for different groups, some large groups, a little smaller, we changed laws for one person, you wanted to change the constitution for one person. Today, however, we are arguing about whether the problem in Slovenia is one hundred or five hundred, I hope that someday we will be able to say a thousand professional and top athletes. When they finish their sports career, they're thrown into space. I come from personal experience, I have two younger brothers, they've both been knocking on representational selections in team sports, but they've seen that they have to decide somehow whether they're going to have a high-quality sport and a career – if they give health, probably by the age of 35 – or school, education and service. Both have made up their minds, fortunately or sadly — in their profession they are successful — for their profession and education. That's how you decided. Those who choose professional and top sports give up every day, morning training, afternoon training, if they are slightly younger, the whole family suffers, the family budget. When they are older in clubs, they suffer the budgets of clubs, local communities finance their halls and so on. But their time is soon to come to an end, even due to health and old natural conditions. So I really don't see any problem that if we don't already know how to take care of ourselves or take care of ourselves or take care of ourselves one year after the end of our term of office, then no one wants to take pictures with us anymore to take care of at least those top athletes that during the week, and especially on weekends, when the final parts are in team or individual sports, when we cheer and then we want to take pictures with them every week at a variety of events, to at least take care of them. And I hope, for the third time, that we are changing the deadline for the implementation of this bridge fund, that it will truly come to life on 1 September 2016, and that we, Members of Parliament, will then all together, especially the Minister, as the most responsible for sport, as well as make sure that, by 1 September 2016, as many top and professional athletes as possible, they will receive or hope to participate in this bridge fund. It is a fact, however, that if we want professional and top athletes, we need, in addition to their will, especially stubbornness and success, some other conditions. I have made at least three proposals to the Minister on the draft budget, in cooperation with the other ministries, on how to perform energy rehabilitation of sports facilities. I hope that one day we will also have to deal with the law on gambling, that we may try again with the Law on the Filling of Alcoholic Drinks before, during and after sports events. Of course, I also hope that you will support our amendment to allocate more resources to sport infrastructure in the 2016 and 2017 budget. Even if we restore one or two state or regional facilities, we may be able to provide one new Peter Wilphan, Primož Kozmus, Tina Maze, not to mention. I'm so glad we have this marriage ahead of us today. Friday was a very bad prospect. I hope, Minister, that you also appreciate our opposition words, that we have prevented Friday from closing this bill, that we took some time this weekend, both with the support of the Slovenian Sports Unions, the Ministry, and also the Capital Society, which will make this law so acceptable and enjoyable that, as I said, we will not be before the new law, but before a truly living law. I also appeal, given that I am also monitoring the Government's normative work programme, that the Sports Act will be on our benches as soon as possible. I hope that those who give me this information will not hold back to the talk about who is preparing it, and that those who have a desire for a good sport law will do so, but not in their own interests, because the sport law must primarily be directed to athletes and sports coaches, but to such trainers who give their money to raise young and top athletes, but not to those sports officials who, at the time of the various world championships and Olympic games, rent sailboats, so that they can then, after success, take pictures with these athletes, for whom they have done nothing, or even some part of the cake, have been tamed for their own needs. I'll support all the amendments. Article 36 is a very similar amendment, because I believe, as I have already said, we know who prepared them to be as enjoyable and acceptable as possible. Indeed, Minister, I hope that we will not have another amendment to the law before 1 September 2016, but a suitable solution for professional athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u31	Does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendment in general because that is the point? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups and the SDS Group's amendments. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on this Article and this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups and the SDS Group's amendments. Does anyone want to discuss this? Not at all. Then I conclude the debate on this. Finally, I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups and the SDS Group's amendments. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill supplementing the system of payments in the public sector after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! This is a change to the Public Sector Wages Act, mainly due to the inclusion of the President of the Fiscal Council and the members of the Fiscal Council in wage classes, where the news is that the newly established fiscal council can actually start its work. At the time of preparing for this classification, we were primarily wondering what is the appropriate classification in the wage classes for these jobs, comparing jobs with various bodies such as the Ombudsman, Members, Ministers, State Secretaries and other bodies. Throughout the debate, we have come to the view that the most comparable classification according to the nature of the work of the Fiscal Council with the Court of Auditors is that we have also recorded in the draft amendments the classification as the President of the Fiscal Council in the 64th pay grade and for the members of the Fiscal Council in the 59th pay grade. While the Fiscal Council itself does not make any final decisions, its views are extremely important for the management of fiscal policy, we believe that the position of both the President and the members of the Fiscal Council in this country is extremely important. On the other hand, due to the financial consequences, account must also be taken of the fact that it is envisaged that half-time functions will be performed, not because these functions would be less difficult, but mainly because the applicants also want to keep these professionals in contact with their regular work areas, so that their decision-making will also be better. As we say, we propose to include the President of the Fiscal Council in the 64th pay grade and the members of the Fiscal Council in the 59th pay grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u33	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 11th session. Ten. 2015 as a parent labour body, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration with a proposal for a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 35th ordinary session of 11. 9. In 2015, the Commission decided that the proposal should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee took note of the draft law and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Three amendments were tabled to the bill, namely Article 1, the SDS Group and the United Left Group. In an introductory explanation of the articles, the representative of the proposed Minister of Public Administration explained that the draft law was only intended to award the President and the members of the Fiscal Council established by the Fiscal Rule Act. For the President of the Fiscal Council, provision was made for the amount of the basic salary determined by the 64th grade and for a member of the Fiscal Council, the basic salary of the amount determined by the 59th grade, taking into account the fact that the members of the Fiscal Council are employed by approximately 50% of full-time work. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the position and nature of the Fiscal Council, which, although defined as an independent and independent State body in the Fiscal Rule Act, does not go beyond the concept of an advisory working body, given the content of its powers and the nature of its activities. It also highlighted the implementing provision where the shortest possible period of time is proposed, which departs from the normal 15-day period. Members of a committee of opposition members agreed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the non-compliance between the role of the body itself and its evaluation. It was more acceptable to propose that the work of the President of the Fiscal Council be evaluated at the level of State secretaries and its members at the level of ministers. In accordance with the amendments tabled, support was expressed for the inclusion of the Deputy Governor and Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in the payment system, which they considered would help establish its responsibility in the management of state assets. They also did not agree with the applicant's explanation of the level of pay grade, their intended half-time and the nature of the function, which they considered to be comparable to that of the members of the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Court. Members of the coalition members' committee stressed that this is a self-sustaining and independent supervisory body and, as a consequence, important responsibilities requiring professional competence and that the proposed evaluation of these jobs does not appear to be controversial. The representative of the Ministry of Finance further explained in the debate the concerns expressed regarding the evaluation of the work of the President and the members of the Committee that the inclusion of the President in the 64th Wage Class and members in the 59th Wages Class was proposed by analogy by the Court of Auditors on the basis of comparable functions, while the Court of Auditors of Slovenia subsequently determined the appropriate use of public funds, the Fiscal Council would have the task of priorising the compatibility of the public financial policy with the Constitution. Due to the large tasks mentioned above, the evaluation of their work must be comparable to the evaluation of the work of the members of the Court of Auditors and not at the level of the Ministry, as proposed in the debate. The proposed amendments were not accepted by the Committee. He then voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them. Given that the proposed amendments have not been adopted, the Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt the law in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u35	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mrs Koleša is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u36	Dear President of the National Assembly, valued attendance, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you! Over the past year, we have devoted a great deal of time to the adoption of one of the key instruments in the field of financial stabilisation of our country, the fiscal rule law, and within this framework the importance of the Fiscal Council. It would be right for all of us to agree that the President and members of the Fiscal Council should be the top experts in their field of work and must be adequately paid for. We must not neglect that the Fiscal Council, as a previous supervisory authority, will carry out the tasks of assessing the compliance of public finances with the fiscal rule and will prepare very in-depth and professional evaluations or analyses of public financial policy and will therefore have an important impact on the final content of public financial policy. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which is before us, regulates the establishment of a wage class for the President of the Fiscal Council and a member of the Fiscal Council by amending Annex 3 of the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act. The President shall be assigned the 64th salary class and the 59th salary class to the member. Otherwise, the Fiscal Rule Act provides that they are employed for part-time employment primarily in order to continue to carry out their profession in their field of work. At the time of the adoption of the applicable Public Sector Wages Act, the legislator stated among the reasons and objectives for the adoption of this Act: "The determination of individual wages depends on different factors, including the assessment of the complexity of work on the basis of the required competence, the situation on the labour market and the political decision on a case-by-case basis. These factors vary from group to group, as certain categories cannot, for example, identify the situation in the labour market, since the private sector does not know comparable jobs, such as officials, and thus prevails over the political decision factor. For others, the shortage in the labour market is so high that the determination of wages in accordance with the common criteria makes it impossible to obtain an appropriate candidate for employment for this job." And so on. In practice, such public sector activities can have a significant impact on the deterioration of the quality of public services, as the rigidity of wage-setting based on the fairness and adequacy of the criteria laid down results in the employment of inadequate staff in vacant jobs, including those who do not have the appropriate skills to perform their duties. This is particularly problematic in terms of the employment of professionals or other rare personnel, as it should be borne in mind that the public sector is competing with the private sector, not only does it passively monitor developments in the private sector. In determining the salary class for the President and members of the Fiscal Council, all these aspects must be taken into account: assessing the complexity of work and the required appropriate professional competence, the willingness of experts to occupy these functions, and taking into account how many such experts who qualify for the readiness to take responsibility for these functions we have at all. Certain wage classes in the draft law prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which provides for the classification of the President of the Fiscal Council and a member of the Fiscal Council by analogy with the members of the Court of Auditors, are appropriate and doubtful as to the relevance of certain wage classes for the President and a member of the Fiscal Council exposed to the meeting of the parent body. Therefore, we support the proposal to supplement the Law on the Public Sector Wage System of Members of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u37	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u38	Your Honor! Whenever a public sector wage debate is opened, it storms the spirits and divides citizens. Part of them think that wages are too low, the other part that these are too high in terms of the state of the country. If we look at those who have to live with the lowest income, that is €560, and with this salary to take care of the family, we can also turn to the staff of the National Assembly and they will tell you how they live, we certainly cannot say that they live well. On the contrary. They're living hard. On the other hand, if we look at those who, on the basis of their salaries in the public sector, with various fees, still serve unscrupulously dizzy sums, we will quickly be in the position to spend too much on such payments. Let me remind you that in recent years, according to the Supervisor's data, there have been as many as 1.27 billion euro spent on various authors and business contracts, for net amounts. For example, Stanislava Setnikar Cankar, former Minister of the Modern Centre Party, earned more than 600 000 euros in various fees at the expense of taxpayers. Dr. Miro Cerar made close to EUR 400,000 with his fees. Or even more worrying information that justifiably excited the general public that Drago Kos in Nova Ljubljanska banka, which taxpayers had to recapitalise on the basis of poor and harmful activities, received EUR 766 000 in one hour or EUR 218 in one year, which means that only within two hours he earns the lowest wage that some civil servants of the National Assembly receive. And what does the government of Dr. Mira Cerar suggest this time? Before us is the new Law on the Public Sector Wage System, with which the Government wants to place the Fiscal Council in the public sector wage system. At the principle level, SDS has no difficulty in placing the Fiscal Council in that system of wages. More. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed an amendment to include the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Deputy Governor in the law, but the parties to the coalition rejected the proposal. Although it is the integrity and anti-corruption law for officials, they are virtually allowed pure will to pay. Recently, we have heard a great deal from the President of the Government about how the Government is committed to wage policy and that they are obliged to act when deviations occur. But apparently, in this case, the government has the criteria. In view of this amendment of the law, he places the President of the Fiscal Council and his members in the practically highest wage class, which, by the way, comes to functions in the country determined at constitutional level. It is the President of the State, the President of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court, while the Fiscal Council will be the consultative body. With this proposal, the government and the coalition are undermining some logical relationship between the categories in the public sector wage system. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party with the amendment, we proposed that this be changed and improved and the Fiscal Council placed in a lower, more proportionate category or in a lower wage class. Unfortunately, this time the coalition acted on the voting machine system and this amendment was simply rejected. For the government of Mira Cerar, wage policy and remuneration adjustment is a practical instrument that is used when it wants to account with individuals who are not willing by the Government, as in the case of DUTB, while, on the other hand, it does not have a dilemma on its high ethical criteria for the shameless remuneration of its loyal personnel. We will not support the amendment of the law because of all the amendments mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u39	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u40	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! 10 July 2015 This is an extremely important date, since we approved the Fiscal Rule Act, a law with long-term implications for public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, in the National Assembly with 62 votes in favour, as it provides a framework for the sustainability of public finances, with a trend of halting the rise in public debt and excessive current public spending. Simply put: a law that commands that we should not spend more than we create. This rule will be monitored by the Fiscal Council, whose tasks include assessing the sustainability and compliance of the public financial policy with fiscal rules, monitoring the ongoing implementation of the State budget, municipal budgets and health and pension funds, assessing whether or not circumstances have arisen or ceased to allow for a derogation from medium-term balance and report on this to both the Government and the National Assembly. The Fiscal Council itself consists of three members, experts in macroeconomic, public finances or economics. The conditions for membership in the fiscal world are clearly enshrined in the law and are also extremely strict in avoiding any political appointment. In addition to formal education and work experience, business performance, performance in existing jobs and reputations are also assessed. Am I stressing the tasks, conditions of membership of the Fiscal Council and their position? Since the Government, taking into account their responsibilities and the powers of the law that we are currently dealing with, proposes the classification of all three members of the Fiscal Council into wage classes. The appointment of the President in the 64th Wage Class and members in the 59th Wage Class is, according to the assessment of the Desus Group, appropriate in view of the complexity and appropriateness of the tasks for which they will be responsible. We also believe that the proposal for a wage class to be defined in law is necessary. In fact, this makes it impossible to repeat the DUB's profit story. We don't have the names of the members yet, but they'll be known in a short time. However, whoever assumes these tasks is expected to act responsibly, carefully and transparently.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u41	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Following the entry of the fiscal rule in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in July 2015 of the fiscal rule law adopted in the National Assembly, we are faced with the addition of the Public Sector Wage System Act with the aim of placing the President and members of the Fiscal Council in the pay grade. Today we are considering the proposal that the President and members of the Fiscal Council be included in the 64th and 59th wage classes for the performance of the tasks assigned to them by the Fiscal Rule Act. The Social Democrats will support the bill. While an inflamed debate has been opened on the working body in the direction of whether the proposed classification is appropriate. The substance of the bill itself does not explain in more detail why the lawmaker decided to place it in the pay grade. However, it was later clarified on the Committee that this was in line with the Ministry of Finance and that it was an analogy with the members of the Court of Auditors because of the comparable importance of these bodies. Under the Fiscal Rule Act, supported by a two-thirds majority, the Fiscal Council is an independent and independent state body that prepares and publicly publishes assessments on the compliance of public financial policy with fiscal rules. The tasks are also defined and will be carried out in accordance with Article 7, where the position of the Fiscal Council and its tasks are determined, and work will be carried out in accordance with Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Fiscal Rule Act, which provides that the President of the Fiscal Council shall be employed for at least 50 per cent of full-time work and that the members may be employed by the Authority for a maximum of 50 per cent of full-time work. And this possibility of part-time work has also been politicized on the committee. It is therefore a new independent and independent state body. The members will have to put the Fiscal Council on a new footing. And that is why we are convinced that we all have great expectations, because there have been many debates and conflicting opinions about whether to write a fiscal rule in the constitution or not. Much has been said before and at the time of the adoption of the law, and even now we cannot avoid discussing how much pay the members of the Fiscal Council should receive. Under the legislation, however, Members and Members will have a great opportunity to assess their work. And we'll evaluate them first when we're appointed. As you know, two-thirds of all Members are required to occupy the position of president or member of the Fiscal Council. As I have already mentioned, the procedure for appointing members of the Fiscal Council is a fact and an ongoing one. From this point of view, it is also correct that candidates or candidates know how much payment they will receive. However, not only because of the correctness of candidates or candidates, but also because of the public’s failure to repeat the pay gap, as some other salaries have recently been written and discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u43	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u44	President, thank you for your word. The bill we are considering today is due to the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act. The United Left was the only parliamentary group that opposed the bill and fiscal rule in general, since it is an economic law that is a flawed project that is harmful and dangerous because it restricts the state in its development, social and anti-crisis measures. All these effects are best seen in the budget for the next two years. The Fiscal Rule Act also provides for the establishment of a fiscal council. With the law that we are dealing with today, we are fixing the level of wages for the President and a member of the Fiscal Council. The government proposes that the presidency of the Fiscal Council become the sixth best paid position in the country, proposing to be ranked in the 64th of the 65 existing wage classes. In the United Left, we object to the decision of such high wages as there is no argument for this. The government and the coalition are proposing such a high salary because the President of the Court of Auditors also has such a salary. Okay. The government and the coalition thus claim that the Fiscal Council and the Court of Auditors are completely comparable bodies. Let us take a closer look at this claim. While the Court of Auditors is the highest audit authority for the control of all public consumption in the Republic of Slovenia, the Fiscal Council is the consultative body of the Government. The members of the Court of Auditors shall be professional officials and their function shall be incompatible with virtually all other functions and professions. The function of a member of the Fiscal Council on the other hand is some additional employment. The President will be employed for at least 50% and members for a maximum of 50% of the working time. However, the function of a member shall be incompatible only with another public function or with the exercise of control or representation of the budgetary user. The Court of Auditors shall revise the regularity and prudence of the operations of all municipalities, public institutions, public undertakings, state bodies, agencies and all undertakings, banks and insurance undertakings owned by a majority of the state or municipality. Each year it should revise the regularity of the operation of the State, the Health Insurance Office, the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, the appropriate number of municipalities, public companies and could also be listed. The fiscal council only works two ways: it monitors and evaluates public financial policies. If the Court of Auditors finds irregularities, the auditor shall remedy any irregularities found. The Court of Auditors' findings have also resulted in a number of criminal investigations. For example, the last example is DUTB. The Fiscal Council monitors and evaluates. The President of the Court of Auditors, representing the Court of Auditors, shall be the Auditor-General and the President of the Court of Auditors, who shall have a total of 126 staff. The President of the Fiscal Council represents the Fiscal Council and leads and organises the work of three members of the Council and up to four civil servants, a total of up to seven. There is therefore no similarity between the Court of Auditors and the Fiscal Council to justify the decision of the Government and the coalition that the President of the Fiscal Council should have the same salary as the President of the Court of Auditors. Their main argument on the Committee was even that the salary must be so high as it is likely to be only for half-time. Besides having another job, the coalition doesn't care much. They will also have a higher salary than the President of the Fiscal Council only, the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Supreme Court, and the President of the Constitutional Court, obviously do not disturb them. Nor do they mind the fact that it is virtually the only function performed as an additional activity and that all other functions of the 64th pay grade are determined at the level of the Constitution itself. In the United Left, we have proposed a solution with the amendment, which is based on sound arguments. In Slovenia we have an organ or agency that is completely comparable to the Fiscal Council. It is the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, so-called Umar. Its tasks and responsibilities are almost identical to those of the Fiscal Council. They are both monitoring, analysing and evaluating, and the findings of both are the basis for the preparation of government rules. With this amendment, we have therefore proposed that the President of the Fiscal Council be given the same salary as Director Umar, which is the 58th pay grade. Given that the coalition has opposed the argument that if we want good and professional people, we must also offer them an adequate remuneration for work, we propose that the same positions be advocated even when it comes to other employees in the public sector. We therefore propose to the Coalition to invite the Minister of Public Administration of Koprivnik to suspend negotiations with the public sector unions, to release all austerity measures in the area of wages and to immediately abolish all the first 15 wage classes whose height is even below the minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u45	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are dealing with, we can say, a less difficult addition to the Public Sector Wages Act, as it is a matter of determining the wage class for the President and a member of the Fiscal Council, who will carry out their functions in accordance with the recently adopted Fiscal Rule Act. Let me start immediately with support for this amendment by the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. The fiscal council is legally designed as a consultative body, but the role of this body is extremely important in public financial policy and its compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. Therefore, the inclusion of these jobs in the pay grade must be proportionate to the importance of this function. Of course, account must also be taken of the fact that members of the Fiscal Council will be employed in these functions for part-time work. It is time for us in Slovenia to actually come to some realization that good staff, good people in responsible jobs, should also be paid well in responsible positions. Those who do not perform their functions well will be replaced without delay. We understand the fiscal world as actually top fiscal masters using a tool called the fiscal rule that we adopted in the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority. Of course we're expecting top-notch products. If these products are not top-notch, then the National Assembly must also act roughly as I said before: replace masters and those who have a bad influence on the quality of products. There was a broader debate on whether the inclusion of the President of the Fiscal Council in the 64th Wage Class and members of the Fiscal Council in the 59th Wage Class was appropriate and comparable to other functions. In Nova Slovenija we believe that certain adjustments are needed in terms of the comparability of individual titles, professions and professional groups, taking into account their complexity, responsibility and workload. Here we expose as cases the entire professional group, including nurses, police officers, soldiers, professional firefighters and others. In this part it is now the task and competence of the Minister of Public Administration to thoroughly review the pay system and propose appropriate corrections as soon as possible. And we Members of New Slovenia want to help him here constructively. According to the New Slovenia Group, the existing pay system is highly disstimulating for good employees. Their salary depends solely on the classification in the title and salary class, regardless of the work results shown. If we want a more effective public administration, a substantial shift in this direction will be needed. The summit of the Slovenian economy also draws attention to the necessary measures towards a more efficient public sector. At the time of consideration of budgets for the next two years, the Government or individual ministers did not present any concrete measures in the area of wages and salary, in particular in terms of incentives, of course, incentives for good staff. In fact, the only wage measure in the public sector is the release of progress and therefore the higher public financial expenditure. In fact, other changes in this area have not been announced by the Government. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be supported by the proposal to supplement the Law on the Public Sector Wage System. At the same time, we expect from the Government and the government coalition measures for a more efficient public sector also in the area of wage systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u47	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In terms of small and content, not such a negligible novelty of the Public Sector Wage System Act, which we are dealing with at a time when negotiations with public sector trade unions are at their peak, and just at a time when public sector employees need to be convinced that all austerity measures cannot be eliminated immediately. What we're talking about, we've heard about it. The government says that the bill only seeks to award the President and members of the Fiscal Council established by the Fiscal Rule Act. For the President of the Fiscal Council, the amount of the basic salary, as determined by the 64th grade, and for a member of the Fiscal Council, is provided for the basic salary of the amount determined by the 59th grade, taking into account the fact that the members of the Fiscal Council are employed for approximately 50 % of full-time work. In other words, the President of the Fiscal Council may be employed full-time, but not less than 50% of the working time, and the member shall be employed for a maximum of half the working time. Pays or, as the Government says, and rewards for the President of the Fiscal Council only one salary class less than for the President of the Government or for the President of the State. The position of the President of the Fiscal Council is placed in the same pay grade as that of the 64th, such as the President of the State Council, the President of the Court of Auditors, the Attorney-General and the Judge of the Constitutional Court, and is more than, for example, the post of the Ombudsman, who is included in the 63rd salary class, a Member who is classified in classes 55 to 62, but may even be more than the appointment of a minister who ranks in classes 62 to 64. The placement of a member of the Fiscal Council is also somewhat unusual. A member of the Fiscal Council is placed in the same pay grade as the vice-president of the higher court, according to the bill, up to 100 employees, the President of the State Audit Commission, the Advocate General and the mayor of the municipality with more than 200,000 inhabitants. The Law-Legal Service has already pointed to the discrimination between the tasks and powers of the Fiscal Council and its placement in the pay system. The objectives of the Fiscal Council are defined in Article 7 of the Fiscal Rule Act, namely, as a single and independent body that prepares and publishes publicly, I stress, evaluations, and may also make recommendations on the compliance of public financial policy with fiscal rules. So the fiscal world doesn't decide in any way. The assessment of the Fiscal Council does not mean that, for example, the draft budget cannot be adopted. The Government and the National Assembly take note of its assessments and recommendations, and the decision is only left to the Government, which submits these documents to us, the National Assembly, which adopts the budget, its changes or the balance at the end. Therefore, the decision is left to those who are classified in lower wage classes as envisaged for, for example, the President of the Fiscal Council. Why the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has not been taken into account or why the proposals of the opposition Members regarding a slightly lower placement in the salary system have not been taken into account, but cannot be concluded from the debate on the parent body itself. We are confident that, with different arguments from those offered on the parent’s working body, you will be able to convince us that this is not so that the reasons for placing are carefully considered. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, each of us has drawn up a position on this proposal, according to which we will also vote on our own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u49	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendment could not be tabled at the meeting. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Goat for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee is at its 11th session. Ten. 2015 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. We were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the individual article of the draft law and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. The Committee also adopted amendments to the SDS and coalition groups as material. At the outset, the representative of the United Left Group suggested that, in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, that the adoption of the proposed arrangements of the Institute of Civil Service, despite the reasons for the economy and other reasons cited by the applicant for the reasons for the proposed regulation, could lead to an disproportionate intervention in the constitutional procedural guarantees and thus in the constitutional system-wide arrangements, and that the coalition groups, in view of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, had not tabled amendments to Articles 1 to 31, decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The Minister of Public Administration explained in the introduction some of the main issues relating to the proposal for a law and stressed that the applicant had made a number of professional efforts to prepare the text and that the draft law had been technically coordinated, not only by the experts of the Ministry of Public Administration, but also much broader with the representatives of the faculty. There was a broad public debate followed by a proposal for a bill to be tabled in the National Assembly and then faced a strong opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In this regard, the applicant has prepared thorough professional arguments and answers, but there has been no convergence with the opinion of the ZPS. According to the Minister, this is a very important system law which regulates a whole range of different procedures in the country and therefore, according to his belief in the content, a higher degree of consent should be achieved and all possible doubts about the constitutionality and appropriateness of the proposed content should be removed and he committed himself to the proposal for an improved text and individual solutions. In view of the above, the Chairman of the Committee proposed that the Committee should, in accordance with Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Without discussion, the Committee adopted a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u51	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Chairman of the Committee presented in the opening the debate and the views presented by the drafters of the law on the Committee. Let me begin by explaining that, with the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Act, we wanted to amend, simplify, accelerate the way in which the service is served, and also introduce a so-called notification service system. At the same time, we have provided in the law that an official who makes a substantive decision on a matter may also decide on the manner of service and thus avoid situations where a decision may have to be avoided. In some other cases, which have already been introduced in practice, we note that the simpler service is appropriate, that it works well and that there were no problems in practice, and that is why we also wanted to introduce a simpler standard in the area of the Administrative Procedure Act. Among other minor changes, I should also point out that we have also proposed the suspension of mandatory use of stamps, as we consider that this does not increase legal certainty in certain matters, and this is also proposed as abandonment. As the chairman of the committee said in the introduction, the law was very widely coordinated with the professional public, with the representatives of the college, with key experts in this area. We have conducted a broad public debate for the law, gathered numerous views and opinions and professionally identified ourselves. However, after the law was introduced into the parliamentary procedure, we received a very strongly contradictory opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, to which we have expertly defined ourselves, but there has not been any strong convergence of views. Given that such an important procedural law, which is widely used in a number of procedures in this country, we believe that we should achieve a higher degree of consensus. Therefore, in the event that the Committee's proposal is voted on, we also ensure that we will engage conceptually in better substantive preparation of the starting points, arguments and re-wide coordination for such an important law as the Administrative Procedure Act. So we will use similar methods as in the case of the drafting of this law, but conceptually, at the outset, we will clarify the fundamental approaches with stakeholders in order not to see the uncoordinated final proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u54	Colleagues and colleagues! The groups are expected to make their views known on the proposal for a new Law on the General Administrative Procedure, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly. More specifically, we are talking about a bill that not only the opposition, but also the coalition itself on the parental committee, considered inappropriate for further consideration. In this reference to the National Assembly, we are constantly witnessing the rejection of useful legislative proposals and amendments by the opposition, in particular the Slovenian Democratic Party, which the coalition led by the Modern Centre Party rejects without real arguments. The most common reason to reject our proposals is that the Slovenian Democratic Party's legal proposals are incomplete, even contrary to the Constitution, that matter needs to be examined in more detail or even that the Government is preparing a more comprehensive solution. The truth is that these more comprehensive proposals by the coalition are not. The proposal for a new Law on the General Administrative Procedure, which, as I have already said, has been proposed by the Government in the procedure, is literally a disgrace to this government and an additional proof of the inefficiency of the coalition. Let him remember that we had the same marriage on the maternity board on our agenda twice. For the first time, the draft law was transposed on the home committee. Just a few days later, we considered this same law again, although it was clear at the first time that the law was placed on the agenda that a number of concerns were also of a constitutional nature and reasoned observations. Let me point out that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has written eight pages of long-term comments and a number of amendments have been tabled both to the opposition and to the coalition. The proposed government amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act were unanimously denied by the parent committee, as it was found that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. More than the fact that the bill was weak and constitutionally controversial, there is no point in explaining it. He says a lot. Above all, it would be a good thing for the country and in these circumstances that the government and the coalition should ensure that at least at this level they act in a coordinated manner, as this way we are all wasting more time together. However, we call on the coalition to recall this blight when it next will vehemently assess how weak and incomplete the opposition's proposals are.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much. All due respect! Position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act. The General Administrative Procedure Act regulates procedural rights and obligations for participants in administrative proceedings. This law must be followed by administrative and other public authorities, bodies of self-government local communities and public authorities when deciding on legal matters. The key solution presented by the proposal for a novel is the change of the service institute. This institution is essential for the protection of a type of constitutional rights. The service provides constitutional procedural guarantees. It is possible to exercise the right to participate in the process and thus to equal protection of rights. The service also guarantees the right to a remedy and the right to judicial protection. The importance of the service also points to the fact that the Constitutional Court, already in its July 2009 decision, stressed that the service is the most important procedural institution that serves the exercise of the right to information as a prerequisite for the right to a declaration in the proceedings. In this case, the Constitutional Court stressed the importance of distinguishing between the actual and the formal possibility of getting acquainted with the document being hot. The purpose of the service is to enable and ensure that the participant is informed of the actions of the counterparty and of the court and that he is able to prepare his defence accordingly. This purpose can only be achieved if it is in fact ensured that the writing will reach the addressee. The Legislative and Legal Service also draws attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court of October 2002, which makes it clear that personal service is the fundamental element of the right to a remedy provided by Article 25 of the Constitution. In the proposed amendment, the main issue is the provision which lays down the discretion of the official when choosing the mode of service. By a provision which creates legal uncertainty and does not commit the Authority to a certain mode of service and does not provide the party with a reliable conclusion of the way in which the service is served, the legal certainty and predictability of the legal order are, in the opinion of the Legal Service, also in the principle of the rule of law. A particular problem is a new basic method of service with a notification which provides that documents are served on the fifth day from the date of dispatch by depositing in the home drawer, mailbox or in the electronic drawer of the addressee. This fiction, however, is reprehensible. However, the proposal for a law does not set a time limit and a procedure to challenge this fiction. In the Desus Group, we appreciate the efforts made by the Ministry in drafting the bill, but we estimate that the aim of the proposed changes to the service does not weigh the importance of constitutional rights which would be affected by these changes. We will therefore support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, we expect the Ministry to draw up a new proposal for a law that will regulate, in an appropriate and constitutional manner, only those parts of the law that urgently need to be amended. This is a very important law that systematically regulates a whole range of different procedures, so it must be prepared with so much more care and consideration of all possible aspects. In particular, it is necessary to take into account the fundamental guiding principle of the general administrative procedure, namely that the individual is an entity and not an object in the administrative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u58	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your word. Amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act have been public, professional as well as others, more or less well known since the publication of E-Democracy at the beginning of the year. From written and shared opinions in the media and on various portals, questions were raised as to whether it was a major reform or only a minor change, what would be the consequences for the parties in the process and what role the authorities play in these procedures. These issues are on the ground, especially if we are based on the fact that they are a record of a comprehensive system of procedural rules, the rules to be followed by public authorities, local authorities, public authorities. It is also a complex and difficult matter in terms of ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms. Many of the solutions outlined in the proposed amendment to the General Administrative Procedure Act are likely to be the result of an evaluation of the implementation of the current applicable law, especially those relating to service. This is a major and important news in the direction of leaving the service of administrative letters with the recommended post and return, the service by e-mail, the service by correspondence, the shortening of the deadline for the creation of a fictitious service from 15 to 8 days, the extension of the discretionary right of the authority to assess whether the new solution will be effective or better resort to the old, verified routes and so on. At this point, perhaps I would only point out that the savings of around 3 million and more, which the Ministry of Public Administration had foreseen at the time of leaving the service of administrative writings, are not necessarily real, perhaps only from this address. However, the implementation itself could also show errors that would have cost the country a lot, only if we could not predict this amount in advance. Social Democrats do not object to the fact that, in the performance of their tasks, the state administration, the local community and all other holders of public powers are acting in a cost-effective manner, thus contributing to the reduction of material and other costs that also arise from procedural actions. Perhaps, however, the country could agree with the postal service provider, which, by the way, in its 100 % ownership, could agree on a more favourable price for sending administrative and similar letters with a return. Savings in the public sector have been discussed for too long and because of not investing in this segment of the company, we have some of the activities of the service at a virtually sustainable level, as these savings and hypothetical solutions are also within a short period of which the budget year or some budget item has brought a reduction, but such a solution will later prove to be a slightly more costly solution. Your Honor! Social Democrats will support the proposal of the mother labour body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, we would like the Social Democrats to re-examine all comments and to achieve a higher degree of consensus in the drafting of the new law, by which all doubts about the constitutionality and appropriateness of the legislative text will be removed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you, President, for your word. We have yet another example of stigmatism that this government has already enjoyed in this mandate too many times. That the law was reckless, inappropriate and potentially even unconstitutional, we in the United Left have warned practically since the first day the Government sent it into the legislative procedure. This government has already carried out the full mandate of real nomotechnic acrobatics and has put forward controversial proposals which are completely unconscionable and inconsistent with the professional and interested public. As the process of adopting legislative proposals in the Government is increasingly transparent and democratic, the comments and opinions of the professional public and the comments of the government's legislative service are virtually impossible to see. On the Committee, we are always witnessing the same excuses from government representatives who are amazed and surprised at the sharp opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service and the comments of the other stakeholders. And this time it was. First, the point was withdrawn from the agenda of the Committee, because the Ministry should not have enough time to prepare the relevant amendments, as they were surprised by the strong opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. At a meeting of the Committee in one month, where the proposal of the United Left concluded that the bill was not suitable for further consideration, Minister Koprivnikar reiterated that the law should be substantively harmonised, first of all professionally, it was said not only by the experts of our Ministry and others responsible for it, but also by the representatives of the profession, the faculty, that he went through a public debate, that he went through a government procedure, that we "began to deal with the very sharp opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service at the beginning of the procedure in the National Assembly". This last reference was a quote. And that's where the problem comes in. If the functioning of the Government were at least a little more transparent and documents relating to legal proposals were made public and accessible, these claims could be verified. Anyone who would look at these documents could quickly see that the government's opinion of the interested and professional public and the government's legislative service is short-lived. In the United Left, it seemed simply impossible for us to have one legal service to read out even the unconstitutionality, while the other comments would not have been and would have been even aligned with it. For this reason, on the basis of the Act on Access to Public Information, we have requested access to the opinions of the government service. And what did we find? The comments of the two services are almost as sharp, with the difference that the government service has submitted its comments on the proposal three times. The Government did not take into account any comments made by its own legal service. The letter made clear that the Law Service had warned that the solutions proposed could constitute violations of the constitutional principle of equality. It is also clear from the document that the Ministry did not take any comments into account because the government service writes, quote, "as the proposal is more or less similar to the previous proposal, our comments below refer to further clarification of the comments already made." End of quote. To the second conclusion, as if the minister on the committee simply lied, unfortunately, we cannot reach it. Such practices of the Government, ministries and, consequently, coalitions are simply unacceptable, even though the key programming visions and the starting points in the coalition contract have been written down, I quote, "coherent compliance with the rule of law as a condition for normalisation of the situation." End of quote. With such practices, we can be afraid of what the Government and the coalition actually represent under the words "the rule of law, transparency and democracy". In the United Left, we have already tabled a proposal for concrete recommendations for the Government to immediately abandon bad practices and to do everything that the Modern Centre Party has taken up before the elections and then the entire coalition has entered into a coalition contract because of the undemocratic and non-transparent functioning of the Government and the ministries. If you've accidentally forgotten in the coalition, let me remind you. In the Coalition Treaty, you have written down, quote: "The Coalition undertakes to defend, protect and develop multilateral parliamentary democracy, an active response to actual problems, the rule of law, coordination within and between the various branches of government, inclusion and respect for social and economic initiatives, and in all these frameworks, in particular respect for and protection of fundamental social values and human rights." End of quote. Cases where the government and the coalition actually acted according to the record are extremely few. The decision we are about to make today is a clear proof of that. The proposal that the bill is not suitable for further consideration will be supported in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u61	Mr. Kordish, thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The General Administrative Procedure Act is a system law governing the rights and obligations of participants in administrative proceedings. The principles on which the administrative procedure is based are set out in the law in the following order: the principle of legality, the principle of the protection of the rights of the parties and the protection of the public benefit, the principle of substantive truth, the principle of the hearing of the parties and ultimately the cost-effectiveness of the procedure. In Nova Slovenije we are convinced that in this order we must respect the principles when it comes to our view to the apparent competition of these principles. The proposal for a new law interferes with the institution of service in the administrative procedure itself in such a way as to confer discretion on officials in the manner in which the client will be served with a separate document in the administrative case. In particular, it is intended in several cases to be serviced by ordinary mail or by e-mail without safe mail and secure signature. This is both in the service of customers in Slovenia and abroad. The purpose of this proposed amendment to the law is to pursue the cost-effectiveness of the procedure, in particular to reduce the costs of postal services in administrative bodies. The new Slovenia opposes such simplifications of procedural rules that go explicitly to the detriment of the rights of the parties. The service institution shall ensure the participation of parties in the process of the protection of equality and their rights and the right to a remedy and the right to judicial protection. This simplification of procedures means undisputed interference with the constitutional rights guaranteed under Articles 22, 23 and 25 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is an intervention in the constitutionally guaranteed right to equal protection of rights, the right to judicial protection and the right to a remedy. This was also clearly pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The bill is an unconstitutional solution that represents a major step backwards in terms of the protection of the rights of the parties in administrative proceedings, so Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We regret that the coalition did not harmonise this text of the law and that today it would not be awkward. At the same time, of course, we warn the proposers of this law that, in order to improve the economic performance of the procedures, there are still great potentials on the e-mail side, which, despite the legal possibilities, remains severely underutilised. In particular, the percentage of customers, in particular natural persons with a secure mailbox and secure electronic signature, is low in the age of the electronic society. In this area, the Ministry of Public Administration should properly promote and encourage such a way of service through the payment of administrative fees. It will also be necessary to promote competition between qualified digital certificates providers and safe mailboxes. In this area, much has been done so far in our view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr Mitja Horvat will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u64	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members, distinguished Minister, representatives of the Government, everyone's welcome! The General Administrative Procedure Act, as has already been highlighted several times today, is a general procedural law with the widest range of addressees. It shall apply in cases of decision-making on rights, obligations, legal benefits in administrative and other public matters. Its general application is, of course, an essential feature of this law, as has already been said, since it must be handled both by administrative authorities and by other state authorities, by local authorities and by public authorities when they decide on administrative matters and make reasonable use of it in all other public matters. Today we have before us a novelty of this law. In order to regulate the content in some other minor changes, the proposer has, in particular, made changes in terms of service and is attempting to introduce into the system a new basic mode of service, a so-called notification service, which we do not know in the existing regime. The fact that the law has wide scope both by subject and by decision-making bodies is important for the Institute of Hotness in the Administrative Procedure. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that an administrative act which has not been served cannot take effect. The notification service shall be based on the provision of an opportunity to familiarise itself with the documents, either by delivering it in a home or post office drawer or by sending it to an electronic drawer. The new law lays down the time-limits for service, asserts the presumption of service, which, under certain conditions, is challenging. This method also includes the possibility of electronic heating. The proposed amendments leave the most appropriate mode of service to the expert opinion of the official, which takes into account the legal guidelines, the content, the circumstances of the individual administrative procedure. Despite all the advantages of the proposed mode of service, the proposed regime, as has been pointed out several times by the speakers today, may also be constitutionally controversial. While the Authority is not committed to a certain mode of service and the parties are not assured of a reliable conclusion of the method of service, we can, of course, talk to a large extent about the issue of interference with legal certainty, predictability of the rule of law and, consequently, the rule of law. The proposed regulation could constitute a disproportionate intervention in constitutional procedural guarantees, and we stress in our opinion the inadmissibility of the practice that in transitional or final decisions it extends to specific laws governing the specificities of administrative procedures in specific areas, since the General Administrative Procedure Act generally introduces a situation precisely opposite in order for individual areas to handle procedural issues for the purposes of individual procedures. The General Administrative Procedure Act, as has just been said, is an important system law governing the implementation of a whole range of different procedures. For this reason, we believe that the amendment proposal could be made more ambitious. Instead of addressing only matters of service for the purpose of economic efficiency or of starting with this purpose, we consider and encourage the proposer to make the revision of the General Administrative Procedure Act more comprehensive in all forms of communication between the authorities and the parties, as well as decisions on individual administrative procedures. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are aware that improvements in the administrative procedure are possible and necessary, and that we will therefore be Members and Members, despite the efforts made by the proposer at a given time, support the proposal that the proposal for a law amending the General Administrative Procedure Act is not suitable for further consideration, all with a view to recasting the General Administrative Procedure Act in a bold manner, on the basis of what has been put forward so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 18th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a public procurement law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Again, this time I hope that with much more consensus the texts of the law are adopted, but in an area that actually represents an extremely important area in this country. This is the area of public procurement. According to public procurement procedures in this country, we actually give about 3.7 billion assets per year, such is the data from 2014. So it is extremely important how this area will be regulated. The new law before us is already the third substantive amendment to this legislation, which follows the direction of the European Directive and also the findings of practice, the findings of the profession that we have actually included in the proposals of the law. In doing so, let me say that, as we understand it in substance, the Public Procurement Act serves two fundamental objectives: that the use of public funds is economical, rational, justified and that the procedures for the award of public funds are transparent. These are therefore two basic objectives, the cost-effectiveness of consumption and transparency. I also underline these two objectives because, in an extremely broad public debate with dozens of stakeholders with whom we have sat and exchanged views, it has often been proposed that materials which interfere in the regulation of particular areas of expertise be included in this law, in economic incentives or other areas which are not subject to this law, at least not as much as we understand it and as the European directives define it. With regard to the content itself, however, changes in the uniform regulation of both general and infrastructure public procurement are essential and therefore the legal matter is more compact and transparent. The limit values have been corrected to make them more suitable for use in the light of the practicality of implementation. There are also a number of simplified, shortened and very strong support in this law for the further development and application of electronic procurement procedures and electronic counter-offer mechanisms. We have further strengthened the social note in the law, as there are very strong commitments to the contractors of public contracts in respect of respect for labour law and social legislation and other obligations they have towards the country. The deadlines for the award of contracts are being reduced, and we have also reconsidered the complaint procedures in order to maintain the possibility of the complaint in this way, but have reduced the possibility that the appeal procedures will be used as a means of delaying or possibly even abuse of the institution. We also stress very much that no price has been set as the only criterion in the previous law, which is often publicly stated. In practice, however, invitations to tender were often so prepared that the only decision was taken. This often makes sense where the subject matter of the contract can be very precisely defined, in this case it is logical that the price is the only criterion. In this amendment of the legislation that we are bringing before you today, we are very much in favour of the principle of economics and certainly not the lowest price when making an offer. For certain areas such as engineering services, we have even banned the price in the law as the only criterion. In this way, we are very much geared towards a more meaningful long-term economic consumption of public procurement. There has been a great deal of debate in the debates about the relationship between carrier operators and subcontractors, and we also propose in the law a compromise solution for subcontractors' payments to be made when contracting operators so wish. At that time, it is the obligation of the one who pays for the contract. We cannot, however, impose this as an explicit requirement because it would interfere with other legal relations. We are convinced that the matter of marriage is well thought out and a compromise of very different interests. If the conditions are met, we also propose that a third consideration of the law be carried out, provided that there is also an option under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 11th session. Ten. 2015 and its first follow-up to 8. Ten. In 2015, the draft Public Procurement Act, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration, was considered as the parent labour body. Mr Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, said in a supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law transposes the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council governing public procurement in the classical and infrastructure fields into the Slovenian legal order. The procurement system must be based on the principles of freedom, establishment and free movement of goods and services and on the principles of efficiency, efficiency and transparency of public procurement and ensuring equal treatment and competition between tenderers. The proposed law will contribute to simplification, greater flexibility, efficiency and efficiency of public procurement, while informing procedures will contribute to greater transparency of public procurement and to reducing corruption risks. The legislative and legal service highlighted the regulation of two areas of public procurement in the same law despite their regulation in two European directives. It drew attention to the reference of the provisions of the law to the Annexes of both European Directives, since European Directives do not apply directly in the Member States and need to be transposed into the legal order. It further stated that the comments made by the PSC to each article were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups or that appropriate written explanations and additional explanations were provided by the applicant. The Commission of the National Council for State Regulation supports the proposed law, while at the same time drawing attention to the issue of non-payment to subcontractors. The Commission also draws attention to the issue of so-called engineering companies, the long-term procedures for complaints of public procurement decisions and the unusually low price in public procurement procedures, particularly in construction, often stems from the so-called social dumping. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia pointed out the problem of non-payment to subcontractors that "house engineering" often succeeds in procurement procedures at the lowest price, which means that subcontractors get much less, and consequently the quality of materials and costs is lower. Foreign suppliers also often represent unfair competition in procedures, as they are often cheaper due to lower payments to their workers. In the debate, the European Parliament supported the proposed solutions that will bring legal certainty in procurement procedures and the efficient use of public funds. It will be possible to choose the best and not only the cheapest offer, since the lowest price cannot be a quality criterion. The opposition Members listened to the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and considered that the aim of public procurement should be to use public funds wisely. In their view, the proposed law will not contribute to greater competitiveness and reduce corruption risks. They also noted the inappropriate regulation of public procurement in the field of school nutrition, where greater concern should be given to the quality of the food of local providers, which the Committee has taken with the adoption of its amendment. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups, as well as amendments to the Committee. However, he did not accept the amendments of the SDS and the United Left. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u70	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a bill that we will unanimously support in the Desus Group. The proposed law introduces into the Slovenian legal order Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council governing public procurement in the classical and infrastructure fields. Since they contain similar solutions, they will be united into one law and its submarital acts. This is an extremely important law where interests cross on the one hand of operators selling their goods or services, and on the other hand of a country that has to ensure that public procurement is transparent, cost-effective and efficient. Simplification, greater flexibility, efficiency and efficiency of public procurement are the main objectives of the proposed law. The informationisation of procedures will, however, contribute to greater transparency in public procurement and to reducing corruption risks. In the Desus Group, we support provisions governing the handling of abnormally low prices. The tendering officer is obliged to verify such tenders and to exclude the tenderer from the costs of his offer. We also support changes that will significantly make it difficult to complain without cause, since this has been all too present and has seriously prevented the conduct of proceedings. The contracting authority will now have more opportunities to agree on the conditions for the execution of the contract, which consequently means that the procurement will be better adapted to its specific needs. Shorter deadlines are laid down to allow for more flexibility in the implementation of faster and more streamlined procurement procedures. In order to reduce the scope of bureaucratic procedures, all correspondence will take place exclusively through e-procurement and I do not know by mail. For simplified procurement procedures, the so-called e-Certis, a free online information system for businesses and contracting entities containing the different documents necessary for the invitation to tender and the certificates most frequently required in public procurement procedures in the European Union shall be introduced. In order to reduce administrative burdens and to ensure easier access, simplified procedures will also benefit tenderers. In the past, smaller bidders have often been excluded as low-value purchasers demanded high total annual turnover. The required annual turnover must not exceed twice the estimated value of the contract, which will enable SMEs to have easier access to public procurement. In the Desus Group, we particularly support the highlighted social note in the bill. The contracting authority will be able to reserve the contract for certain suppliers for all types of construction, services and goods provided by disabled companies and social enterprises employing disadvantaged workers. In addition, tenderers will still have to meet their obligations to pay workers and their contributions. Those who do not fully meet their social obligations to their employees should not participate in public procurement in our opinion. As has already been said, in the Desus Group we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Various combinations of keywords "public procurement", "corruption" in the search engine give quite a few hits for years ago and generally with a negative sign. With the constant talk of public sector savings, we still find that there are still financial reserves in the public sector, and this is precisely in the field of public procurement. Especially when it comes to multi - hundred million transactions and orders at certain points become impregnable. In fact, the flow of public money through public procurement increased. The billions of euros of public money available have increased the appetites of public funds and that these appetites will have to be triggered by the new investment cycle – we believe that the new investment cycle will have to be launched – we would not have to wake up too much – a new law on public procurement must be prevented. This is therefore a new important law on public procurement, in which different interests meet and cross. And as the Minister has already pointed out on the Committee, there is a conflict of interest between operators and all those who, under the Public Procurement Act, enforce the sale of their services or goods and, on the other hand, the interest of the State, which must ensure that public procurement is effective, rational, economical and, in particular, transparent in order to prevent uncontrolled, including the criminal outflow of public money into private pockets. The legislative changes in public procurement follow procurement reforms at European level and two directives are transposed into the Slovenian acquis. This is one of the important reasons for preparing the novelty of the law. In fact, there have been many changes in public procurement in the past in the European Union, and we are confident that the procurement reform has not yet ended, despite the deadline for transposition of the directives into the April 2016 national legal order. Notwithstanding the directives of the European Union, the direction in which the proposed solutions are going should be highlighted. First of all, I would like to point out the simplification of the rules for contracting authorities and tenderers and the simplification of the procedures for e-procurement. New rules are being introduced to make it easier for contracting entities to apply different aspects of environmental policy, social inclusion and innovation. This part includes green public procurement, as well as social, cultural, health and other specific services, regulation of public service procurement and regulation of infrastructure rules. There is also a particular emphasis on avoiding conflicts of interest, giving undue advantages and competition. With regard to the choice of contracting entities, we are all most familiar with the events which are linked to the choice of the operator based on the lowest price and which later proved to be ineffective with the annexes to the contracts. Social Democrats are aware that interests on both sides, on the operator's side and on the contracting side, but are on the side of the contracting authority of the State, the local community and other public money consumers – here they would point out the important social subgroup, health care – that they receive the best service, equipment, facility or other infrastructure acquisition for certain funds. We understand from the material that the proposal for the Public Procurement Act 3 has been published in e-democracy since the end of April 2014, and the public was also interested, in particular the professional public invited to the debate. Opinions, comments and proposals were submitted. Something was taken into account, a little bit, something wasn't. It is these different interests and views on the scope of public procurement that, in the year of the preparation of the important law, have still left open some of the issues that interested groups have presented to us just before this important law is adopted. Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on public procurement, but we stress that the law itself will not bring positive solutions; more energy will have to be invested in the education of those preparing public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Today we are looking at the third, completely new Public Procurement Act. The biggest problems we have in the field of public procurement are certainly related to the lack of transparency, the suspicion of corruption and the fact that for large projects almost always there remain unpaid subcontractors and unpaid workers and, on the other hand, a series of annexes, supplements and additional payments, which sometimes increase the final value of the project by 200%. Those responsible for this country can never or will not seek out. In order to address the very important issue, it is clear from the level of resources used at the annual level through public procurement. This is €3.7 billion per year, representing 9.8% of gross domestic product. And to make it easier for you to imagine, that's money for a whole other track that we never find the means to. Interests are therefore great, and to this day we have not successfully diverted the money outflows. Exactly how much the state overpays for individual services and goods and how much public money flows into private pockets in non-transparent procedures, we still don't know. The number that appears most often in the public eye is about one billion. So there are at least a billion reasons why we should pay special attention to this area. And so far, this particular attention has not been paid. The comments made by the professional and interested public in the drafting process have not been seen this time. However, the Government and the coalition did not overreact and define a number of comments that arrived at the National Assembly. Nor did the coalition support any of the amendments tabled by the opposition parties themselves. We sincerely hope that it will be different today. Why do we feel that some adjustments are urgently needed? In our view, the government has gone too far in the preparation of the new law. Both directives, which we are implementing by means of a bill, should constitute a basis and a minimum, on the basis of which we would draw up a law that is adapted to our situation. However, despite all the positive developments both in the directives and in the proposal, the word "may" appears again and again in the proposal. This "may" occurs almost every major advantage of the new law. Instead of a clear shift from the lowest price as the only criterion, the proposal thus provides an opportunity to take into account the quality of cost eligibility, environmental and social aspects can also be taken into account. Another important positive shift is a clear definition of who cannot participate in the procurement process. Instead of not paying contributions and taxes to all companies that are in breach of labour law, they are inflexible, have leadership that has been convicted of crimes or have proven to be extremely poor in previous projects, and are prevented from participating in projects financed by public money, the proposal contains a set of exceptions allowing businesses to do business with such companies. As far as transparency is concerned, we could do more. We have the greatest difficulties in procurement of small value, on which procedures are extremely simplified, yet they represent almost two thirds of all public contracts. Instead of establishing that contracting authorities should also publish at least basic data in relation to these contracts, it is also stated here that contracting authorities may publish such data, meaning that the law is prepared so that it can be misused. These are just a few cases that should be dealt with more ambitiously. Without the necessary changes, public calls will continue to be the largest rakrana of Slovenian health. We will continue to have only a handful of projects ending in time for the agreed price and without a bunch of unpaid and consequently failed companies in the whole sub-contracting chain. In the United Left, we have tabled amendments to address all these shortcomings, without which the situation in the field of public procurement will most likely not improve to the extent that we would like to. If our amendments are accepted, we will also support the bill. As we have already said, there are at least a billion reasons for every attempt to improve the existing situation. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Public Procurement Act is one of the most important systemic laws, both in terms of the economy and in terms of public finances. According to the Ministry of Finance, the total annual value of all public contracts is around €4 billion. This is almost half of the annual national budget or if you want it to be more than 10% of the gross domestic product. The share of public procurement in gross domestic product has been steadily increasing since 2010, and it is therefore important, in terms of ensuring the economy and the competitiveness of economic operators, that procurement rules allow economic operators to access public procurement under equal conditions. Public procurement has been subject to the regulation of European legislation since 2004. European legislation is also gradually updating and adapting to economic, social and political development. In this area, new Directives have been adopted in 2014 and should also be implemented into our domestic legislation. Our current internal procurement legislation has been scattered, complex, opaque and, above all, outdated and has not achieved the objectives set, which is an efficient and cost-effective use of public funds while being transparent. The preparation of entirely new legislative bases is therefore absolutely necessary. Today's proposal for a law basically brings some new starting points to public procurement procedures. In particular, simplification of procedures is important for both contracting authorities and tenderers. The contracting authorities also set out a new set of ways to award public contracts and, on the part of the tenderers, facilitate the application for the use of the standard form and, in particular, less documentation to demonstrate competence, financial status and other conditions. An important contribution to bureaucratic simplification of procedures is also electronic procurement, where all paper operations are scrapped while greater transparency. The new procurement rules therefore bring positive changes in environmental policy as well by promoting green public procurement. Solutions are also important in terms of respect for labour law and social legislation, since the procurement procedure excludes those tenderers who do not comply with the obligation to pay social contributions and the salaries of workers. Public procurement may also encourage the employment of disadvantaged workers with regular employers; that is, disabled persons, long-term unemployed, older workers, and social entrepreneurship and disabled businesses are encouraged. The draft law thus prevents social dumping as it enables the contracting authority to identify tenderers at an unusually low price or obliges the contracting authority to verify it. So these are the solutions, the respected minister, the esteemed Government, which we welcome widely in Novi Slovenija. However, in our view, the proposal for a law does not adequately and inadequately regulate the payment of subcontractors and represents a strong step backwards compared to the current regulation of this area. I'm sorry. Although the Chamber of Commerce and Industry participated as a shareholder in the coordination procedures of the Act, its proposals were unfortunately not taken into account. It is a fact that major abuses occur with subcontractors in the field of public procurement. Often, the contractor does not have the capacity to carry out the contract and is practically an intermediary in the procurement process. These are, as a rule, almost no employees and no assets and consequently no liability. When such an operator enters insolvency, subcontractors remain unpaid, which for independent entrepreneurs, micro and small enterprises, which are in fact only subcontractors in public procurement procedures, often means their failure. The proposed legal solution, which leaves payments to subcontractors in the contractual relationship between the contractor and, on the other hand, the subcontractor, is inappropriate for our situation. Sub-contractors must be provided with additional legal protection in such a way that the subcontractor has the right to request payment directly from the contracting authority if he does not receive payment from the main contractor. And in this direction in New Slovenia we have tabled an amendment to Article 94 of the Law and we expect wider support for our amendment, as it is also important to contribute to the problem of payment non-discipline in our country. Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the proposal for a law on public procurement unless our amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Vebrič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u78	Dear Vice President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Today we are deciding on a law concerning a number of authorities at both national and local level and companies; this is said to be a proposal for a public procurement law, small, medium and large enterprises. At European level, the scope of public procurement was regulated by the 2004 envelopes, which needed to be reformed and simplified, and in particular to improve their effectiveness for both business entities – contracting entities and businesses. In February last year, the procurement reform at the level of the European Union was completed and two directives were adopted, one for the regulation of public procurement in the classical field and the other for the regulation of the infrastructure area. As it is known, we must transfer them to our legal order by 18 April of next year, which we intend to implement with one law or with today's proposal for a law on public procurement. News, such as information on procedures, will certainly contribute to greater transparency in public procurement and to reducing corruption risks. All correspondence will be carried out by electronic means without the use of mail. Furthermore, to simplify the overall performance of the contract and at the same time increase the efficiency and transparency of the procedures themselves. In particular, it should be noted that in the future it will be possible to choose the best offer and not only the cheapest one, which has often been heard by a number of well-founded critics. It was also time for public procurement to be simplified for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises and to introduce in a country that would monitor the procurement procedures more fully and inform the audit authorities of the infringements of the rules in this area the desirable principle of transparency. When awarding a contract, the contracting authority will have the opportunity to set social criteria and separate and more flexible rules will be introduced in the infrastructure area. A single European procurement document will help to reduce the number of documents required to select companies. In this way, the provider will submit only a written statement of compliance with the required conditions, financial status and abilities. However, the contracting authority will only have to verify the documentation at the conclusion of the procedure and before the decision on the award of the contract, and, of course, it will be positive that electronic databases will allow rapid access to the requested documentation. There are even more new amendments to the proposal for a public procurement law, as the proposed amendments to the two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council have addressed a number of controversial issues that have been raised so far. Simplified solutions eliminate unnecessary complex procedures, increase legal certainty and promote wider use of green public procurement. However, new developments are making it possible for the public procurement market at European Union level to be as open as possible, which is particularly important during the financial crisis we are in. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party believe that changes in public procurement are necessary and necessary. The bill adequately eliminates the many problems and complications that have arisen in procurement practice. In addition, it brings first and foremost new insights into our legal order in this area. The proposal for the Public Procurement Act will therefore be supported by the SMC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Today we have a new proposal for a law on public procurement. The purpose of public procurement and this law should be based primarily on smart, repeatable, smart use of resources, because only economically, transparent and efficient public procurement will increase Slovenia's competitiveness. There is no way to overlook that in Slovenia we have paid public money by public procurement in 2014 for just €3.7 billion and 9.7% of GDP. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that the existing legislation of 20004 needs to be amended or also harmonised with EU directives. New levers should also be laid down to enable greater efficiency, efficiency, transparency and efficiency of public procurement. We also agree that, by amending the law, there is a need to ensure greater competition between tenderers and, last but not least, to introduce into the law, and to the greatest extent possible, also to inform procedures. We doubt, however, that this bill will fully achieve this. Why do we doubt the Slovenian Democratic Party? Let me summarise the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points out the impreciseness of this law in the sense that this law governs two or three areas of public procurement, which means both for contracting entities and for operators at first a very complex and imprecise application. However, if we look at this law in general, this law is all too focused on the procedures and their choice, and all too little or almost nothing on the preparation of the tender documentation, which is mostly the case for public procurement procedures. Clients are often not sufficiently aware of the options available to them. In the absence of information, contracting authorities shall draw up tender documents that do not allow tenderers to offer an optimal solution. However, the additional risk is that the contracting authority seeks information from individual tenderers and this may already affect the contracting authority’s decision in the design of the contract. Therefore, it will still be necessary to educate public servants on the preparation of the tender documentation and to set criteria for the economically most favourable bidder. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled 10 amendments on our mother's working body, and there is probably not much to stress here that all these amendments have been rejected, even though they were good. Finally, at the home work body, the Ministry also pointed out that it is necessary to approach the preparation of guidelines for better implementation of public procurement in important substantive and procedural areas such as, for example, construction, engineering services and so on. In our view, the guidelines should be prepared at the latest for the implementation of this law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will abstain from voting in the light of these shortcomings of the draft law on public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20 October 2015. I am putting to the debate Article 57 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we propose an amendment to Article 57 concerning transparency of procurement procedures. This Article provides in the current text that contracting entities shall publish a voluntary notice of prior transparency when they award a contract under a negotiated procedure without prior publication or after a competitive procedure with negotiation, unless they have published a contract notice. It also provides that contracting authorities may publish this voluntary notice in other procedures. In the United Left, we propose that this notice become mandatory. In Slovenia, we have the biggest problems with procurement procedures precisely in terms of transparency and economy – which we have also heard in what position today – even when it comes to low-value public procurement, where there is no need to publish any notices. Since these procedures are very subdued and simplified, there is, of course, the greatest potential for serving not so economic practices and clienteleism. For this reason, we propose that, in the second paragraph of this Article, in order to ensure transparency of all procurement procedures, a voluntary notice of prior transparency be converted into a mandatory notification. This achieves at least the minimum necessary transparency, without any interference with the procedure itself, being extended or further complicated. In short, we're not generating any new administrative barriers, we could call it. This does not cause any damage or additional burden, as it is a very simple notification which is published on the portal and provides at least that minimum awareness of the individual public procurements under way. When we look at the amount of resources we are actually talking about, it is clear that there are great interests in this area. But to this day, we have not been able to reconcile the outflow of public money, and we know that we have been facing it and fighting it for 25 years. At the annual level, we are talking about funds of €3.7 billion, representing 9.8 per cent of gross domestic product. If we add to this the information that of all public procurements about two-thirds of low-value contracts, it is clear that this part should ensure as much transparency as possible over procedures and that we are trying to do so with our amendment in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to this amendment of the United Left, I should say that the law provides for a voluntary prior notification of negotiation procedures without prior publication and in a competitive negotiation procedure. The aim of the proposed amendment is to extend this to all public procurements, which we consider to be inappropriate and unnecessary, but let me explain why. In fact, it is only in these procedures that I have mentioned that not all those providers that are interested are directly involved, which in all other procedures are already directly involved and that if, of course, we are somehow under the cover of ensuring transparency, we are actually duplicating work. The purpose of this Article, however, is that those who did not have the opportunity to cooperate directly in order to become aware of this and to enforce the legal remedy. This is how we will not support this amendment in the SMC Group and in the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Usually, we will touch on such procedures in the amendments even more broadly and in this case I will also allow myself precisely because this law is so complex, so demanding, and even in the transposition of these directives, and even in the presentation of representatives of the parliamentary groups, there has been a lot of comments and I think it is right to take a closer look at certain matters on this occasion. I am of the view that, despite the different opinions of both the professional and the user public, this time the transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order is useful and positively assessed despite different views and assessments. Why am I so firm in this position? In particular, because when Directives are directly transposed into Slovenia, this transmission system does not simply leave any doubt and error in implementation itself. For the rule that has been transposed from the European Directive is, as a rule and in practice, easier to understand than the rule of internal Slovenian law, especially if it tries to follow the so-called European legislator, who will normally then be added to the solution of the current issue which is in our national space. This is why the applicant's approach in this regard needs to be welcomed, because in finding the individual importance of the rule of law, the user is primarily made available to the European Union's legislation, the case law, and here also the European Commission's interpretation documents, the European Parliament and the Courts of Justice of the European Union should be added. I think this whole spectrum is very clear about the meaning of this. That is also why I am very much in favour of this position. The fact is that, despite concerns already being expressed, this law combines this so-called classic procurement of goods and services with that which is procurement for the infrastructure area. We have one act. As a rule, this is not so bad in itself, for from a point of view of transparency may even be very good. The fact is, as it is said, that both Directives are transposed into the Slovenian legal order. We are also all aware that these directives must be implemented by April of the following year, 2016. I can say that, in this case, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has done a good job, and I think it is right to commend it, because it is not late for the implementation of the European acquis. This means that the legislative procedure should, as a rule, and also be completed even a few months before that deadline. It is right here that we need to stress why the Government is so hasty in this case; it is in order that these months, which are then from the adoption of the law to the application itself, truly commit themselves to getting acquainted with the new approach, with the new regulation or whatever we say, to inform all stakeholders that after that date they will be truly well prepared. I believe that the Ministry of Field Affairs and the Minister himself will be very committed to making this happen as effectively as possible in the coming months. The new regime, as has been said, brings a type of simplification and legal certainty. This means ensuring easier management and greater efficiency of public procurement and what is important, saving time and resources for both contracting entities and businesses. Here I would like to re-emphasize the burden: small and medium-sized enterprises. This also gives priority to a particular category or institute, when it has been pointed out in today's presentations, it is said that this so-called social inclusion, environment and innovation. All of this will certainly help us users to make the most of the best and not, as has been the case in practice, the cheapest offer. I would not have put races into individual procedures, but I think that some cases should still be highlighted precisely because of the complexity and complexity of the substance of this law. The first issue, which is certainly the fact that the drafter of the law introduced the possibility of introducing a so-called centralised procurement in a particular field in the legislative provisions on central procurement and central purchasing authorities. I think it is right for this to be highlighted in particular, because this means granting the power of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be able, despite the fact that there was a political option on the part of the representatives, that the word "may" has been used too much. However, it still makes sense in this case that the regulation can determine the items for which this procurement is to be carried out, the central purchasing authority, the execution process and everything else necessary to ensure that this procedure is optimal as far as possible. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may, by decision, decide to execute on individual procurement items what we usually know as a general public contract, especially for all ministries, bodies in the composition of ministries, government services and administrative units. Of course, if it considers that joint procurement means tracking the increase, for the first time, and for the second time the efficiency of budget spending. What is very encouraging and I think we should not forget about this occasion is that this can also apply to procurement in public institutions, which are the founder of the Republic of Slovenia. I would touch on other matters, namely the Institute of Public Procurement for Disabled Enterprises and Economic Operators, whose main objective is the social and professional integration of disabled and disadvantaged persons. This means that if the contracting authority decides to carry out a reserved public contract, it must select the tenderer who shows the status of the disabled undertaking or of the employment centre or of the social enterprise type B, or — what is extremely important — it must simply reject the tenderer who does not demonstrate such status. There were also a few words about the protection of subcontractors and the like, and I would like to touch that. We are all aware of the poor experience with the ratio of liabilities and payments of subcontractors mainly in construction business. The proposal for this Act provides that the procurement documentation may require the subcontractor to indicate in his offer any part of the public contract that he may wish to subcontract to third parties, as well as all proposed subcontractors. What has also been exposed several times in the debate of the parent committee; it is also stipulated that the contracting authority is obliged to the subcontractor, if requested and previously agreed with the main contractor, to direct the payment for the work it has done for him. Personally, I believe that this provision will certainly be some kind of so-called test stone in these operations, as it has always been shown that subcontractors have been a party to the process in a significantly worse relationship. It's over. With regard to this law before us, I must admit that I appreciate that the applicant, in this case the Government, has given a qualitative approach to the transposition of European directives into our domestic law. Why am I so firm in this position? Because very little has been said today about the objectives of this law, it was only about the transposition of directives. Aims, if I say very in a grave word, I think the emphasis is on the following. Greater flexibility and simplification of procurement procedures. What is of paramount importance for today's space is the greater involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises in such procedures. It is very important to prevent corruption and to ensure transparency in the decision-making process. Finally, I think it is also important to combine and unify procurement procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you, Chairman. Only a short response to the amendment proposal for paragraph 57. Ambassador Kozlovich has already explained the essential reasons. Perhaps I would add that everyone else is already involved in the process, that transparency is also ensured by the fact that even the publication of contracts, not the tendering and the choice itself, is actually publicly available from this year onwards, and that such a broad introduction of information in all procedures does not actually achieve any new added value, but we would introduce a new one, we could call it an administrative obstacle. This was also why we agree with the views presented by the parliamentary group. Maybe it's about time. Mr Verbič said that if the law is passed, then we are in a time machine, perhaps we can say that we are also happy that it is coming that way before the European directive actually requires that the law be adapted. But this time does not mean that nothing will happen, but we are already preparing training, guidelines, we are preparing the so-called "road show" for those who are preparing public tenders, as it was also said in the introduction, many times public calls are poorly prepared, criteria poorly selected and this is a matter that we cannot prescribe in the law. We cannot prescribe in law that the contracting entity prepare an order that will correctly and clearly determine the best choice. This must be done by the contracting authority preparing the text of the invitation to tender itself, and this cannot be established by law, although we have determined in the law that a market analysis should be carried out, that the price should be determined and that the tendering officer must arrive at it in what way. We are the key elements in the introduction of this law in the training of contracting authorities, preparing guidelines, preparing examples of good practices, samples and making them available today, but in the future it will be strengthened, a service for the world's tender preparers to enable them to achieve some new quality of calls in the future and, of course, also on the basis of this law. The law itself will not in any way alter the competence of the tender preparers, and I think it is important that we understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. In my previous intervention, I have discussed the specific amendment of the United Left to Article 57, and I will now make a few words, in accordance with practice, to this law at all. The problem of the public procurement system is most related to transparency and corruption. Small-value orders are particularly problematic here, which are extremely non-transparent and generally the biggest problem is the adaptability of tendering conditions and associated corruption risks. These are some of the parameters of today's debate. The problems do not arise in cases where the procedure is carried out on the basis of valid calls, but they arise where the rules in force are acted upon or infringed and the problem cannot be solved only by a new law. It can contribute a few steps in this direction, but to create our entire anti-corruption strategy, and around this is a very arrogant move that will not achieve the desired results simply because it is not sufficient. What is needed is to be taken into account for the problems in practice and, as they are said, are more related to the non-compliance with existing legislation than to the fact that this legislation is completely reprehensible. In fact, at the moment, there are only some assessments based on cases that are discovered either by the Court of Auditors or by the media or by the Commission to prevent corruption. In the public eye, this information, which is circulating, is mostly limited to the fact that from four billion euros, as many as the country places in public contracts, about 25% or a weak billion euros in private pockets. We all know how difficult our country's budget is, we all know how high our country's GDP is, and a billion euros What do I mean? [[…]] That billions of euros is by no means a small sum. The payment failure to respect the basic principles of public procurement, the adaptation of conditions, the suspicions of corruption and thus continue to be met in virtually every major project in the country. Motorways are the first such eccentric case here, medical equipment is the second, in public well-known case. The final amounts of such projects are often raised by 200 % and more depending on that original offer. We don’t even look for those responsible for such scams or injured ones, but if we are looking for them, we often don’t find them. Now let us compare all this inefficiency and outflow of funds into private pockets, by allowing each government on the one hand to spew something at all ends, tighten the belts and reduce the scope of the rights of Slovenian citizens and citizens, and, on the other hand, through public procurement, pouring a sloping billion euros through the window with each budget. For example, a purely practical example of what is permitted in us is the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which has established a restriction on public sector entities with companies associated with officials’ undertakings or with their family members, but this interaction has been addressed, however, according to the Commission's data to prevent corruption, violations of this provision at local level in more than 500 instances. What I mean is, once again, I would like to point out that it is not enough to just write something in the law if it is evident at this point that the existing, already written provisions are not being implemented, they are not being respected and the principles remain in the air. So we need to find some other solutions than just juggling with some law. This is not a fight against corruption, it is an illusion of fighting corruption, it is a media pianist move to show certain political actors how anti-corruption fighters are, while leaving the real situation on the ground and in the state apparatus completely porous for corrupt practices. Another problem is the transparency of the legislative process itself. It is said that not only public procurement, but how legislation is drawn up, who affects it, who has made any proposals. Lobby interests are extremely large in procurement procedures, we know that. That is why it should be very clear who proposed a solution and why this solution was proposed and then went on. It should also be clear which provisions it has pointed out to the profession and what might have been the concerns of the public concerned. It is true that the new law is adopted primarily for the implementation of the two Directives, but these two Directives provide a basis and framework for achieving a certain objective and the path is in our hands because it is left to the national level and is taking place within the framework of national legislation. We think that we could do this better in Slovenia than is proposed in this law. Why is it not possible to trace these comments in the proposal that we have in our hands and at the table today? Under Chapter 7, the Ministry listed only everyone who made comments and wrote that the proposals and comments were partly taken into account. This, respected colleagues and respected colleagues, is not just a demonstration of cooperation, but merely a confirmation by the Ministry that some comments have been made, O.K., but were not important enough for the Ministry to characterise them in order to examine them and present them, which is a nuisance of wash-off operations. Members – if anyone – then Members who adopt legislation – should be aware of the specific comments and explanations of the Ministry, even in such a sensitive area, but we are talking about reforming the anti-corruption legislation that arises in public procurement. In general, if we find such institutions as the National Audit Commission, such as the Court of Auditors, the Anti-Corruption Commission, and the municipalities, almost all ministries and so on, but this simply did not seem important to the Ministry today. In the United Left, we believe that a whole new Public Procurement Act should be considered more carefully and by obtaining all comments from the professional and interested public and by defining the Ministry itself with regard to all these comments or proposals. That the explanations of the proposals are poorly prepared and that the presentation of public participation in the preparation of the proposals is completely flawed or, as is not the case today, is happening to this government all the time, but the area that we are dealing with today, as has been repeatedly exposed, is corruption. And in some such sensitive area for corruption risks and for pressure from the various lobbyists, it is totally unacceptable, in our view, that things are done by such hoof and by such principles and practices. If we look at the Court of Auditors' reports, we can see that they are not so much at issue with the provisions of the law itself, but with respect for them. Here, from another point of view and case, I return to my original thesis and its defense. For example, the 2014 report lists the following problems and I will give them a tax ruling: non-compliance with the principles of competition and proportionality; prior to the signing of the contract, no indication of the offer was verified; a tender which did not meet the conditions has not been excluded; the estimated value of the contract has been determined as a premium, or the value of the contract has not been established; the principle of cost-effectiveness, efficiency and performance; the principle of ensuring competition and the principle of transparency – circumstances which constitute discrimination against tenderers have been created, and the most pressing form of public procurement has occurred to avoid the application of the Public Procurement Act. These are just all the problems that come from the law, not from the practice, from the implementation that we are facing. We therefore propose in the United Left that, in addition to pursuing the new law, there should be increased control over the implementation of its provisions, either the new law or the one we now have, that is a prerequisite. As we say, we support the stated objectives of this law, because it is mainly a copy of two European directives, but we are disturbed by the fact that the word "may" has been used too often, which has already been inserted in this discussion – for example, "may exclude the tenderer; may require; may define". Perhaps it would be here where possible to replace this word "may" with the word "mora", otherwise we are just creating a paper tiger, and the fight against corruption is completely lacking in practice. In the United Left, we have already proposed several amendments on the Committee to improve the individual provisions, but we hope that at least today these amendments will be adopted in this audience and this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once again, in a way, I have to respond to the situation that has been outlined, as if in the drafting of the bill we had ignored the opinions of the professional public and failed to take into account, they were untransparent, because the situation so outlined is so diametrically opposite to the actual situation. Let me explain and elaborate. All the proposals that we have adopted in the debate are for the good 300 pages, so you understand that they are not an annex to this material, as they have come, are published on our website as we have received them, indicating who actually sent this proposal. More than that, even in other procedures that we are conducting at the Ministry of Public Administration, we are negotiating systematic monitoring and analysis of the proposals that have been made during the legislative process, and you will probably find it interesting to talk about this with a non-governmental organisation that has the knowledge and capacity to do so. As far as key stakeholders are concerned, we started last year with substantive meetings with stakeholders such as the Court of Auditors and similar, who are very well aware of this material. From this January to July, however, we have had, I can say, countless meetings and with these key stakeholders we have sat at least three times and discussed in depth how to deal with the cases in practice that Mr Kordesh stated and, of course, we understand that the purpose of the law is to try to limit it, but within the scope of the possibility, as you can see for yourself, what the law brings. That is why all those activities for the implementation and training of the contracting authorities that we will prepare or are already being prepared in this process are so much more important to us. Maybe a brief comment on the word "may". See, the choice decision has to be left to the contracting entity, but we have to give the contracting authority the opportunity to exclude, say, an unreasonablely low offer, if we say it as an example, but if we put the word "may" into "must", then the state can be placed in a situation where it has to eliminate the lowest offer, for example, which is completely correct and very favourable. Then why should the contracting authority exclude it, as I repeat it, the two fundamental reasons for this law are, and this law is procedural, that procedures are transparent and that the use of public funds is as rational as possible. If in this case we say the word "mora", then we will violate this second principle because we will not be able to buy any product, some service at the lowest price, even if this service is very correct. So, such unilateral restrictions – why don't we say "I have to"? Because often — and all of us — we have been overstepped — we have been forced to act unconscionably because of the law. This is diametrically contrary to the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. Since we have gone over to the general debate, not after the individual amendment, we would briefly identify ourselves with the other amendments that have been tabled under this law. It appears also after the amendments and also on the committee itself there was a very strong tendency to regulate the social note in the law, as well as to regulate the area with subcontractors. Let me say that, as the Minister has just said, this is a procedural law governing public procurement, but we do not, of course, have to regulate in this law all those desires that belong to another, that the labour area should be in the bond area. As regards the amendment to Article 75, which deals with the exclusion of violators of labour law, let me say that the law contains at least six places in the law itself in cases where such tenderers are excluded or subsequently found to have been in breach of labour law. Thus, we believe that these amendments of the United Left are unnecessary to this article and, of course, we will not support them and, consequently, not to Article 111. As far as subcontractors are concerned, we have three amendments to the United Left, the SDS and the NSI. I have already said, we have arranged to protect them in the beginning; it is said that if subcontractors report that they want to be paid directly, they will be taken into account in such a case. We are aware that in practice there have been very many abuses in this area, but, as I said, this belongs to another area. Such detailed regulation in this law would result in impreciseness, and many could also prevent the execution of the contract itself. We also have two amendments, the United Left and the SDS to Article 84, which are the criteria for the award of a public contract. In one case, it is a matter of taking into account additional criteria, that is to say, in addition to the price, costs and, in the other case, individual types of public contracts or individual facilities. Let me say here that the principle of the Public Procurement Act is that the contracting entity should make the most economical offer. That's what we're after. In fact, there must also be an assessment of which criteria will be chosen, except where the law provides that this should be left to the contracting authority, as it will only be able to determine what is the most economically advantageous offer for him. We also consider these two amendments to be contrary to the fundamental principles of the law itself. Let me also define myself until the amendment of the SDS, by Article 90. This is about making decisions and informing candidates. In fact, the proposer suggests that if a decision is taken here, it is said that the offer itself is set for 90 days, then – in the law it was that within the appropriate time frame or within the shortest time limit – it was to inform those who have not been chosen or have been chosen, to inform, to specify again with the deadline, which we support and in fact we will support. We would just add, however, that it seems to us in practice, when it comes to publishing on an ad board, a five-day deadline too long and usually in practice it is the same day. But it is certainly right that it is defined that it is not longer than five days, so that we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u96	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! For the preparation of this law, which was badly needed, if we look at it in full, I congratulate you. I believe you've put a lot of effort, energy into it, because it's really difficult legislation. I would be happy to support it, as I have said in my position, in all its fullness, but I cannot agree with this position of the coalition's members on the diction of subcontractors in Article 24. If Pahor’s government has done a good thing, in 2011 it has done a good thing, which is the current Article 71, which speaks of direct payment by subcontractors, which is also in German and Austrian legislation. In this we will insist in New Slovenia, because tragic stories have happened when subcontractors, family companies, literally bankrupted, bankrupted, failed, things like this and different things happened, not to talk about suicides and so on. And not just in private business, even when the country was involved. Let me remind you of two cases. Dars, the payment of subcontractors in the construction of a suburban highway or a fast road — these were tragic stories when the state company did not settle what was to be arranged. Opera — when people protested on the day of the opening of the Opera. The proposed solution, Mr Minister, which leaves payments to subcontractors only to the contractual relationship between the contractor and the subcontractor, is inadequate because of past practice. In this place, I really don't know why you went — because you've done everything right in the whole marriage — to change this part that works well, this part has worked well since 2011, and subcontractors have been paid. Because this protects small economies, small entrepreneurship, including those who create added value. In this case, it is also a domino effect. What does it mean if someone becomes insolvent or if the subcontractor goes bankrupt if the subcontractor does not receive the works paid? What does that mean? This means that the entire chain continues to run out of everything and there are tragic stories as we have seen in Slovenia. Mrs Kozlovich made her argument regarding the payment of subcontractors, so that they could agree at first. However, see, the fact is that in most cases the subcontractor is a weaker contractor against the contractor and will not require the direct payment of its accounts by the contracting authority, because in this case it is reasonable to expect that the main contractor, logically, will condition the subcontractor in a public contract also by not requiring direct payment, otherwise not its subcontractor. This will make the main contractor conditional. Those who demand direct payment — okay, you will not be my subcontractor, and people will lose their jobs! Therefore, I would really like to explain why you decided to change this part, because you know that this will not work in practice. These introductory provisions, as Mrs Kozlovich said they could first agree on a direct payment, this is just written and it will not work. The performer will say, I repeat – you will not work for me, but I will get another. And the market is full, no problem. So whoever asks for a direct payment will not be selected as a subcontractor. The current regulation of the direct payment of subcontractors, which was adopted in 2011, is one of the better solutions of the Pahor government, despite that tragedy, but this is one of the better things. From then on, we no longer face such problems to such an extent. According to your new proposal, it is said that the contracting authority will pay the contractor and then the subcontractor. The money will get to the contractor, and there's a big question ahead. From practice, I repeat what has happened during this period, we can say from practice that this will not work. That's not gonna work. See, for example, large construction companies, from Vegrad, Primorje, SCT – because these are the same stories! It's the same story. This is what you want to bring back to these stories. I hope not. I really hope not. Therefore, keep in mind that these preliminary provisions, or at the outset, as it already says in terms of direct payment, will not be a good solution, which you expect to be able to agree on, as this will not go through. This arrangement is essentially impossible. I suggest that you may correct this article of the law yourself or follow our amendment, because it spoils the impression of the whole good marriage. The law is good. I've already listed in my position, we're introducing a series of good things. That's all you've done to cheer him up, literally. You really shouldn't have to do that. For this reason, I would also appeal to the coalition that it takes into account the good changes adopted by your last government, dear Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We have all now chosen this practice to talk a little bit about the law in general, although O.K. I will therefore continue in this spirit. Dude, if you'd only listened to the first part, you'd think this marriage was meant to be broken, but only for a bag. I'm so glad I heard the last sentence. The truth is, marriage isn't so bad, but you fucked it up a little bit. I will say so; the law is extremely good, given that they do not hold to the claim that comments and proposals have not been taken into account. There were quite a few of them. It is a race, however, that the law is somewhat written on a different concept than the previous law or novels and proposals. It is much more open, so I miss the other thing and I am sorry that the ministry has not done so, but it still has an opportunity, but it will have to be very quick to amend the law on the State Audit Commission. At the same time, if we had both marriages, we could actually see more meaningfully how such a marriage is needed. What I wanted to discuss for myself was, above all, that I liked the fact that the coalition, with its amendment proposal, had actually changed this short chain, as far as nutrition was concerned. In particular, because I have seen a contribution today that is so much more important, he says, there is today a consultation on the national expert advice on ensuring and implementing the quality of organised children's diet. In fact, data to actually get more than € 119 million of food in the Slovenian space in one school year – but given that it is only primary schools and kindergartens, we can say that it is a huge amount of money or also a huge potential. If 10 years ago we had 40,000 students who were feeding on these meals, we already have 120,000 today. And if ten years ago these meals were cooked by 4,000 chefs, today they're cooked by 12,000 chefs. In short, it is an enormous conglomerate where funds are channelled and managed by public procurement. While I have one problem that I have opened and troubled on the committee itself, today I do not intend to torture you with this, it seems very important to mention that this short journey is still important in terms of food producers in the Slovenian space, which we are promoting so much. This is why we are commended for changing this thinking so that we should not use the word "local" and therefore have brought another dictatorship, which in fact means that we will use local foods or these short paths. Finally, in the implementation of certain directives, which, of course, we are following as members of the European Union, it seems very important to me that we are aware of the following facts – that is, before the last meetings, the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia Marić Lah mentioned the following: "There are only two short solutions or proposals where we can sell more local ones. See, Slovenia needs to adopt new legislation on public procurement. The representative of the European Commission told us at the Council of State: You are too papal, too directly transposing all directives into the Slovenian legal order. You must be innovative and put your interests in the transposition of this legislation. And now there is an opportunity for you to transpose into this public procurement legislation such conditions that we will be able to place more locally produced food." With this I just wanted to tell you that you are doing the right thing and I suggest that you try to think locally in the next implementation. Everything that's local doesn't even mean it's mud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much again, chairman, for your word. Since all the debaters in front of me have touched on the law a little bit more and not just the amendments, I will also discuss it in this sense, and I will also touch all our amendments at once and then I will no longer be involved in the debate. I hope that today we are all aware that we are adopting a very important law. Look, 3.7 billion a year we spend public funds on these public procurements. 3.7 billion is not enough money. I just hope that this law will also somehow guarantee these principles when we wish to refer to them, there is an economic, transparent, effective public procurement that will increase Slovenia's competitiveness, which we still need, and we want it to increase. I have a bit of a dilemma, it is said, that the Law-Legal Service, on this proposal, has had quite a few concerns, has little criticism, given that this law governs two or three areas and that this law will initially be very complicated for both users and subscribers. I completely agree with that. As far as I can see from my previous job these public contracts, I must say that employees, or those who are preparing a public contract, need a lot of knowledge, which I hope that the Ministry will organise suitable education for both the contracting authorities and the contractors themselves; both will need some additional education. In view of the fact that the law is not so brilliant, I must also say that we have dealt with the work of the mother, and I think that there were quite a third of the amendments, and we have not only warned that the marriage is poorly prepared, but also warned the coalition. I'm going to quote that "there are a lot of amendments here, maybe there's an appeal at both legislative and legal services both in the government and in the National Assembly, that maybe before the law comes into consideration to connect, somehow reconcile things before they come to work." I very much agree with this statement, and perhaps this proposal will fall into the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled ten amendments on our mother's working body and it is true – Mr Möderndorfer, since he is no longer in the Chamber, said he was not true that none of the amendments had been adopted. It is true that none of the opposition amendments were adopted! That's a fact. I think we had some pretty good amendments. For example, we have made an amendment to Article 35 so that the unit price offered by the contractor is not public information, but that information is accessible to all tenderers participating in the procedure, but it does not need to be made available to the public, even in Slovenia or the general public. In Article 73, we also proposed that the contracting authority should, in the event that it does not decide to award a contract in lots, which, of course, this law permits, and it is only right that it should allow this to be explained and included in the tender documentation. We have not proposed anything else, just an explanation that the contracting authority has decided not to award the contract in whole. The amendment was rejected. However, the contracting authority shall notify the contracting authority of the decision to award the contract as soon as possible – this is what you now have in Article 90. I mean, as colleagues from the United Left have discussed before; a law that has no clear purpose has such a law in its text or the word "may" or "as soon as possible" and this 90th article says "as soon as possible". What's "as soon as possible"? It's for me to go to lunch as soon as possible. For someone, it's as soon as possible that something happens tonight, for someone, it's in one, two, three, four, five days, one month from now. I think that the proposal that we have put forward, and as far as I understand the coalition colleague now, will support this proposal of ours to inform the contractor, for example, within five days, and that is indeed a meaningful amendment. We also wanted to define more precisely the obligations of both the contracting authority and the subcontractor with regard to the conclusion of their contracts in Article 90 and, consequently, to regulate their payment non-discipline. Once again, I would like to say to the ministry, at home, to the heart that it is necessary to prepare for the implementation of this law, which the honourable Minister has promised that they will be ready for the implementation of this law. They may make this work easier for both the contracting authorities and, of course, the contractors. Please also do not forget the education of subscribers in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I have to take another call because, it seems, I was too much of an argument earlier that I would somehow convince the ruling coalition that direct payment by subcontractors is extremely important or why it is important to comply with our amendment. First, for a plastic comparison without demagogies. Look, when you go to the bank for a loan or any contract, for example, to a bank that is an extremely strong contractor, we will get the conditions set by the bank on the table. Under these conditions, you will sign as a contracting party. The bank won't say, but now we're gonna coordinate a little. So, even in this case, the contractor is a stronger contractor than the subcontractor, and once again, if the contractor says no, it won't work that way, so it won't work. Or, "If you ask otherwise, you won't get a job with me. The market is full and it's not a problem, but someone else will get it. But the problem is, someone's literally gonna get pissed. Our amendment, I hope you've read it, or else I can bring it to you now, and we can bring it together, it's really well-intentioned. And not because of ourselves, we don't care, but because of the subcontractors. I read it once again: "The proposed amendment strengthens the position of subcontractors in procurement procedures, while improving payment discipline between economic operators. Since the subcontractor is generally a weaker contractor, the main contractor will also be able to condition the contractual content of mutual cooperation by not requiring direct payment from the contracting authority, otherwise he will not receive the transaction." Pika! But from here on out, I really want to pay attention, because this amendment does not undermine your concept, nor the concept of direct payment, nor any concept, but the extra guardian is this amendment. Note: "For this reason it is also necessary to provide that the subcontractor has the right under the law to request payment directly from the contracting authority if the main operator of the account or the interim situation has not paid him, provided that he submits to the contracting authority the invoice issued or the intermediate situation and the statement that the main operator has not paid him the account." So once this is not paid it's a direct matter, the protector is this amendment, and it doesn't break your concept. And it's about people, and we can withdraw this amendment, but it's not about us. This is what has been warned in the past and we do not want to be in the situation again when subcontractors of our state-owned companies will be unpaid. That's not what we want. That's why Pahor's government, I went back to my brother's explanation, and I brought it in, because it's a shame that a subcontractor of a state company like DARS is unpaid! Yeah, well, where do we live? And it's a security guard that's not gonna happen like that in the future. So, Minister, I really ask you, not on your own behalf, not on behalf of the opposition, New Slovenia; on behalf of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen who actually want it. First of all, I will not read the contents of the amendment, because it is a demagogism, but I do not want to be more demagogic at this moment, I just ask you to listen to this amendment, in no way changes the concept of this article, is an additional guardian, and even less is the concept of the whole law, which – all commends you and your team – you have prepared it responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. With regard to the subcontractor, the honourable Member, we have dealt very much and very seriously with this issue and there is no intention of putting one or the other in an unfavourable position. Let me just say that we are not aware of this, but we have come to a great deal of familiarity with foreign systems, so that another country would have the payment of subcontractors regulated in the law as mandatory. However, we also know the cases of other countries, you have cited Austria, we know their system very well, where we also allow arrangements for direct payments by subcontractors. Last but not least, the decree of the amendment that you cited is virtually identical to article 631 of the Bond Code, which provides for this – if you prove that you did not receive payment from the contractor, then you can do the same under the Bond Code. However, in order not to say that the standard of subcontractors has decreased, anyone, the main contractor, the subcontractor, the contracting entity may require direct payment and this is taken into account as a fact and is being paid directly. And secondly, it is stated in the law that no final payment can be made unless the payee obtains confirmed statements from subcontractors that they have been paid. That's a very sharp standard. In the event that it does not do so, the operator may then come or be included on the so-called list of unwanted operators, which means that within three years he will no longer be engaged in the public procurement system with the country, which I think is a rare option. Last but not least, even in practice, if we look at it, the situation is improving significantly and as radical and unique measures as they have been in the past, I believe that they are no longer necessary because otherwise protection is provided. But at the same time, you can know that, as drafters of the bill, we have also faced the extremely harsh demands of the Chamber of Commerce, which required exactly the opposite, that direct payments go to the one who is the carrier of the business, who assumes all responsibility and who is the signatory to the contract. This solution, which is now in law, is, in our opinion, a reasonable compromise that does not go beyond interfering with the Law itself on public procurement in bond relations, to adequately protect subcontractors so that the possibilities and at the same time to enable the one who is the holder of the business and responsible to actually provide the means to ensure that the work is also properly carried out. Perhaps just a few brief comments that I will not continue to burden the debate. As far as legal protection is concerned, variants are already being prepared, being explored. It may also be interesting for Members to know that, at the level of the European Commission, a comprehensive analysis of legal protection in the field of public procurement is being prepared, which will also serve as the basis for the new directive. Of course, we are closely following what will happen in this area. As far as the provision of local supplies is concerned, Member Möderndorfer said that this law now makes it possible. It is even more important that a better regulation on green public procurement is also being drawn up on the basis of the law, which will further define this. With regard to the diversity of the law, the duality of the law and the number of amendments, Members are partly associated with the fact that we ourselves have a bit of a problem when, in certain cases, you look at the content of the amendments, the views on how to write something down, different legal services look at it differently. On the other hand, as regards the merger of the law on classical public procurement and the procurement of works, those contractors who are actually dealing with both cases have somehow welcomed the fact that matter is uniform. If we look at the purely nomological or bureaucratic obstacles, this law is now shorter than both laws. Shorter than one of the last two. It is said that more than half the shorter marriage material, although complex, is still considered clear enough. However, as far as unit prices are concerned, we have also worked hard on this proposal, and we have explained it. The fact is that, given the transparency of the procurement, the contracting authority must publish the quantity and the contracting authority must also publish the price at which it delivered it. You can easily get a price per unit out of this. In order to prohibit the publication of the price per unit, it is also in line with the position of the information officer, in our opinion, perhaps in certain cases, justified and meaningful, because we are protecting the interests of someone who can offer a very favourable offer, but we are in the interest of the public, of public procurement and here we ourselves have had greater concerns. Similarly, the information officer was of the opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Gardener, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u106	Dear Minister, thank you very much for the explanations and the answer that, with my amendment, mistakes or even though I do not see them being written somewhere in this law. Now I'd like to read you article 631 of the Bond Code. See what it says: "Co-workers can refer directly to the employer for their claims and ask him to pay them out of the amount he owes to the creditor at that time if they are recognized." And if they're not recognized, who recognizes them? The performer! The problem arises. Look, you were talking about Austria. Other countries across the European Union are the fact that payment discipline is also a matter of culture, if you want, is a matter of some normality. This was not the case in this country and it is necessary because it is not our culture – but here I do not throw in the same basket of all craftsmen, all entrepreneurs, all operators or great economic society – God forbid! But there are many who have served such and different receptions and subcontractors. Okay. I do not believe that the law ensures that subcontractors will be paid. We will insist on our amendment. However, I hope that the time will not show that we were right and that the Social Democrats also had a direct payment of subcontractors in 2011, okay. But I don't want this to happen again for the next two years because you haven't accepted our amendment. It's good for you to have the whole opposition on the side as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Dušan Verbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I'd only like two words. I think that the distinguished New Slovenia fellow was, in a certain way, a satisfactory response from the Minister of State. I also wanted to say a few words on this subject, but I think that this has been said so beautifully on the content side that it would be superfluous. I decided, in particular, because a respected colleague from the opposition party said that there was no agreement in this procedure to any amendment to the law tabled. I think it is right to say this, as Lillian's colleague mentioned earlier, your proposed amendment to the 90th Article practically confirms everything, and I think it is right that there is a 5-day deadline. I don't think there's a dilemma here. One amendment was also tabled at the second reading by an unrelated Member for better implementation with the coalition partners, and it was agreed and withdrawn, so I want to say that it is not clear that it has not listened to some individual proposals that were very serious, and I will mention it, it was to the 84th Article of the Act, where the area of this so-called green environmental purpose, where it has been incorporated and will also be implemented in the law, as a consequence of the resolution on the national food policy programme, because it is precisely in this respect that the additional justification for the eighth paragraph of Article 84 allows food produced and processed in the local environment to be included as far as possible in this procurement process, but does not exclude it from the producer to the user. This means that it has tried with very substantial arguments to listen, and I think the coalition has also done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 57? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Jernej Vrtovec has already talked a lot about the protection of subcontractors. The fact is what we all know today. First of all, we have different lobbies. Secondly, if we look at the construction sector, I talk to these people a lot, thank God some healthy Slovenian construction companies have also survived the worst crisis. The ones who weren't healthy, we know where they landed. Health now complains that we have many construction companies, i.e. the main operators who get the job, that they are essentially companies that have nothing but a living room. These are the facts. And then they contract with subcontractors, they squeeze them at a price, and then there's an accident that this main contractor actually gets into financial difficulties or whatever else or subcontractors he's playing, he doesn't pay the subcontractors. And see if any sub-contractor, any micro-enterprise, espionage or part, construction, whatever, if the payment goes out, I don't know, say 20, 30, 50 thousand euros, it just puts him on his knees and it's over. The end is with this company and the end is with the employees of this micro-enterprise, this subcontractor on the payroll or with which he has a contract of employment. And that's the problem. I don't want to speculate here about who's stronger here, but the result is clear, whether it's the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I believe Mr. Secretary has good intentions. I believe and I hope we have good intentions all of us here in this hall. But in life things run much differently than we imagine. The fact is, we have contractors who have nothing but a living room, but, yes, of course, some other computer. And that's the problem. As long as the price is that basic criterion, the lowest, clearly, the price is that basic criterion for getting a deal, and then you can calculate that much if the price is that much, then you say, so much remains for me, and the rest I divide for subcontractors or for that amount I squeeze. And it can't go on forever. That is why we in the New Slovenia Group have already considered that it would probably be good for us to agree at some meeting, perhaps the Committee on the Economy or some other committee, on how to resolve these anomalies that we see happening in practice. Not just in the construction sector, but somewhere else. The construction sector is probably somehow best known to all of us. That is why I will also support our amendment, which goes in this direction to protect subcontractors. You have to get paid. Who's to protect them? Are they going to sue the lead contractor? At that point, he'll be gone. He'll close the company. This is then some domino effect, some chain reaction that's triggered, and the result is that these small businesses are simply falling down on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 57? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to debate on Articles 75 and 111. Since the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors is linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 111, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 75 and 111 and the two amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 84 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left and the amendment of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude this debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 90 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 94 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have already made some substantive points in my previous debate, but now specifically on the amendment of the Slovenian Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats to Article 94. What exactly do we want to achieve in this regard? The proposed amendment strengthens the position of subcontractors in procurement procedures while improving payment discipline between economic operators. We know we have major problems in the area of payment discipline. Since the subcontractor is generally a weaker contractor, the main contractor will also be able to condition the contractual content of mutual cooperation by not requiring direct payment from the contracting authority, otherwise he will not receive the transaction. For this reason, colleagues and colleagues should also provide that the subcontractor has the right to request payment directly from the contracting authority, provided that the main operator of the account or the interim situation has not paid him, provided that he submits to the contracting authority the invoice issued or the interim situation and declares that the main operator of the account has not paid him. The proposed solutions will prevent abuse in cases where the main contractor did not have the capacity to carry out the contract and was practically an intermediary in the procurement process. Often these companies were almost unemployed and without assets, and consequently without liability. In practice, therefore, it has happened and it happens that the main contractor has entered insolvency and subcontractors have remained unpaid. In order to avoid further such practices, additional legal protection of subcontractors is necessary for such cases. I have said something about this, as has already been said, and I now repeat that I am sure that the Minister and Vice-President of the Government, Mr Koprivnikar, has the intention and sincere will to protect subcontractors. But as I have explained for a long time, today we have in practice a situation where subcontractors simply draw short. These are small, micro-enterprises, espies, parts, and, as it were said, if such does not receive at the annual level one payment from the main contractor at the level of, say, 50 thousand, it just collapses it. This is about trying somehow to solve these anomalies that are in life, in practice, legally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 118 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law on amendments to the law on prostitution following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, to further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering is a law by which we want to simplify the procedures and implementation of the law based primarily on the experience of practice, which, when introduced, has actually begun to regulate volunteering for the first time in our country, also to evaluate its contribution, and in this way we can see how important the contribution of volunteers in our society as a whole is under this legislation. Above all, we would like to suggest that it is easier to keep records, to simplify content and also to report on the implementation of volunteer work, but we also want to shorten the set of data that we have found that we do not necessarily need to collect them and thus burden voluntary organisations. The law, however, has yet another important supplement, which will enable voluntary volunteering to be easily made possible in the case of operators, because they have been in a somewhat awkward situation so far, since an agreement with a voluntary organisation had to be concluded. Now, too, volunteering in such a public institution will be able to properly carry out voluntary work and report it, thus opening the door to volunteering more widely in public institutions as well. On the one hand, we constantly weigh during this dilemma. Since volunteering is a self-initiative activity for which one chooses to do so, any regulation and restriction of this activity is, in some ways, counterproductive because it has a negative impact on this free decision on the exercise of volunteering. On the other hand, monitoring this voluntary work is also very important so that we can actually assess its contribution and its impact. I assure you that all the changes we are proposing here are very carefully coordinated and thoughtful also with the final volunteer organisations, with the opinion of the volunteers themselves, reflect the situation on the ground, and we believe that in this way we will maintain an appropriate balance between the monitoring of volunteer work and the recording that volunteers are adequately protected and, on the other hand, we reduce this impact by means of burdens so that the regulation of voluntary work or its monitoring can have a negative impact on the extent of volunteering, which is extremely important and we can only wish in such turbulent times. We are also pleased to note that the scope of volunteer work is increasing very much, so we are also regularly monitoring the indicators that are now possible, and we hope that this trend will continue in the future also because of the burdens brought by these changes in laws today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u115	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you, Chairman for your word. The Committee shall be held at the next 11th session. Ten. 2015 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Volunteering submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. He took note of the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation. Amendments from the SDS Group, SMC, Desus, SD and the United Left have been tabled in the bill. Mr Dusan Radic presented the Committee's amendments. Mr Koprivnikar, representative of the proposed Minister of Public Administration, said in a supplementary explanation that the bill merely complements the regulation in an area that was regulated for the first time by the Voluntary Act. The adoption of the law alone was a step forward, allowing statistical monitoring, assessing its added value to society. The draft law thus facilitates reporting on voluntary work carried out and regulates the exercise of organised volunteering in public institutions without the conclusion of a written agreement with a voluntary organisation. With a view to further encouraging volunteerism, the bill amends the date of the award of the prizes to volunteers, since on 5 December, as an international volunteer day, it was quite inappropriate, since many other events took place during that time. He said that a strategy for NGOs and volunteering and changes to the law on NGOs were being prepared. The Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the non-compliance of the draft law and made comments on individual provisions. Amendments have been prepared by the coalition, taking due account of the comments made by the ZPS. The Commission of the National Council of State has supported the proposed amendments. As a problem, it has been pointed out that, despite the maintenance of new records, comprehensive data on the number of all volunteers and the extent of their work in the country are still not available. The representative of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs expressed satisfaction with the proposed law, which they actively participated in and, in their view, effectively eliminates the anomalies of the existing law, administrative obstacles, and reduces fines for voluntary organisations. The representative of Slovenian Philanthropy explained that they had cooperated and supported the drafting of the bill, but at the same time pointed out areas that had not yet been regulated, such as the health insurance of volunteers and the payment of contributions to the pension fund. He also highlighted as a problem the transitional provisions of the draft law that its validity in the area of the establishment of information solutions relating to the reporting of voluntary organisations on voluntary work delays for one year from its adoption. In the debate, members and committee members expressed support for the bill, agreed that volunteering as a way of life should be strengthened mainly among the younger members of society. The sharing of organisations with voluntary organisations and organisations with a voluntary programme was an issue and it would make sense to place only a volunteer and not an organisation that is usually designed to satisfy the individual’s interests. A proposal for a regulation on corporate volunteering was also submitted, which would mean that in addition to regular work companies, employees would also be organised to benefit society as a whole. Members of the opposition members pointed out that it was important to be careful that during the austerity measures voluntary work would not replace the functioning of the social state and make a proposal for an amendment to the Committee in order to include volunteering as an optional proposal in primary school, but that the members of the committee did not vote. In response, the Minister of Public Administration explained that two areas had been separated from volunteer organisations and voluntary organisations due to the risk of formalisation of the organisation in the draft law. Voluntary work shall be carried out in both cases, but the difference between voluntary organisations being encouraged by the State and public institutions is not. The Committee adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD Group and the amendment of the Committee. However, he did not accept the SDS amendment. In accordance with Article 128, the Committee voted on all the articles together and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text is supplemented by the draft law and is included in the proposal itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Chairman, again for your word. First of all, allow me to thank all volunteers who are doing this human work and helping people in distress today, especially those who are now doing this work in collecting places, border cities and helping migrants who need their help. Let me point out in the introduction the support of the Social Democrats' Group for the proposal of the Law on Volunteering. After years of implementation of the Voluntary Act, the law was enacted in March 2011, the first novel to simplify reporting on voluntary work. The management of organised volunteering in persons governed by public law or private law who have obtained a concession for the provision of public service services and whose operation is defined by a special law as non-profit, without the conclusion of a written agreement with a voluntary organisation that provides and trains volunteers and organises voluntary work. In short, some administrative tasks are being carried out that contribute to the more successful functioning of voluntary organisations. Volunteering is an extremely important segment in our society and we can assess that it is developing and that the work of volunteers and volunteers is increasingly valued. Voluntary work also has a positive impact on individual development as well as on the development of society as a whole. Volunteering is increasingly appreciated. The main solutions were coordinated and coordinated in the Interdepartmental Working Group, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry and NGOs and Ipés. In view of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, some articles have been supplemented, even improved. We are confident that volunteering in Slovenia will continue. We estimate that, after a period of consumer cold, a severe fall to stone, a financial and economic crisis in people has regained awareness of the concerns of our loved ones. Not only do I think of my relatives, it has raised awareness of the strengthening of common values, such as aid, solidarity, society and, from this point of view, also contributed to a more positive view of the world. If we are not alone in difficult times, we can also find our innovation and personal growth and satisfaction in volunteering. We must not allow volunteering to be abused and can join individual NGOs in order to ensure and increase the protection of volunteers. An interesting debate was developed in the debate on the working body itself, which shows that a number of issues are still open. Ideas were also given on how to continue to develop volunteering. We believe that the adoption of the Voluntary Act in 2011 has laid the foundation on which the activity must be further developed. As I mentioned in the introduction, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u120	President, thank you for your word. We can all agree that volunteering has great weight and importance in society because it contributes to the development of values of solidarity and to social progress. The problem arises at a time when volunteering, humanitarianism and solidarity begin to replace the functions of the social state. It is voluntary and must remain only a complement to the public service provided by the State, and at the same time the state should not allow itself to be translated into volunteers by lowering the level of public services. And these are already happening to us. Unfortunately, more and more people are living below the poverty threshold, but at the same time, employees need to turn to humanitarian organisations for aid packages. On the one hand, there has been a series of tax reliefs for the rich and for the capital over the last few years, while on the other hand social expenditure has been reduced. All the hardship of the people, which is primarily the fault of the country with the wrong policies, is then compensated by such and other voluntary organisations. The implementation of the social state is again unfortunately increasingly left to us within the framework of various societies, institutions, humanitarian, charitable organisations and so on. How important the well-functioning network of volunteers is, the most visible is today when we are facing a refugee crisis in our territory. At the same time, it should be stressed that volunteering is slightly less visible, and therefore no less important, the way shows its value and contribution to the daily hardships of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens, who are often helped by volunteers even earlier than the country. And that says a lot about the people who are doing this, about these volunteers that we are discussing today. It also says a great deal about our society, which encourages and creates, not least of all people who are willing to jump to the aid of a fellow citizen, a fellow human being. At the same time, this also says a lot about the policies of the Slovenian state. In the United Left, we believe that we have all too many areas that are being implemented at the moment, not to say, by volunteers, while we should set them up and provide them first. Saving policies, which began with the crisis, are still continuing. We have recently addressed the 2016 and 2017 budgets, both of which are still highly cost-effective. We are really concerned that there will be an increasing burden in the light of this on the shoulders of NGOs, charities, humanitarian organisations and all other organisations that, through volunteering, are actually holding up the principle of Slovenia as a social state today. If these volunteers and these organisations were not present today, we would very quickly be in a situation where the word "social" in Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution could be deleted in practice. And this is also evident from official data. The data show that in 2014 almost 10 million hours of volunteer work were carried out. If we measure this in euros, it will be worth €105 million. And that information is more than eloquent and really impressive. And it is unheard of, today so much more, because we are four years after the adoption of the Voluntary Act, that we do not have an appropriate development strategy to clearly define further guidance and guidance and ultimately an incentive for the functioning of voluntary and non-governmental organisations, as far as content and financial support is concerned. Amendments to the legislation have also been announced in all the annual volunteer reports since 2011 and we have finally awaited the law. However, the adoption of the development strategy has been postponed again – now in 2016. And yes, I was talking about 2011 and today we are five years later, and this discussion is barely moving from a previous point. We will support the bill in the United Left, but we expect the Government to adopt the promised strategy as soon as possible, which will only define measures to promote volunteering and also a financial perspective, since the resources allocated to the development of volunteering are certainly insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u121	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u122	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Volunteering is a form of work performed by a person of free will and does not receive any payment for the work done. This covers a significant proportion of the needs of people in society and contributes to a better life of an individual or group in society. Volunteering also protects the interests of those who are in various ways threatened or pushed to the side of society. Most voluntary work is carried out in a formalised form through membership or work through institutionalised forms. However, we must not forget the great scope and importance of informal volunteering, which is carried out directly between the volunteer and the user, often also in the form and in particular in the form of inter-neighbourly assistance. Special volunteering takes on meaning in times of natural disasters or crises, including financial and economic ones. This has proved to be true in our country in the last few years, when volunteers or voluntary organisations have to a large extent assumed obligations which are, however, in accordance with the legislation of the State and its institutions. Here we also stress the importance of humanitarian organisations, such as Karitas and the Red Cross. However, the State, through its services at that time, was unable or could not fully control them. It takes both paid and voluntary work to cover the needs of people. Both areas must recognise the contribution and value of each other for the welfare of the community. Volunteers and paid staff shall contribute to each of their positions and to their potential for the welfare of society. That is why in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we support the work of volunteers through various institutionalised forms, both through voluntary organisations and through other organisations implementing the voluntary programme, and their alignment in areas related to voluntary programmes. We support the proposed administrative burdens of these institutions on reporting on voluntary work. At this point, however, we would draw the attention of the Government to the need for a greater exchange of information, and in particular to the involvement of voluntary organisations and organisations with a voluntary programme in the preparation of legislation on social, migration, health, education and other areas. In this part, the role of voluntary organisations is important, as these institutions are most aware of the needs of people in the individual field and the shortcomings of existing legislation. As a result, they can also make proposals to improve legislation in a particular field. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, we also draw attention to the irregular status of voluntary firefighters. Their work and assistance in the face of natural and other disasters, such as floods, fires, stomachs, traffic accidents and so forth, can be appreciated when circumstances actually arise when we need their help. And then immediately, we forget about them immediately. Their status remains unregulated in terms of job management and payment of such absences at the time of urgent volunteer work. It is on the part of the Government or the coalition that this area is being regulated immediately, as we are witnessing an increasing number of accidents where there is and will also be irreplaceable for the future assistance of voluntary firefighters. In this place, let me also mention the mountain rescue workers who come to the parliamentary groups and talk about the problems they have in their working environment. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be supported by today's amendment and the amendment of the Voluntary Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Dusan Radič has the floor for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you for your words, Prime Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's been four and a half years since the Voluntary Act was passed. This was adopted on 3 February 2011. In the case of the application of the Law on Volunteering, it has been shown that the majority, especially those individuals who have to comply with the provisions of the law daily, have found that certain simplifications are needed or that there is a need for simpler solutions. Over the years, since the adoption of the law, it has been shown that certain legal provisions simply do not allow for the effective implementation of organised volunteering. A few more numbers on volunteering in Slovenia to facilitate the performance. For 2014, the voluntary work report was issued by 744 voluntary organisations. The total number of volunteers who carried out volunteer work and are listed in the register on voluntary organisations is 84 thousand 206. The increase in the number of voluntary organisations and the number of volunteers was mainly due to Slovenian philanthropy. According to data collected for 2014 in Slovenia, the majority of volunteers were women, which is 52 thousand 40, representing 61.8% and 32 thousand 166 men. This distribution can also be explained by the high percentage of voluntary organisations that have entered the register and are active in the field of social activity, where the representation of women is significantly higher. The data refer only to voluntary organisations entered in the electronic register of voluntary organisations. From this we can conclude that the data collection does not show a complete real picture of the volunteer hours actually performed in specific areas. We reiterate the importance of entering voluntary organisations in that register, thus helping to ensure transparency of the operation and visibility of voluntary work in Slovenia. The maximum number of volunteer hours is carried out by persons over 60 years of age, amounting to 7 million 640 thousand 88 hours, representing 75.97 % of all hours. Thus, when the official data are collected, the most volunteers in Slovenia are among the older population, as shown by past studies, which were only available at prices. According to the estimated value of volunteer work set out in the Regulation, in 2014, more than €104 million of organised volunteer work was carried out, as the colleague has already said. I would like to express all the recognition and praise to all those who have contributed with their volunteering to the general social well-being in the Republic of Slovenia. I would also like to commend the Ministry of Public Administration, which, in its relations, is exemplary in the field of volunteering, is working with the public concerned, and NGOs agree. The proposed amendments to the Voluntary Act are mainly about simplifying reporting on volunteer work, regulating voluntary work in public institutions and making some minor changes such as removing additional administrative burdens. With the amendment of the Voluntary Act, organisations that meet all the legal conditions will report to Apes on their voluntary work and will be entered in the register of voluntary organisations. This register will also include public service providers who will adopt a specific voluntary programme and will be subject to the same rights and obligations as voluntary organisations. The welcome change is also that of defining what is called corporate volunteering, which is the activity of employees in a particular company, which the employer allows them to do a wider job after their own decision during their working time. We support the amendment of the Voluntary Act in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor of the Slovenian Democratic Party, for which Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings again to all those who are now in the hall. When we talk about volunteering, we speak historically of one of the oldest activities that strengthens solidarity and assistance, promotes the development of human capacities and lifelong learning, ensures social cohesion and cooperation in solving individual and social problems. Over time, volunteering developed and eventually gained some formal forms. We also supported the Voluntary Act in 2011 in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Like then, we have proposed a number of amendments to the amendment in question, following the fact that volunteering is a national value and that volunteering should be encouraged and not create administrative barriers to volunteer work. We are pleased that the Government has recognised that our amendment proposal to the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Law in 2011, with which we wanted to extend volunteer work, was good. At that time, Borut Pahor's government and ruling coalition, unfortunately, did not support him. At that time, we also proposed a number of additional solutions to address the administrative obstacles of volunteers and voluntary organisations, which were not supported. Many are now leaving, but not all of them. We also regret that our amendment has not been adopted to include volunteerism as a social value in the educational system on the basis of the criteria and criteria laid down in the rules on education and education. Regardless of the latter in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support the proposals for solutions to the Law on Volunteering as they remove administrative obstacles and simplify the management of volunteer work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u127	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings to Minister Koprivnikar and you, colleagues and colleagues! Although he has voluntary work and organisations working on it for a long time, we have only adopted the long-awaited law on volunteering in the European Year of Volunteering, which is in 2011. The law lays down minimum conditions for voluntary and voluntary organisations and for the organisation and performance of voluntary work. However, practice has shown some shortcomings in this law, which need to be addressed so that volunteer organisations can be even more effective in their work. Thus, the proposal for a new law will simplify reporting on voluntary work, introduce easier record-keeping and voluntary work in public institutions, and remove some other administrative obstacles. Your Honor! Let me also briefly summarize a few statistical subtitlings that show how large volunteer work is in our country and also confirm how important this work is. In Slovenia, according to the 2014 Voluntary Work Report, 744 volunteer organisations have carried out more than 10 million volunteer hours, worth more than €104 million. This is a truly large number that clearly confirms the great contribution of volunteers to general social well-being. Statistics also show that almost 76% of volunteer work was done by people over 60 years of age. Therefore, allow me to stress the work of older volunteers in the Older Ageing Project, led by the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia since 2004, by the start of mutual assistance between the elderly in 1995 and the Slovenian Philanthropy. About 3 000 500 volunteers and volunteers from 260 pension societies participate in this project. By doing so, they have helped to improve and manage situations in which old and disabled people live in their home environment or in their homes. It is also the tendency of our society to keep people in their home environment for as long as possible. I must point out that in the Desus Group we are aware of the importance of voluntary work in managing the social pressures of all people who cannot help themselves or with the help of institutions out of distress. Therefore, on this occasion, we thank all volunteers and volunteers and all humanitarian organisations for their humanitarian work. We are pleased that the proposed amendments to the law are also supported by voluntary organisations. We support the proposed amendments to the law and believe that we will make it easier for volunteers to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u129	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 2.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u130	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Your Honor! The President of the First Multilateral Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Prof. Dr. France Bučar, died. Prof. Dr. Bučar was the leading figure of Slovenian independence, he was a great man and a great patriot. As the first president of the democratically elected assembly and one of the writers of the Slovenian Constitution, with his work and reputation, with his exceptional energy, keen intelligence and sound criticism, marked irreplaceably the process of political pluralisation and Slovenian independence. Even after withdrawing from politics, he remained a critical observer of the situation in our country. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are deeply grateful to him for everything he has done and for his work and courage, and especially for his belief in independent and independent Slovenia in difficult times. With the death of Professor Frances Bucar, Slovenia lost a great patriot, a great Democrat, and lost the father of the people. In memory of Dr. Butcher, I ask you for a minute of silence. Dr. Butcher will be kept in permanent memory. I'm truly sorry for his loved ones. Your Honor! I inform you that today an hour after the vote in the lobby of the great hall will be possible entry into the sad book, and the sorry book will also be open tomorrow, Thursday, 22. Ten. 2015, between 9 a.m. and 17 p.m. on Friday, 23. Ten. 2015, between 10 a.m. and 15 p.m. In addition, I inform you that the sad meeting of the National Assembly will be given to Dr. Frances Buchar on Friday, 23. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on bridge insurance of professional and top athletes by emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2015, published on the e-club. Since the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 11 are essentially the same, we will vote on them together. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group and the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 11. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. Since the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 36 are essentially the same, we will vote on them together. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 36. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. Since the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 39 are essentially the same, we will vote on them together. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group and the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 39. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. Since the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 44 are essentially the same, we will vote on them together. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group and the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 44. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 11, 36, 39 and 44 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Law-Legal Service or by the Government that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, chairman. The law on bridge insurance of professional and top athletes is intended to regulate the social security of athletes. I'm afraid that's not true. Social security includes labour, health, housing, education and other dimensions, but the bridge fund, which this law seeks to establish, is nothing more than a tax-stimulating savings fund, which, on top of everything, is intended for a few hundred athletes at best. But it's possible that this number will be even smaller. And, of course, it will be most beneficial for those athletes who deserve enough, which is usually most connected with the attractiveness of the industry, while at the same time it will conditionally endanger even the existence of some clubs that are in the most difficult position. The law is not based on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity, which are the basic principles of the social security system, and in this respect constitutes a dangerous precedent. At the same time, it should be mentioned that it is conditionally controversial because it also treats athletes differently. The determination of the insurer is very narrow, disregarding the actual economic and social situation of athletes. It should be further pointed out here that employment contracts are extremely rare, as today's professional sport is also highly exaggerated or, in some cases, partly amateur or semi-amateur. Most incomes are based on civil law contracts. The second option for entering the bridge fund provided for by this law is the title of a top athlete, which is also extremely restrictive for many industries. The law before us does not take into account the social situation of athletes. Moreover, if this form is implemented, it will further strengthen the inequality in this social subsystem, which is growing in sport as it is in society as a whole and from day to day. There is no way we can support the proposal in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u132	Kamal Izidor Shaker has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much, President. Sport is an important part of our everyday life and has a special status. The retired and present athletes are ambassadors of the Republic of Slovenia and deserve a decent hearing and a proper thanks for this contribution to the Republic of Slovenia. In today's very short but substantive debate, as well as in the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, we have found that both coalition and part of the opposition are united in one. This is the regulation of the area of social security for professional and top athletes after the end of a rich sports career. While we are all well aware that the law on overprotection insurance for professional athletes is not optimal, it is necessary to welcome all the efforts of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to draft such a bill which will allow for the appropriate placement of legal content in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and which, on the other hand, addresses some open issues of the current law. As stated above, we will unanimously support the draft law on bridge insurance for professional and top athletes in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u134	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be given by Andrej Couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u135	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I would like to say that we were already among the co-signatory and co-proposals of the aforementioned law in the previous reference to the National Assembly of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. This is due mainly to the fact that all politicians, of course, like on Twitter, congratulate the Slovenian athletes when there is a good achievement, we take pictures with them. But you know, we also have this moral duty and the obligation to do something for our athletes. And also on our policy to provide conditions for the lives of athletes after the end of their careers. We believe that the proposed law is a step in the right direction, one of the few positive signals against Slovenian sport and athletes since the time of independence, and to date, of course, we will support it. The state must provide conditions for the integration of athletes after the conclusion of a career in society, both in the field of education and not only of self-reliance, but in particular of life. If we look at a small international comparison, in most Member States of the European Union a sportsman who wins a medal at the Olympics is already getting a month's salary or a month's salary, from which he can then live to the end of his days. Unfortunately, we do not witness this in Slovenia, although we have excellent athletes. In the debate that took place today from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. and was very rich in substance, we have found that this is the only possible step forward and also towards our athletes and athletes, as the international comparison shows that, apart from the increase in resources in the integrated budget for sport, other measures are not in fact possible. In view of what is happening in the integrated budget, that the funds for sport are falling dramatically, let's say in 2016, only 100,000 euros are available for sport infrastructure, which gives you something to think about. We may be able to rebuild three small football courses or some basket other than an update, but that makes us think. So the state's attitude to sport is machete. We all need to get together and do something. I also thank the coalition, which has overlooked that the policy on sport is very bad, negative, and I hope that even when we talk about the area of sport in the future, even in this mandate, we will know, as we have done on Friday and today, that we will be able to step together and give our athletes the best possible future and, above all, good conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u136	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As early as last year, the New Slovenia Group was among the signatories to the law on bridge insurance for professional and top athletes. We have also announced our support for this new law today, which will remain. Colleagues and colleagues, our top Slovenian athletes are the best ambassadors of the country of Slovenia. It is through the top athletes of our country that many countries and many earthlings have actually learned for the first time that there is a country of the Republic of Slovenia on this globe. And it is good that we properly arrange their bridge insurance. It's a very narrow segment. Of course, the New Slovenia Group will pay attention to the implementation of the law. This one must be in the spirit we imagine today. If the implementation of the law goes in the direction of abuse or awkwardness, we'll make a lot of noise. Today, we are pleased to have some unity expressed here in this hall. We will also contribute our votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u138	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. In the Desus Group, we are aware that this law is not ideal, that this law also has its shortcomings, but we have decided to support this law. Slovenian athletes are really special. And I'm going to repeat the case that I said in the debate this morning, and there were very few of us in this room, which is understandable because we were here yesterday until two o'clock in the morning. A few months ago, a young Slovenian athlete in preparations for the World Cup learned that at one of the ministries where she was supposed to get a job, she would not have this service because she was not supposed to meet all the conditions. Sports yeah, but I'm not supposed to have high school. This meant quite a problem for this athlete: there will be no income, not much, but no social security, no health insurance and no pension insurance. Nevertheless, this athlete did what? She continued to prepare. She did not strike hungryly so that she might get to her right, but she continued training, went to this world championship, and won the title of the world champion. And that's what I'm trying to say. Such are Slovenian athletes, such are Slovenian athletes. That is why I think it is right that they have a special status, that they have a special treatment also in the name of public interest, and it is right that, at some point, we also confirm a special law, such as this, which we all hope together, that they will come to life if they do not come to life, and that, because there are also certain guardians in it, they will simply be eliminated. However, I must say this, the country or budget will not have any costs. We will vote in favour of this law in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u140	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. In his own name, Micah Kordish has the word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, reciprocity and solidarity are the foundations of social security. We do not have reciprocity and solidarity, and we do not have some broad basis for social security, and the Act on Crossing Insurance for professional and top athletes is lacking precisely in this point of reciprocity and solidarity, says the vast majority of athletes effectively leave without social security. But I would really like to explain my voice on another point, on a procedural point, how this change has changed over the last few days. In June, the coalition extended the validity of this law, and some others then joined us in preparing corrections in the meantime, although it was clear that the law, which was so wrong in principle, could not be rectified. Then the changes took place together for so long that the amendment of the law is now enforced through Parliament through an emergency procedure. The most bizarre moment was when this law was considered on the committee where the coalition parties prepared amendments to change the title of the novel to the Act repealing the Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional and Supreme athletes. In doing so, however, they wanted to draw out all the articles from the 3rd to the 48th, saying the entire preliminary law was effective. This was the case at the head of the party which, as the main political commitment, offers respect for the rule of law. And then the weekend came, and literally this weekend, the coalition MPs changed their minds, and apparently the marriage was back to being good enough to be voted on at today's hearing. However, they added a provision that the law would enter into force in September 2016, in order to allow them to amend and correct it in the meantime. This, colleagues and colleagues, is a parliamentary farce and I cannot support it in any way. Even less, because this farce is portrayed and forced by a party who boasts of its legal knowledge and its legal profession, in practice it is the most negligent of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u142	Mr Andrej Chuš has an explanation of vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Although I didn't intend to discuss these two extra minutes myself, look, as an ex-sportsman and even a judoist, I think I have to take a call. The case of Tina Trstenjak, cited by Mr Wilphan, is tragic in my opinion for the Slovenian situation. Two or three weeks before the World Cup in Judah, the sportswoman learned that the Ministry of Defence would not sign her a contract of employment because she did not have a fight at the high school. Whoever knows her knows why she doesn't have this high school. Because he trains two to three times a day. I also understand that if you're so high up in sports, so busy, there are problems. But what did this athlete do? She grabbed a job. She went to get ready even better. Although all journalists in Slovenia, sports officials also spoke against it that it was without connection to send it to the World Cup, she went to the World Cup. And what did she do? She became the world champion of Judah. She's achieved even better results than Urska Jolnir. And you all probably know Ursko Jolnir. It seems incorrect to me that the Ministry of Defence is promising something first, and then this particular athlete was deceiving it. I don't know if I'd have experienced it, I'd have said, "Go somewhere!" Let me go on. Speaking of this law, former Minister Dr. Luksic said: "Sports and athletes, let us know how many athletes will support this law when it was first proposed." In fourteen days, 600 athletes were supported by this law [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u144	The explanation of vote in his own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, beyond what I can't call a pathologist around athletes and sports because you don't listen to what you're saying. I have to say, after all, that we would have a different legislative body. In this building, the legislative body is supposed to adopt laws in this room, which normally regulate a systemic area even when it comes to positive discrimination against which I personally have nothing. In the debate, in what my colleague Kordish said, it somehow turned out that, in fact, I can't say anything other than the weight of the vast majority of professional and top athletes. We have, as the gentleman from the department said on my right, currently a thousand 108 registered top athletes and athletes, unless something has changed in a few ten hours, and it is estimated that around one hundred will pay them into this scheme. Mr. Chuš mentioned a number, if we add some football players here, if we add a hand to half the hockey players, and two dozen handball players, we're out there somewhere. This law will not even regulate top-notch sports, let alone professional sports. However, a good question or extension and Peter and colleague Chuš asked, sportsmen need to be educated. That's what all the branches say, that's what the Olympic Committee says. And here we should actually start working also through some more individualised forms of education, that athletes on a completed sports course have easier transition to us ordinary citizens. I'm such a squabble who doesn't save anything, of course I can't support it, but of course we need a roof law on [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u146	We are done with the explanations of vote. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 5. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complementing the Public Sector Wage System Act, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendment could not be tabled at the assembly meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the proposed law. We will not support it because we believe that the members of the Fiscal Council, which this law regulates in the wage scheme of officials, are overly high. On the other hand, we will not support it because you did not support our amendment, which proposed to include Banka Slovenije officials in the payment system. Some employees, some Bank of Slovenia officials are the only ones in this country that are outside the pay system. We think it's unacceptable, inappropriate. Their salaries deviate substantially from the salary of the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, the President of the National Assembly. In view of the fact that we want to have some normal pay grade structure in the functionaries, we have also proposed these solutions. Since the coalition has not adopted and supported any of the solutions that we have proposed, we will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u148	Ms Anita Kolesh has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u149	Dear Mr. President! As a preliminary supervisory authority, the Fiscal Council, as an independent authority, will carry out the tasks of assessing financial compliance with the fiscal rule and will prepare very in-depth and professional assessments or analyses of the state’s public financial situation. This will have a very important impact on the final content of public financial policy in Slovenia. Certain wage classes in the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Public Administration, of course on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, provide for the classification of the President of the Fiscal Council and a member of the Fiscal Council by analogy with the members of the Court of Auditors. This is, according to the assessment of our Group of Members, an appropriate classification, so this proposal to supplement the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System will be endorsed by Members of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u150	Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, chairman. We will not support this bill in the United Left. Shortly because he was attracted to the hair, she was also attracted to the hair of his explanation. The bill we are considering today is due to the adoption of the fiscal rule law. At that time, the United Left was also the only parliamentary group that opposed this bill and fiscal rule in general, because it was an economically flawed project that was harmful and dangerous because it restricts the country's development, social and anti-crisis measures. All these negative effects are best seen already in the 2016 and 2017 budgets. This fiscal rule law also provided for the establishment of the Fiscal Council. For the law that we have dealt with today, we determine the level of wages for the president and members of the Fiscal Council. The government has proposed that the position of the President of the Fiscal Council become the sixth best-paid position in the country, namely that it be classified in the 64th Wage Class of 65 existing wage classes. We can only oppose such a provision in the United Left because there is absolutely no argument for such high wages. The government and the coalition have proposed some comparison with the salary of the President of the Court of Auditors, but nothing could be longer than the truth, because the functions, powers and scope of the institution are completely divergent, there is absolutely nothing analogous to them, and this is just an argument that the coalition or government has drawn from the hat to defend some fabulously high salaries for functions that are not at all justified by them. However, we have proposed a solution in the United Left with the amendment, which is based on sound arguments. In particular, in Slovenia we already have an organ or agency that is completely comparable to the Fiscal Council. This is the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the so-called Umar. Its powers and tasks are almost identical to those of the Fiscal Council. They are both accompanied, analysers and commentators, and then these findings are the analysis of both bases for the preparation of government rules. With this amendment, we have therefore proposed that the President of the Fiscal Council be given the same salary as that of Director Umar, which is the 58th wage class. With this proposal of ours, we have been burned up, we have been raised, and today we have a proposal on the table to place wages on the spot of the 64th wager class of a fiscal world, which is a halfway-recreational body. We can only oppose this in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u152	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. 62 Members and Members attended, 49 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act is not suitable for further consideration. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support the Government's proposal that its law is not suitable for further consideration. We have already discussed ourselves, and when we have considered this bill, examined it in the parliamentary group, found that it does not belong in our legal order, and there is no other way that we are happy that the Government has also seen it and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u154	Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we have already put forward a proposal of very concrete recommendations for the Government to immediately abandon bad practices and to do everything that the Modern Centre Party took up before the elections and then transferred the entire coalition into its coalition contract because of the undemocratic and non-transparent functioning of the government and ministries. To tell you what I'm referring to. I refer to this commitment, which I quote: "The Coalition undertakes to defend, protect and develop multilateral parliamentary democracy, an active response to actual problems, the rule of law, coordination within and between the various branches of government and the inclusion and respect for social and economic initiatives, and in all of these frameworks, in particular respect for and protection of fundamental social values and human rights." End of quote. It was one very long sentence loaded with content. But the cases where the Government and the coalition group actually acted in accordance with what I have just stated from their own coalition agreement are extremely few. The decision we're about to make today is proof of that. The proposal that the bill is not suitable for further consideration will, of course, be supported by the United Left in the light of all that has been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u156	Dr Mitja Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the case of the General Administrative Procedure Act, of course, it is a law concerning each of us, all citizens and citizens, and also all legal entities entering administrative procedures. All those mentioned in the previous explanations of vote on behalf of the members of the groups could be obvious if it were not for something else. We all want change, and we have entered politics ourselves to make changes. In this case, we have a bold attempt at changes, radical changes, which have come across a very strong disapproval, I would say, even a misunderstanding of the moment. The proposal was not just overnight put before the National Assembly, but the ministry, with a view to drafting a new law or amending the law, looked at what is an internationally comparable practice, which was also presented in the proposal for amendments to the law. It also consulted distinguished experts and on this basis prepared a bold attempt at how we can change things, which way we could go, when we are trying to change practice in terms of removing administrative barriers and also try to reduce the costs for the functioning of the administration on our own. In this case, it is a proposal that was largely rejected in the main part of the service with regard to the notification, which would significantly reduce the use of budgetary resources. Apparently, the moment was not yet ripe for such a bold attempt by the Ministry of Public Administration. Many of the evidence we have received from both the parliamentary groups and the Legal and Legislative Service can be rejected and this has also been done by the Ministry. However, given that the very idea of radical changes in this area was in danger, we ourselves supported the idea that this law, as presented, was not suitable for further consideration, in order to encourage bold and decisive work on amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act below, on the basis of everything that has been said and written so far, that the Ministry could prepare for radical changes in the overall communication between the authorities and the parties and, of course, the system of decision-making in administrative procedures. We will support this proposal on the basis of these reasons in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u158	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SD Group of Members shall be mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Even in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the decision of the parent working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration, and this is because we have found that, despite the immeasurable desire for change, these changes have certainly been in place. The Ministry has tried on the basis of evaluation, but all the problems that we have then found that may arise in connection with service, with a shorter period of fiction, it has been found that it is better for the Ministry to re-examine all comments and prepare a novel that will satisfy a higher degree of consent to remove all doubts about the constitutionality and appropriateness of the law. The Social Democrats will support the conclusion of the parent labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u160	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already announced that we will support the proposal for a conclusion that this amendment to the General Administrative Procedure Act is not suitable for further consideration. We regret that the coalition did not comply in time. We actually hired a lot of potential, a lot of machinery to practically work for free. But I'd still write it in very small letters. I believe that all the effort has not been put aside, and I am also taking Mr Koprivnik, Minister, as that member of the Government who understands what electronic commerce, if I say so in general, could do in terms of debirocratisation, simplification and so on. In fact, he would put all of us on the heart to go along with these activities. It is obvious, however, that today's vote will show that we will have to think more about solutions in the future, and that our legislative solutions must certainly go in this direction. If anyone, then it is the New Slovenia Group that supports those solutions that will reduce bureaucratic obstacles and also allow practical, if you want, as much e-commerce as possible. And there are a lot of open questions. In this area we have a lot of solutions, from digital certificates to digital signatures and so on, some of these matters are already well regulated. Perhaps the government's proposal, now at this stage of explanation of vote, is to consider actually giving every citizen who wants it free of charge a digital certificate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u162	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Miha Kordish has an explanation of vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, chairman. Minister Koprivnikar, on the committee when this was discussed, reiterated that the law should be, I will quote, "individually harmonised, firstly professionally, it is said, not only by the experts of our ministry and others responsible for this, but also by the representatives of the profession, the faculty, that he went through a public debate, that he went through a government procedure, that at the beginning of the proceedings in the National Assembly we were again confronted with very sharp opinions by the Legislative and Legal Service." End of quote. And there's a problem that makes me have a terrible problem with this law. If the functioning of the Government were at least a little transparent and the documents relating to the legislative proposals were made public and accessible, these statements by Minister Koprivnik could be verified. And anyone who would look at these documents could most likely see very quickly that the government's opinion of the interested professional public and the government's legislative service is short-lived. In the United Left, it seemed simply impossible for us to have one legal service to read out even unconstitutionality, while another legal service would not have any major comments and would have been aligned with the proposal. For this reason, we have requested access to the opinions of the government on the basis of the Act on Access to Public Information. And what did we find? Now, look at that! The comments of the two services are almost as sharp, with the difference that the government service has submitted its comments on the proposal three times. The Government did not take any comments into account. The letter makes it clear that the Law Service has warned that the solutions proposed could constitute violations of the constitutional principle of equality. It is also clear from the same document that the Ministry of the Interior did not take into account the fact that the government service has written down, I quote again, "as the proposal is more or less similar to the previous proposal, our comments below refer to further clarification of the comments already made." And to the second conclusion, as if the minister on the committee simply lied, unfortunately we cannot come to it. And such an exercise that is appropriate for further consideration, of course we cannot support [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u164	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Public Procurement Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 57. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you. In the United Left, we propose an amendment to Article 57 concerning transparency of procurement procedures. This Article provides in the current text that contracting entities shall publish a voluntary notice of prior transparency when they award a contract under a negotiated procedure without prior publication or after a competitive procedure with negotiation, unless they have published a contract notice. It also provides that contracting authorities may publish this voluntary notice in other procedures. In the United Left, we propose that this notice become mandatory. In Slovenia, we have the biggest problems with procurement procedures precisely in terms of transparency and the point of economy of our public procurement, even when it comes to low-value public procurement, where no notice is required. Since these procedures are very subdued and simplified, there is, of course, the greatest potential for serving both non-economic practices and clienteleism. In the United Left, we are proposing an amendment that would at least try to address this problem and at least partially remedy it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u166	Any other explanation for the voice? The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. All of us sitting in this honourable house are talking about how we are for transparency, for the rule of law, for ethics, for morals and so on. Here is a nice lactose paper that, like me, you vote in favour of this article and thus the route to preventing such corruption risks. If you read the Court of Auditors reports, it's my regular weekend reading, and that's why I'm grayer, you can see that, especially at the level of the municipalities, there's a lot of this. I hope you agree with me and you'll vote in favour just like I do. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u168	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was five, and the vote was forty-five. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 75. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 111. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 111 becomes irrelevant. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. The Article refers to reasons for exclusion from participation in the procurement process. In the United Left, we support a clear definition of the reasons for exclusion because some of the practices that have occurred in the past are simply unacceptable and unacceptable. Here I mean, for example, when companies were involved in public procurement, which were on the list of taxpayers at the same time, there were companies that did not pay contributions for their employees. Even some companies that have already been in the process of criminal investigations for corruption and damage to public funds. And we could list it. Sadly, however, there are too many exceptions — as in many other places in this law — here too. In several places, the word "may" appears again and leaves much too much porous ground for combating corruption and for the prudent use of public funds through public procurement. For this reason, in the United Left we propose an amendment which concerns this in four parts and seeks to remedy and correct this problem of indecisiveness and interlocution of this law. And I call on everyone here to support this move in the fight for transparency and the economic use of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u170	We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. Vote 6 and 48. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 84. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Article 84 lays down the criteria for the award of a contract. The fact that the main advantage of the new law is that the lowest price is no longer the only criterion was much talk, and this is also the main novelty around which the other additional criteria and criteria for determining the economically most favourable offer revolve around. But like almost all other places here, we may lack some clarity in writing that the lowest price is not the only criterion. The proposal provides that the most economically advantageous offer is determined on the basis of a price or cost, using the principle of cost-effectiveness, for example, for the calculation of costs of life, and may also cover the best price-quality ratio assessed on the basis of criteria relating to quality and the environment or social aspects related to the subject matter of public procurement. In short, even more of what we see in the United Left: more insolence, more uncertainty, and even more indecisiveness in the fight against corruption. In view of the fact that the coalition partners, you yourselves, have placed this issue in a coalition contract, I will quote: "We are committed to eliminating the system of the lowest price value as the only criterion for public procurement. In addition to the price, we will also define other selection criteria for standard public procurement. We promote higher quality at an appropriate price and, above all, promote sustainable development, higher quality of construction and public space." Of course, we hope and appeal to their support for our amendment under such coalition commitments, because our amendment achieves exactly what the coalition itself has committed to its coalition agreement, and these are some of the principles on which it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u172	First of all, I ask that the explanations of vote are indeed explanations of voice and not of appeals to others. An explanation for the vote is an explanation for the voice of its own party, not inviting others to vote and for what. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to invite others, I'm going to vote for this amendment because I'm in favour of the second track. Now you're going to tell me what this has to do with this marriage. This law is too easily written down, too often it can, can, and obviously the legislator is not for what we have been saying for quite some time, through public procurement it turns slightly less than 10% of GDP and moves annually into some private pockets unjustifiably the price of one another track after the current estimated value per year. [[…]] So you and the people will imagine what we're talking about. The United Left had the best intention of putting this ease into what this legislation is supposed to be, resulting from some directives, because it is too easily copied what suits you. In this respect, I must say that there is still a far-reaching new policy. I hope it is when we take power. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u174	We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 48. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 84. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. This Article 84, paragraph 4, also refers to the criteria for awarding public procurement on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the criteria for the most economically advantageous offer are also used for the construction of services and goods, but not only for the production of computer programmes, architectural and engineering services and translation and advisory services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u176	Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. We have also tabled an amendment in the United Left to this article, which is better than what we have just heard explanation for. We socialists, for example, allow direct payment not to be compulsory, because this could unduly interfere with the relations of small enterprises, which, as subcontractors, cooperate through the main contracting authority. Where these relationships are already regulated and they are a business that does not use exploitation practices, this can be a matter of agreement. This option also exists and is further improved by an amendment to paragraph 6, where we provide for periodic reporting that the main operator has paid all its obligations to subcontractors. In addition, we are solving even more pressing issues in the United Left, and these are subcontractors of subcontractors, who have been completely released here in practice, have neither the right to direct payment unless this has already been specified in the tender documentation. This is our proposal, which we will also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u178	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 43. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 90. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thanks again for saying that. To remind you a bit, Article 90 speaks of the decision to award a contract and to inform candidates and tenderers. The second paragraph of this proposal provides that the contracting authority shall inform each candidate and the tenderer of the decision as soon as possible after completion of the verification and evaluation. We are very much asked here what it is as soon as possible. We are of the opinion that the law, which uses the words "as soon as possible", "may" and thus is not clearly laid down in the law, has no clear objectives. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the word 'as soon as possible' should be replaced, and we have proposed that they be replaced by the words 'five days'.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u180	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! What the colleague has presented with this amendment, we fully agree with the SMC Group because we assess that the provision that says "as soon as possible" does not follow the desire that these procedures are fast, so we agree that these two words are replaced "in five days". I think it's the right thing to do. The SMC Group will therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u182	We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 94. If this amendment is accepted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Joint Left to the same article under points 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. Ms Marinka Levičar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry, I don't have an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, but on my behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u184	Let me check. Does anyone have an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Yeah. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u185	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm calling now because then, it seems, I'm not going to get a chance, because we're going to support this. Isn't that right, Minister? See, the payment of subcontractors was a very problematic topic in the past. Before 2011, so much more. Then the Pahor government adopted amendments to the law that subcontractors pay so directly. The State was also a contracting entity in the past and had difficulties paying subcontractors. Let me remind you, for example, of the subcontractor's payments for Dars, the construction of the suburban highway and so on. This part of this law goes a step backwards, namely it is not protected that subcontractors are paid directly by the contracting authority. Even further, our amendment speaks in the direction, of course nothing changes the content of the law, but we only add this protector to the fact that subcontractors will have the financial resources provided for the work done, so that those who remain empty will not be once again those who remain empty and then, of course, tragic stories are happening when we witness the collapse of family businesses, craftsmen of entrepreneurs. Tragic stories are happening. And then there goes the whole chain. The culture of payment discipline in Slovenia is not as developed as in some other countries, and this must be defined in this important law. I therefore call for support for this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you very much. / advertising from the hall/
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u186	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u187	That won't be necessary. Appeal does not belong to an explanation of vote, please, it also applies to everyone else. Do you still have procedural? Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm glad we're a little telepathic. I ask that we take this matter a little more logically – this is my procedural proposal. Apparently, young colleagues are full of hormones and jump back and forth and reason. I like things logically organized in time and space, and I want to know when we're talking about SDS and the amendment, we're talking about SDS and the amendment, and I hope not always about Janez Janša. So, please, a little more logic in the following session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u189	I will respond to this motion in such a way that, of course, the speaker is responsible for what he says and for what he hears. [[Laughing in the hall]] Miha Kordiš has an explanation of vote on behalf of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u190	Yeah, I'm going to break this logic a little bit, but I'm just going to repeat a point that I highlighted ten articles earlier. We all agree that subcontractors are a problem, that's true. However, there is also a large or even more pressing problem for subcontractors who have been virtually completely released here, and they do not have the right to direct payment, unless this has already been predetermined in the tender documentation. Our amendment to this same article addresses not only the problem of subcontractors, but also refers to the problem of subcontractors. In short, I want to say that our amendment is better than theirs, which is why we will support it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u191	Is there any other explanation? I know he's still on his own, but is he still at the level of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Mrs Marinka Levičar has an explanation of vote on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must point out that I will support these amendments tabled by the SDS and the NSI, because I think it is right that subcontractors are protected, more protected than the amendment of this law itself allows. I am sorry that we have not been more coordinated and discussed before, perhaps these amendments would have received more support. But it certainly seems important to me that subcontractors are, according to all the practices that have taken place in the past, when they have been large victims, as the proposed amendment has also said, and this has been highlighted in particular, so I will support this amendment to Article 94 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u193	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 94. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 94. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the United Left Group to the same Article under point 3 becomes irrelevant. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u194	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Once again, I would like to point out that this amendment does not change the concept in any way, does not change anything, is just an additional safeguard that subcontractors and subcontractors will be paid to subcontractors and thus continue to be paid for their work. And of course you're well aware of that. I am not saying that you are not aware of this in terms of "I oppose this amendment because it is harmful", but you think that you have a law well arranged enough to define it. This amendment of ours is actually written for the sake of not coming back to this situation once again when people lost money for their work. Here I have to look back, jump back in 2011 and say that this was one of the better moves of the Pahor government in 2011, when it arranged the direct payment of subcontractors. Our amendment gives this to the security guard that if the subcontractor does not receive the money from the contractor, he has the possibility of direct payment. And that's perfectly logical, human, it's called this fuse. I do not want to be seen again once again by these tragic events, as we were in the case of the construction of the foothill of the highway, the construction of the opera, when the state companies were also the ones that did not pay the subcontractors. There is also a test of how much we have relations with these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u195	We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 94. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. There were 12 votes in favour and 40 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 94. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Look, I'm going to say it in a very sound and practical way. I know quite a few subcontractors and subcontractors who, because of what the New Slovenia Member said, had to shut down trade. It used to be, in some cases, for family companies with a long tradition. Regardless of what major differences there are between the opposition's parliamentary groups, we have drafted a key amendment for all three members. I am genuinely concerned about this ease of coalition in this regard. We have only been restrained by our colleagues' amendments because we believe that ours is nomotechnically and also more substantively accurate. Thirdly, we repeat the exercise, of course I will vote in favour, and the rest I will not call on you to vote, after all you look in your mirror in the morning and I look in mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u197	Mr Primož Hainz has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Of course, on this relationship between the contracting authority or between the contractor, subcontractors and subcontractors, I think that this amendment is best because it is not actually regulated. We know a number of cases, I wouldn't go to state-owned companies, only on Dars, I think it was a lot. In Ljubljana, too, there could also be tragic cases where subcontractors have simply never been paid. The law states, of course, that the subcontractor may require payment directly, but the subcontractor is so weak in his arguments that he will never be able to do so because he is uncompetitive with the first contractor. Otherwise, the law also requires that those who want to be a performer have to have everything back in order, if I may say so. But that's all for the back. In this particular case, however, this weaker article cannot apply in this particular contract. I will support the amendment of the United Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u199	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u200	I will also support the aforementioned amendment of the United Left because it follows this perfect logic to make the one who is weaker in this relationship – and from past experience we can say that he is seriously weaker – to be protected in this case. Although the law says from the outset that the subcontractor will be able to claim direct payment. But then this contractor won't take it as a subcontractor because he'll lay down his own terms. This is the same as if you are going to get a bank loan, but you will agree to the terms of the bank and you will not lay down your terms or coordinate them. Because the amendment of the United Left follows this logic and because we care about entrepreneurs and craftsmen, because of course I care about entrepreneurs and craftsmen, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u201	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 20 votes and 38 votes. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 75 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposal to Article 111 becomes irrelevant. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 118. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you very much again for your word. To remind you, Article 118 speaks of the gradual introduction of electronic public procurement. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we propose to fill this provision with a gradual application of the mandatory verification of an unusually low offer price. In our Group of Members, we believe that, in accordance with Article 86, it is not possible to make an offer which would be 50% lower than most other offers. In our view, such an offer cannot be formulated in the light of the fundamental principles of public procurement. Therefore, we also propose that the contracting authority be required by 1. 1. 2020 verify all those tenders which are more than 25 % below the average value of the tenders received in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u203	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 118. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It was 10 for the vote and 49 for the vote. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the proposer of the draft law proposed, in the opening presentation, that the assembly, pursuant to paragraph 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 45 and against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Tuesday, 27. Ten. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. The amendment shall be open to this Article by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we go to the vote on points 7 to 13, let me remind you that these are substantively related proposals for laws which must be published simultaneously in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, so we must vote on them on the same day. In the event of a third hearing at point 7, the draft law on out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes should take place on Tuesday, 27. Ten. 2015, or even at the next meeting of the assembly, I will propose a postponement of the vote on points 8 to 13 on the same day. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 11. The United Left shall have an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. In the last two, three weeks, I have talked so much about the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes that these two of our amendments – as well as the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and other consumer organisations – have probably supported this cherry veneer that was cut near the border crossing of Gruškov, as I was told. If we go to the amendment to Article 11, the directive we introduce says that the cost of this settlement of consumer disputes can be up to €30 for the consumer. Our executive authority, who has prepared this, has somehow decided that this should be 20 euros for us, and they have almost expected us to applaud. All consumer organisations have warned that this is too high for many consumers. In the United Left, we are on the line that we should be as regulated in the energy law, that this is free, but because we know that this will not go through, we have in fact tabled an amendment summarizing the recommendations of all consumer organisations operating in Slovenia that this cost is EUR 5 per consumer or consumer. From an argument that followed in multiple debates, and also in the hallway, I was told by certain SMC members, "and for 15 euros you somehow go and play here." It seems to me that it is necessary to be aware of the seriousness of this situation that many who would hardly afford these 20 euros are already in such a subjugation are not fully aware of consumer rights. You know, it is not so much about the introduction of a directive, it seems more problematic that after 20 years we still do not realize this area and consumer rights, which are often repeatedly played, especially those with less social power, less income, less educated, older people, not to mention. Our amendments go in this light to allow these people, after all, to participate in this out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, with the help of these civil society consumer organisations, so we have proposed this amendment., This is an amount that is still accessible to most people and people of Slovenia. Who thinks it's funny? It's just sad that he thinks it's funny and that he's grumpy about what I'm explaining here. I hope that you will support this amendment, because – I will repeat it again – because this was the request, literally, of all consumer organisations operating in Slovenia, both superficial and regional.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u205	Ms Andreja Potočnik has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u206	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! As we have already discussed at the meeting, the United Left has first proposed a free solution, an out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, and now proposes five euros. In the Group of Members, we consider 20 euros to be a proportionate price, the right price, which, on the other hand, prevents consumers from acting with their own demands or hindering the business of companies that choose to resolve consumer disputes out of court. Let me mention two more things. EUR 20 is the maximum price set by the State. Institutions dealing with the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes will be on the market and will have to offer their services, which means quality and, on the other hand, have to compete with each other and also be cheap. We set 20 euros, and the institution can decide for 5 euros or 2 euros. That's one aspect. Another aspect is that we need to take care of balance, it is said, that we must protect both the consumer and we must protect the organisation or business on the other hand. It has been repeatedly mentioned that SMC does not protect a small man. In this place, I have to say, there is a small man who is also engaged in espa, who has to serve daily bread and work in business and is also a small man. So we can understand that in two ways. As mentioned at the outset, the SMC supports the government proposal and we believe that 20 euros is an appropriate price.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u207	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u208	In my own name, I will also support this amendment. From what the lady has said before me, it is very clear that certain people in this composition of the National Assembly have understood this as an opportunity to make use of this directive for some kind of market activity. We had a similar story with the fear and tension of the pensioners if you don't transfer that stock there, but we're gonna, I don't know, take that away from you. Stop making a fool of people. The aim of the directive is to resolve consumer disputes out of the ordinary. Some of your friends, however, should look for opportunities to survive in honest business practices. And most of the small entrepreneurs, I hope they'll vote for the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u209	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 44. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 16. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you for saying that again. It's a similar problem, but it saddens me that you probably won't get it either. In this amendment, it is somehow the question of what is the limit amount to which these out-of-court disputes are triggered. There is a 30-euro limit, we are here to amend this limit to somehow withdraw. Why? This is a whole range of activities that already reach these lower amounts after the economy. It is a fact that we live in an information society that has so-called dynamic pricing. For the book, for the airline map, in particular the low-priced one that will be ordered six months in advance, it will be possible to pay 27 euros, but someone who will remember to go somewhere tomorrow will be a free city and will pay 200 euros. And I could also lay down cases and these values, which are quite below, if I paraphrase a colleague, the price of shoes of a higher price class from a particular debate, are extreme range, are almost a luxury for many pensioners, many on minimums and so on. It is once again some kind of lactose, whether you are actually socially sensitive, or see what is going on in Slovenia – give yourself a little ride with trains – or not. In the United Left, we're going to vote in favour, but I'm going to follow the rules of this byte, and I'm not going to call anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u211	Ms Andreja Potočnik has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u212	President, thank you for your word. SMC is also socially sensitive, but here we are not talking about social sensitivity, but we are talking about some proportionate, some effective out-of-court resolution in the consumer dispute. And if a product costs 20 euros, we have to ask ourselves how much it costs to resolve this dispute. Here, too, we need to look at the usefulness of a procedure, and we believe that up to 30 euros does not make sense because the cost of resolution is higher than the dispute itself, as is the product itself, which costs up to 30 euros. And there's no social sensitivity at all. As far as your case is concerned, once the map costs 20 euros, once it costs 200 euros, we are going in the same direction – New York. This is not an important direction, this is an important price, but once it's 20 euros and twice it's 200 euros. And we can just ask ourselves, are you going to start a dispute for 20 euros and have more costs on the other side or are you going to start a dispute when you lose 200 euros? That's the point, not in the destination, but in the back there's another price. The amendments are not supported by the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u213	I would ask that there be explanations, explanations, not debates. It shall apply to all parliamentary groups. But I haven't given it to anyone today, and this time I won't. Dr. Franz Trček has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u214	Yes, thank you. I thank the President of the Economic Committee, whose Vice-President I am myself, for making it easier for me to argue why I will vote in favour of this amendment. I now also understand how clearly much of the ruling coalition understands small and medium-sized enterprises. It has literally been said that, do products that will be cheaper than 30 euros, stretch people and no one will be able to harm you. That is also why I must vote in favour of our amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u215	I must tell you that this was not an explanation for the voice, but a debate again. Please go to the explanations of the vote which are intended to explain why we are voting alone or as a group of Members in a certain direction. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u216	Dear and honourable Presidents, I have very clearly explained why I am voting in favour. Because of some practices I'm up against. My procedural proposal is that you listen to me a little more precisely, I understand that you are already tired, I understand that you are very sad because Mr Bučar died, so am I, and I fear that he is turning in grave over what is happening here today. Not you, not me. You were talking about Srebrenica. I can pull the magnetograms. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u217	It's a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you for the reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u219	Can we please finish this meeting properly? Next time there will be no warning, there will be a direct vote. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 5 votes against and 52 votes against. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 31. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 8 votes in favour and 52 votes in favour. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the amendments to the amended amended law have not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Consumer Credits in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that because of the amendments adopted at the home office, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act and implementing companies under the regular procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems on a regular basis. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 13th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Energy Act, the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 14th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015 following a regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 49. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 47. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the third amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 46. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. On behalf of the United Left Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. We are in the United Left for the even and polycentric development of Slovenia. I also believe that this law or amendment will be adopted unanimously. There is probably no one in this call by the National Assembly who would not be in favour of the fact that the statistical region, because we do not have a formal, territorial Pomurje somehow develops through this financial injection, is also approaching the average, in short, that this median is reduced when I speak as a professor. Of course, we will vote in favour, but at the same time we are very concerned on the one hand, because too little attention is being paid to increasing interregional and, in particular, intra-regional differences. We can go look at the congregation’s aggregate or some other aggregation. And also because of some problem, look, we're gonna back it up now, these pennies, I hope they get to Pomur. At the same time, we have three other problems of the area, which obviously I fear will not be seen in the next two budgets of this money, Podravje, Zasavje, Kolupje, where realisation is much lower, we have the problem of Haloz, which we have pointed out, we have the problem of Koroška, we have a problem of a whole range of developmentally endangered border areas, municipalities that will now be in fact many of them in serious difficulty due to the refugee crisis, and we have a serious problem of regional development centres that obviously do not work. The most prominent example of this is the Mura Regional Development Agency, which is now in bankruptcy. We have a position when we decide, Pomurje needs money, we have a position when we don't know what to do with the intermediator. We will vote in favour, but personally, as an expert, as a member of the United Left, I appeal that we open up this area of regional development agencies once again and reconsider and that such financial injections are more targeted, properly and thoughtfully dosed. If I had more time, I could explain the failure of social entrepreneurship in Prekmurje, when they actually had very little access to this call because they were obviously not informed enough. We have to solve the problem of regional development agencies, we have to solve the problem of so-called field offices, and here I do not detect hot water, this is what the regulated countries are doing. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u221	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The implementation of the pomur law has been accompanied by irregularities for many years. Remember only the actions of the former Secretary of State in the office of the President of the current government, Mr Horvat. As a result, a large majority of the money did not reach consumers, those who had money allocated to them, and also the closure or bankruptcy of the regional development agency Pomurje. We have proposed some solutions, and the improvements to this law, which we have voted on before, have unfortunately not been adopted. For example, we have proposed that those who are applying for the funds of the law of purgatory are bound by the law on public procurement, which has not been adopted. We have proposed to make an integrity plan, that is to say the institution that performs the tasks under this law. This was not accepted either. We then proposed that those who run this institution be liable to report on the property situation. This was not accepted either. And we have proposed that no one can run for the money of the law of purgatory, which is in criminal or predictive proceedings. This was not accepted either. Given that the coalition majority in the National Assembly does not support solutions that would contribute to transparency, which would even allow the funds that we are implementing or devoting to the law of Pomurje to solve problems, it is intended to use transparently for the right purposes in order to be able to control and control, but we cannot support this law. It is probably more than obvious that in a few years' time the next bankruptcy of the next regional development agency in Pomurje will take place, and again we will deal with the underdeveloped region, unexploited or uncreated new jobs and the same bad statistics as now. The purpose of the marriage is obviously money laundering. Whatever the purpose of these activities, we will not cooperate and we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u223	Mr Franc Laj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u224	Dear President, thank you for the opportunity to explain the voice of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. There's been a lot of talk about this law, so I'm not going to repeat everything I've already said on the committee and at the first reading. The fact is that at first there were problems when the implementation of this law was taken over by the office. However, this situation has settled quite quickly and the evaluation studies carried out on the achievement of effects show a very significant improvement, which is said to have started to be useful. This is said to have been supported by good projects, productive, with lasting value, which we can also be sure of on the ground itself. I would not like to expose individuals, individual companies, because, last but not least, these data are publicly available. And these companies are today the parade horses of the Slovenian economy, because they are very successful exporters. To say that everything was spent unjustifiably, I say it is very irresponsible. As far as the law itself is concerned and these incentives are concerned, I absolutely believe that it is better for the region to receive these incentives, because this is inappropriately more useful than social transfers, in order to resolve these major social tensions through social transfers. I think that with incentives, it can also prove that we are creating a competitive and attractive business environment for domestic and foreign investors, who provide both existing and new jobs and thus contribute permanently to the economic development of the region and, finally, this is also a positive public financial impact. As regards the integrity of regional development agencies, the framework is provided by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Management and all those who are somehow responsible for these funds are obliged to report to the KPC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u225	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I must say, because there are many Horvats in Slovenia, I am not the Horvat who was Secretary of State to the President of the Government to Mr Pahor, and I am not related to that Horvat. New Slovenia has consistently advocated the consistent implementation of the coherent regional development law. My hand on my heart, my colleagues and my colleagues, this marriage is simply not going well for us. It was therefore necessary to adopt the Law on Development Support to Pomurje. This is 33 municipalities, not just for the statistical region of Pomurje, for 33 municipalities, that is 27 plus 6. We have supported this law all the time, despite the inconveniences, embarrassments, diplomatically speaking, which have accompanied the implementation of this law. And actually, the epilogue's awkwardness hasn't gotten you yet. The fact is, it has to be acknowledged that this law has brought some positive developments so far. It's probably hard to measure how many jobs this is. But if I look at a micro-enterprise that, through calls under this law, has received some machine, modern technology for a few 10,000 euros and has hired 5 new jobs and has a very good job today, we can be very pleased with that. We in Novi Slovenija would be most pleased if the implementation of this law ended this year, according to 31. 12. 2015, as was the original proposal. However, since the government has not provided enough money, we have nothing left but support for the bill and support the bill, which goes on to be extended until the end of 2017. Here I must express one satisfaction as the only pomurish opposition Member that we have played well here as a club of the pomurs Members as a synchro team, and I hope that this will continue. Yeah, go ahead. How this law will now be implemented is no longer in the National Assembly domain. I wish the last euro to come to the pomur region would really come to 31. 12. 2017. I aim and point with my finger at the invitations to tender when they must be published, probably one call in one piece and so on. I would also like the Government to have some obedience to this region in other areas as well. In particular, we have one mega project that connects 16 Pomurski municipalities plus Šentilj Municipality. It's the biosphere area of the Mura River, but it's the Zinc Government. The government of zinc and does not give development options, the documents are practically ready. I support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u227	Mr Franc Jurša has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u228	President, thank you for your word. Given that we also discussed this law in this Chamber in the 2008-2011 mandate when we actually adopted this law, we are also talking now and in the previous term, somehow we have always assessed in the majority that this law has achieved its objectives. In this way, the Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support this proposal. There was also a positive statement by the Club of Pomeranian Members, which in some ways prompted the extension of this law because the funds were not exhausted. However, if I did not repeat the matter, what my colleagues have already said in their debates and explanations, I would add that there is a clear view of the implementation of this law, but that it is not entirely right. The president will probably say yes now, and that's no longer an explanation for the vote. Yeah, it's also an explanation for the voice when you say it's not that black-eyed, so we'll support it. It is true, however, that this law has created quite a number of new jobs and that we now have quite a parade of horses in the field of exports in the pomurice area. This, however, can be commended, and this is also the achievement of this law, which we have adopted in that mandate that I mentioned earlier. I will be alone and the Group of Members will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u229	Any other explanation for the voice? In your own name from now on. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. I must say that I had no intention at all to discuss and explain my vote on this law. But look, I come from a similar point of view to the statistics of the endangered region, if I compare this region with the pomur region, this is the lower sub-level region, we can talk about social indicators, unemployment, the state of education and we can talk about it. But see if this law on assistance to the pomur region is so good, why does 20 thousand Slovenes and Slovenians go to Austria? This is a question on the spot, in my opinion. I am sure that in this National Assembly, at least 20, 30 Members and Members of Parliament, who have received e-mail visits from migrant workers in recent weeks, mainly from the eastern part of Slovenia, warning that there are problems. People got it because instead of being home on welfare, they went to work in Austria, and they should say thank you very much, and now they've got a score of at least two to five thousand euros, and they have to pay it in 30 days. I'd rather be spending financial resources here for some laws that have proven to have no excessive positive effects, release funds or help daily, weekly migrants. That's 20 grand. I'm afraid they're getting more and more. These people are giving up residence, moving mass to Austria and thus losing citizens and citizens. That is why I would rather talk than talk about such laws, which have proven to have no positive effects in order to help daily and weekly migrants and migrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u231	Mrs Marija Bachič has an explanation for the vote on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I wouldn't repeat myself. But I agree with all the prefaces of our Pomeranian Members. The law, as we have heard, has partially achieved its effect. However, I believe that the extension is strictly necessary because the funds have not been exhausted, in fact, they have not been allocated. However, I believe that the Pomurians deserve the extension of this law because our people, the unemployed people who are still below the threshold, deserve work at 17% of the unemployment threshold because they are working, they want to work so that they do not travel daily to neighbouring Austria to find work at home by extending the post-morning law by means of these means. I will support this law on my behalf, and I also hope on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u233	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I will not support this law because the basic law has not produced any positive effects at least after the materials we have at our disposal. Except for those who are in investigative proceedings. If you look at the material, if you look at the material we received in the implementation of the pomurski law, we will see that there are minimal changes as regards the impact of the law on the number of employees, new businesses, etc. It's not working. At the same time, you have not and have not done anything to tighten the law, to put certain preventive measures in place and to exclude those who have proven to be unreliable in the implementation of the law so far or who have been involved in these suspicions of various crimes. To expect to invest somewhere, to adopt a law that is supposed to have some effect, while at the same time doing nothing to prevent bad practices in the implementation of this law, I think this is wrong. I would expect from one serious policy, and I expect it to be serious, and also responsible, because it is public funds. Just because a law applies to a region does not mean that it has to be supported headlessly. I, as it is said, will not support the law in particular because it is intended again only for those who have already laundered, taken money from the system and used it unintentionally for bureaucratic measures, various studies, etc. However, there are no concrete effects of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u235	Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my own name, let me say that I will support the marriage. During the parliamentary procedure, the law has experienced some improvements that have been made mainly in this direction, in order to actually allocate funds to development, not to paper expertise, not to some analysis, etc. I'm happy about that. Of course, I also supported amendments that would somehow allow for greater transparency in the use of these funds. Unfortunately, democracy is such that we finally vote, and I regret that these amendments have not been adopted. However, what is positive, and which particularly gives me the idea that the law is worthy of support, is that, respected colleagues and colleagues, the pomur economy has the absorption capacity for these funds, which are intended under this law over the next two years. And that's the key. I'd be so disappointed and worried if the pomur economy didn't have projects, they wouldn't know where he wanted to go. But he does have, uh, absorption skills for a lot more resources than are available here in this law. That is why, in my firm belief, this law deserves support. He'll get my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u237	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. Explanation in its own name. I must say, I now have some serious personal dilemma here, given what Comrade Laj performed on behalf of SMC. He said that regional development agencies are not a problem because we have the Integrity Act and we have the KPK. What is the aggregate state of KPK right now, you know. Obviously, most people do not want this situation to be resolved, but I will still support this law, and obviously the opposition will have no choice but to use all possible parliamentary means to ensure greater transparency in the implementation of these and similar laws. If we touch on the content of Pomurje and Prekmurje a little bit more, I hope that it will shine light on someone in these next programmes and remember that this region also has great geothermal potentials that are not yet sufficiently exploited. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u239	There's another explanation for the voice. No, no, no. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present and 57 votes against and no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs by means of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present and 57 votes against and no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Company Investments under the ordinary procedure. We're moving on to the third reading of the law. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, and none in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. There was 64 votes in favour and no one in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Rail Safety in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. I know some of you sigh, but you don't ride trains. We'll support the marriage in the United Left. Why? Because through some directives that are possible to a technical nature, it introduces some improvements, particularly in the field of environmental matters. On the other hand, we would also like to point out what has been pointed out both at the meeting of the National Assembly's parent working body as the State Council, that it is in fact a rather outdated law that we have somehow flagged through this directive as a rag and that it is time to consider somehow the issue of railway safety also in the light of Slovenia's frantic backlog in this area. You know, every time I listen to why trains would drive so fast to Kopra, I'd drag someone behind my ears to teach him a lesson. That I will not be a proposal, we will support it because some directives are being introduced, which are important, while at the same time reminding us that this is an area that we, as you like to say in the coalition, must be systematically reconsidered and regulated. And I hope that we will not wait for this new law on rail safety until the next term. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u241	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 58 votes in favour and no one in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gradual Closure of Trbovlje - Hrastnik and the developmental restructuring of the region under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. It's 57 votes and no one's. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 21. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the proposer of the draft law has already proposed, in an opening presentation at the meeting of the assembly, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting, to decide on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 5. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Tuesday, 27. Ten. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jernej Vrtovac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Jerne Vrtovec, on the resolution of members of the Board of Directors of the Claims Management Society. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u242	Dear colleagues and colleagues! On Monday, I asked the President of the Government about the reasons for replacing the two principals, i.e. the Executive Director, the non-executive director, the two leaders in the bad bank or the Bank Claims Management Company. I did not agree with the argument that this replacement or this solution was necessary. I am not satisfied with the response of the President of the Government, which is why it is appropriate to suggest that we discuss this at one of the meetings of the National Assembly. There is an increasing impression that this decision by the Government to resolve these two representatives at the DUTB has also been influenced by different interest networks or lobbying if you want, because the interest in managing the EUR 2 billion operated by the DUTB is extremely great in this country. First of all, this is about this money that DUTB runs. Also on the basis of a letter sent by the former non-executive director to the Slovenian public, an open letter in which Mr Nyberg tells him that Minister Marble has informed him that such and other pressures are being exerted against him. This was not answered by Minister Marble, whether he was involved or not, because the situation in this case is completely changing. At the same time, we agree that the problem of DUTB itself in solving certain procedures, certain matters, but the argument of why this resolution has occurred is not based and it is also right for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to speak on this issue. It was also not explained why only those supervisors or those who were appointed to the DUTB were replaced, says our government. While those who also knew of the alleged irregularities at the DUTB were appointed March of this year, they remained in position. There is an impression, as the President of the Government said, which was negative, so what was not ours, we can explain, we cut off, and the rest remains in place. And that's not right. The same vats must be for all cases, and above all we must keep the DUB in this direction, so that this institution, which will continue to look for buyers, will be the best buyers for the following claims, because this is the money of taxpayers and taxpayers and we must not afford such failures indefinitely.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u243	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. A company to manage bank claims or a bad bank should be set up if our banking system was to function as it should, if it were to implement all those preventive measures that it does not have, and if all these financial projects were supervised, controlled and adequately managed on the basis of laws as well. Unfortunately, we have witnessed many illegalities in the banking system. The bad bank is just a result of what happened. It is probably more than obvious that the only people who could have been as independent as they could have been in a bad bank were foreigners, and unfortunately all of a sudden it seems that those who actually did this function independently and did not remove themselves from the various lobbies that had already torn down the banking system twice were undesirable in this scheme. So you can't even look, let alone decide in the banking system or in a bad bank. The key problem of this decision, which has taken place, is the presence at the same press conference of high government representatives, along with the President of the Government of two other coalition party presidents and the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, Mr Dragonja. He said that DUTB was doing his job well and successfully. And despite the good and successful performance of this task, both key persons have fallen down, calling it the CEO and the supervisor. And it is obvious that the government that has decided to resolve the successful is a government that does not suffer such successful ones. He suffers all those who have been involved in bad practices, he has his own portfolio, he has his own Ljubljana Bank, he has such directors and such institutions in the SDH, he has them in the New Ljubljana Bank, but he does not carry out any proceedings against any of these persons. And this mistrust, or this unknown desire, that the Government manages everything and decides where it will go, not on the professional side, but on the political side, it is necessary to discuss it in the National Assembly. What has happened does not give any good hope that anything will change in the banking system, in the supervision of the banking system and in the performance of state assets. We support the New Slovenia proposal to discuss the Government's response to the question put. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u245	We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Bojana Dobovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Bojan Dobovšk's question on systemic corruption. Dr Bojan Dobovšek has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u246	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have addressed the issue of corruption and systemic corruption to the President of the Government in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The answers were presented at least inappropriately and were not specific but very misleading. If we look at the answers ourselves, we can see that we have not received an answer regarding the preparation of the procedures for the revision of TES6, as regards the measures for the bank hole, these measures are also in preparation and we have had great difficulties in convincing Members that they supported the investigation of the bank hole. We have also witnessed a number of human resources problems in the recruitment of DUB, SDH, the Clinical Centre and Owl, if I only list some. The Law they tabled, namely the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest, was carried out by the Legislative and Legal Service to the extent that it was withdrawn. These are just some of the indications that the answers were misleading. In view of the above, we propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u247	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We will support the proposal of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. One typical example of systemic corruption is the Nova Ljubljanska Banka. In the New Ljubljana Bank, the country is the 100 % owner and does nothing, although it is more than obvious that the official investigative authorities, whether it is the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office or the National Bureau of Investigation, have virtually no access to the New Ljubljana Bank or are unable to access the files while at the same time investigating the confidential banking documents of individuals or companies in the New Ljubljana Bank, a private institution. The moment when the work of the investigating authorities is systematically hampered and nothing is done in the direction of the bank is done, the owners of this institution do nothing, the government and the National Assembly do nothing, it is clear that it is organised systemic corruption. From this point of view, the debate on the response of the President of the Government is more than necessary, because the Government is the manager of state property indirectly, directly, directly as the owner, indirectly through the institutions which it controls and which it also owns, and if it does nothing, it is more than obvious that this is an agreed game. And to expect something to change in such a layout as it is now is actually unrealistic, so we expect and we will support this debate on the government's response to a question sent to the Prime Minister. The other institutions investigating this system have also become silent, have not supplied the documentation to the Commission of Inquiry, but the Bank of Slovenia is in limited quantity, the Court prohibits, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption did not wish to hand over the documentation now to the new Commission of Inquiry. In short, it's a system that's hidden behind a bank secret, and it's easy to understand it differently than it's a systemic approach with the blessing of the government, it's impossible. This is said to be more than necessary. Much more than when we talk about the third recapitalisation of the banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u249	We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. There were 13 votes in favour and 40 votes in favour. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožet Tank, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jožet Tank's question on the appointment of the Director-General of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you very much for your word. The university clinical center is the largest money sink in public health. This is a public secret from the beginning of the investment of the clinical centre, and even now, when various interventions are being carried out in this system, there is nothing different, no change. Many write about the fact that the UKC is directly influenced by Janez Zemlaric, this is what you have everywhere in the media. And what's more, there are some or most suppliers with some systems for overpriced payment of both services and supplies and more. It's not about transparent spending of public money, it's not about purposeful spending, but it's where a lot of people feed. One such company is Mark Medical, who is also one of the co-owners of Mladina via the roof company. When we ask the President of the Government what it is to do to break these bad practices, he talks about fine principles, ethics, transparency, respect for the rule of law and so on. However, when we look at who is preferred to be the director of the clinical centre and who is appointed as the perpetrator of the duty, we come up with a problem, because the person who is now acting as the director of the clinical centre is the person who was involved in the non-transparent use of money from the time he served in the supervisory board, and through the fictitious collection of offers, the deal he was running for himself with his partner was obtained by the partner. It is unrealistic to expect any changes in the health system or in the country’s largest clinic to be expected if people who are running for office are knowingly supported and have been involved in various speculations. Regrettably, the Minister said that Mr Baricic, who has been appointed as acting officer and is also the chief candidate of the regular directorship, trusts that he is supported by the President of the Government, probably in the same way as he did not respond to this statement, and I think that, as the debate on corruption is necessary, I do not know, in TES, in banks, it is also necessary to discuss how to recruit and perform functions in the country's largest clinic. We will therefore support this proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u251	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u252	In Novi Slovenija, we will support the proposal to discuss the Government's response to the appointment of the new Director-General of the University Clinical Centre, because this is an extremely sensitive topic. Health care in general is one of the hot topics in this society, according to all the circumstances and facts that are also taking place in this institution, starting with children’s heart surgery, oncology institute and so on. The source of all these problems is not in these departments, but in the head itself, in the decision-making factor itself. And one of the problems that will continue here is media discovery, in which case various such and different controversial activities of the new acting director of UKC Ljubljana. If we have from the past known bad practices of former director Vrhunc, then it is entirely illogical for the new director of the same poor director who allegedly acted corruptly to be employed. And only a few days after he was appointed V.D. Director. In short, the problem is that bad practices will continue in UKC Ljubljana. Unfortunately, this gentleman in question, who was selected on one of the tenders in the way that his competition was a woman's company, has the support of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If he did not have one, he could not be appointed, because the supervisory board of the institution consists of members of the Government and you have scissors and canvas to replace these members of the board of the institution, and this gentleman would not then be the v. d. Director. This is not about prestige, but it is also about the safety of patients, it is about whether we will continue to have the University Clinical Centre, which will be that intellectual top of the Slovenian health system. In doing so, it must remain that UKC Ljubljana will start a new path. Unfortunately, however, the debate in this direction that Mr Baričič is a good director, the right person, is not the right one. That is why we support the debate on the response of the Prime Minister to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u253	Mr Branko Zorman has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my friend! Now there are various hints of who this new director is and all these hints are just from the media. All that is officially known is that there are 5 candidates eligible for tender. We know that tomorrow there will be a world of UKC institutions where these candidates will present their programmes. Let me draw attention to the fact that this year the Ministry of Health issued criteria and a protocol on how to choose and what members of the Health Services Councils are called. All these members of the boards of institutions are required to have professional competences both in the knowledge of the health system and health legislation, the economy, investments, balance sheets and the like, and in the knowledge of the institution to which they apply. Similar criteria then apply further, i.e. to directors, but more is expected. They must present the vision of an institution, and it is precisely these visions that will be presented tomorrow. I would point out that the members of the UKC Council are obliged to choose the most competent, most professional, one who will be able to consolidate this institution on the inside. Let me point out that the resounding media cases that have taken place this year or in previous years, I'm sorry, we know here what was going on at the neurological clinic, we know what was going on in baby heart surgery, mainly because of the bad part of the previous leadership. I sincerely hope that whoever will be the new director of the UKC will do this work in a responsible manner and that it will primarily ensure that the UKC team starts to operate homogeneously and as one. This is essentially the most important thing for us as patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u255	Any other explanation for the voice? Secondly, it is also necessary to say how you will vote, even though it is understood how you will vote as a coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u256	Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u257	No, you don't have to, it's clear. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 45. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Logar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič on the question of the Mag. Anzeta Logar in connection with the participation of the judiciary with the legislative branch of the authorities in the investigation of the bank hole. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 45. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen to Violet Tomić's question on the legal regulation of the area of chimney services. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. In our opinion, the Minister did not do her job. She had more than a year to write and harmonize the law. But as she said in her reply to my question, the law will be followed by an urgent procedure. Although the law is so inconsistent that a regular procedure is necessary. It regulates such important issues as safety, health, the environment, fire safety, heating. She also said that she was not preparing for an extension of the transitional period in which she could draw up a better, coordinated proposal with the interested public. This means that no law on chimney services or amendment of the Environmental Protection Act will be passed and we will have with 1. 1. 2016 chaos. Since the Minister is clearly failing to carry out her work and thereby endangers safe health and the environment, I propose that a general debate be held on her response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u259	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 43. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Bojan Podkórška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejana Židan to the question of the Member State Bojana Podkrajška concerning the amendments to the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2014-2020. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Dusan Mumorr, Minister of Finance, to the question of Mr Mesca, on behalf of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Mr Luka Mesec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I asked Mr Dusan Mumorr, Minister of Finance, about the situation in the DUTB and why the Government did not make the conclusions we adopted on 7 October on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. At that time, the Commission addressed two matters for the supervision of public finances. The first was the remuneration of the DUTB management and the corrective actions of the Court of Auditors which the DUTB failed to carry out and the second was the operation of DUTB in the cases of Sava, Autotechna and T-2 respectively. On both points, we found the following. For one thing, it is not only the outgoing Mansson and Torbjörn who are responsible for wage policy, but that it was more widespread. For example, Mr Janne Harjunpää, who is not a member of the board of directors at all, receives a salary of EUR 30 000 gross a month, and this situation has not improved after the Government has placed three of its people on the board of directors, and it has not even improved since the Court of Auditors imposed corrective measures, but they have simply moved on. Another time. At least two of the newly installed members of the Management Board have proved to be in conflict of interest. The first is that he is now the executive director of a bad bank, at the same time managing the Factor Bank. Here is the question whether these two functions are even possible in the same breath. Secondly, the question is whether it is legitimate that the executive director of a bad bank is also the manager of an institution that has transferred its loans to a bad bank. On the other hand, Mr Škrubej, who was most likely to have acted as a lobbyist who, among other things, sought to take over T-2 by Austria Telekom, and is now likely to have the same interest in DUTB T-2. On this basis, we have come to a very clear conclusion, namely that the Public Finance Supervisory Commission is ordering the Government to suspend the remaining members of the Management Board and appoint new members immediately. The government did not do this, nor did the Minister answer my question why it did not. The decision of the working body is clear and the government here has nothing to do with it. I therefore propose a general debate in which we will discuss two things. First, the ratio of the National Assembly as legislator to the Government as executive, and secondly, the situation in a bad bank that is far from being resolved. Right now, the government is just [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u261	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 44. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljudmila Novak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the response of Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, to Mrs Ludmila Novak's question on paediatric care. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Mr Ljub Žnidar's question on the establishment of the State Forestry Company is addressed to Mr Žnidar. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 43. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister of the Environment of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, to the question sent by Matjaž Hanžka on the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group is given by Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u262	Thank you very much. We can assess the area in a number of ways. One of these is their attitude toward people and their attitude toward the environment, the physical environment, nature, as we say. The attitude toward people, probably what they think and what they do, what laws they adopt regarding aid or helplessness toward the poor. We're not gonna talk about this. However, the relationship to the environment is, unfortunately, mostly negative. We assess how they are trying to solve the damaged environment, but it would be better to assess how they care about a better environment, but unfortunately we are very often forced to decide. And about that, I asked both ministers what they thought they were going to do to improve the already destroyed environment in Celje and the Celje Cauldron. The European Court of Justice has already imposed this on the State and the State is, by the Constitution, in citing paragraph 72, "must take care of a healthy environment". They were both making excuses. The Minister of the Environment said they were looking for the owner of the land, looking for the one who would finance the next one they found, went bankrupt and so on. She also said that for over a hundred years, toxic substances have been put away there, but we can't think that we can handle this right away. I know I won't be right away, but we could start right now. The Minister of Health explained that it was not as serious a mortality as it was and showed some other indicators that they were a little less likely to die in Celje than we thought. But these are excuses themselves. Here I would mention a specific case, but there is no need to look for the owners in particular. There are 500 cubic metres of highly toxic waste in the celery park near the children’s playground, where people walk, and for one and a half years they have been thinking about who would take them and clean up the celery park. Nobody cares. We should talk about this in the National Assembly and this could also be a start for other parts of Slovenia, which are also neglected in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u263	We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 44. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Mr Zdravka Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, and Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irene Majcen, will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology to the question of revitalisation and revitalisation of Pohorje. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. It is also clear from this debate under point 1 that, in all other problems, we have in particular problems with the Banks Claims Management Company. Some say it's not appropriate to call it a bad bank, but as long as it works, it doesn't deserve a better name. On the other hand, unfortunately, I have to say, as a spatial sociologist, that there have been problems with the Ministry of Environment and Space within decades. Most people are thinking about what this has to do with Pohor. A lot of things. A colleague from the SDS Group spoke at point 1 about the pearls of Slovenian tourism, and he wrote some of them. Usually, when this is mentioned, forget that Slovenia exists beyond the Trojans, mostly when foreigners are taken somewhere, they are taken to Postojna Cave, a little after Ljubljana, if there is no time for Bled, Lipica, and then somehow it stops. The pearl of Slovenian tourism has been reslept by Pohorje. This is partly due to the activity of a bad bank which is not carried out by a bad bank. This is the area of restructuring. The Minister of State himself has repeatedly warned of this. We have some closed hotels on Pohorje today which are being sold, so I asked the Minister in this direction, and I asked the Minister more in the direction of the problem, putting various activities into the space of the Pohorje case, mountain biking, which is a problem that we are not seriously dealing with, on the one hand, on the other hand, often the abject drivers of quadricycles and bicyclists at Pohorje. She didn't answer that at all. While the Minister said that nothing essential would be done in connection with the tourism reactivation of Pohorje. This is not a question, a problem, a challenge only Maribor, 16 municipalities somehow share it, are also very interested in such clans, fine people, Pohorke and Pohorci, and I think it is necessary to discuss this important area. I hope that at least the Members and Members of Parliament will see Pohorje from work, if we do not look at him from the home window, vote and support the proposal to hold a public debate on this particular case in the light of the sectoral obstacle and also in the light of the fact that finally this Company for Bank Claims Management ceases to be a body for the dead dance of the Slovenian transition, but a body for the restructuring of the Slovenian economy, which will provide new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u265	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 12 votes in favour and 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to the question of Mr Franz Breznik's question on the multi-residential reserve funds. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. There were 12 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the preparation of a comprehensive reform of the judicial system in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 10 for them and 47 for them. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate in the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Mr Zvonk Lah's question on the question of Mr Jidan's delegation concerning the amendment of the operational rural development programme. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 13 votes in favour and 43 votes in favour. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Commissioner, Mr Trček, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorje, and the Minister of Culture of Mag. Lilliana Bizjak Mlakar on the question by Dr. Franca Trčka regarding the fate of the art collection Factor banka, d.d. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. It is a very, very important topic and it is nice to conclude today with a little debate on culture. The bank factor is, as you know, in a controlled liquidation. Factor bank was an exception compared to other Slovenian banks. I hope at least at SMC they learned a little about this because they had a direct opportunity. Mr Fabio Škopac, Director of the Bank, decided not to give money to sport, but to say it about culture or art. Pod, if I may put it this way, the curatorship of Dr. Brejc created a very important art collection, now I would say classics, in particular Slovenian art and partly sculpture, which counts almost 300 parts. I don't know if that's funny, buddy Tank. It's not funny going on. One work by Emerik Bernard also hangs here, Materada is his address, in the lobby of the balcony. Now in the liquidation process, you've been thinking about what to do with it. The modern gallery, of course, felt here to get this, but we Mariborians said that maybe our gallery would get something else. The Maribor Cultural Committee discussed this, suddenly it was forgotten, a few weeks ago I got panic calls and then the media grabbed it to sell it now for a million euros. Most of this, the collection is essentially public, about 90% of this collection is from Parliament, government, ministries. And of this collection are 85 parts that are actually, if you want, national, national, as you prefer, treasures. They have a filling up if anyone said, and they must not be removed from Slovenia, but they are still so cheap to sell. Look, I've been working as a professor for quite some time now on social development, and I could now tell you not how many countries have gone into crisis, but to solve the crisis in such a way as to sell their artistic heritage, I've never seen that. Many here speak in the face of the refugee crisis, it is necessary to protect Slovenian culture. Although I do not share this story of limitation, setting the wire up and down, this is a fine example to make this discussion and the lacquer paper, whether you are for Slovenian culture or not. And here's where you'll see it. If you vote against it, if it's against the SMC, whose daughter's father actually remembered it, then let's send a bullet to the head. Thank you. Culturally, of course, and decent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u267	Please don't take advantage of personal science, personal behavior and similar matters for cultural or, I'll say, unculture accounting. Really, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u268	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u269	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u270	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, these are the facts in Slovenia. Slovenia is a relatively small country, we are all sons, some are fathers, some are also other third aggregate states. A party with more than a third in Parliament has only a great opportunity to learn. And that's what I warned you about. If it were something you say, it would probably be my ex-family friend, if I put it that way, raise her hand and protest, but she's not. Maybe it will, I don't know, but please, this is my procedural proposal, allow me in this house to also be alerted if anyone has any knowledge to convey this knowledge to us. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u271	Gradually, Mrs. Janja Sluga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u272	Dear President, my procedural proposal is to remind Mr Trcko that it is by no means he who will explain to us and to those who attend or accompany this meeting what our vote means "in favour" or "against" a particular proposal. What our vote "yes" or "against" means, we can only explain ourselves, not you. And I'm not gonna let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u273	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 44. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in relation to minimum income. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 40. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic on the international forces of the Copenhagen Army. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, chairman. We're going to the United Left against this proposal. Not because we would oppose cooperation between neighbouring countries in the military field. That seems fine to us. We do not exclude the establishment of joint military units to operate in operations that take into account the decisions of the United Nations Security Council. We are not against the original agreement concluded in 1998 in Vidma before Slovenia entered into NATO. The agreement that we are voting on today is not really essential for us to continue our cooperation, which is fully legitimate. Finally, an agreement was concluded for an indefinite period of time. It is obviously necessary because, according to the Secretary of State, I quote, "it will allow this multinational structure to be integrated into NATO's force structure". End of quote. This is what we strongly oppose in the United Left. Our medium-term requirement in this area is not the last exit of Slovenia from NATO. In the short term, however, this dictates that we do not extend the operation of our units within the framework of NATO. In this particular case, this means that we should remain in the original agreement, not confirm what the revised version is today on the table. The original agreement was entirely independent of Nat's structures in the exclusive domain of the three neighbouring countries. The new agreement, on the other hand, already lays down in Article 1 the cooperation between the needs and objectives of NATO. It is also a problematic point of how to exit. It will enable the integration of this multinational structure into NATO's force structure. In addition, there is also a problematic government interpretation of Article 13 of the Agreement, by which it is not possible to withdraw without the consent of the other parties to the Agreement. With such an agreement, colleagues, colleagues, the proponents of the Slovenian Army are pushing the army into a position where it will have to participate directly in NATO's aggressive projects specifically directed against friendly countries, such as the Russian Federation. I have further in mind very specific projects, not some kind of scarecrow in the indefinite future, specific projects such as warheads and other rapid intervention forces that are designed for aggressive relations against the Russian Federation. The ethical question is also raised as to whether cooperation with the country that participated in the aggression against Libya is admissible, which is one of the causes of the current refugee crisis. We are also detained until cooperation with a country that uses armed forces to deport naked refugees. We will therefore vote against it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u275	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 12. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We turn to the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The draft decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will relieve the Vice-President of mags in the Committee on Foreign Policy. Jana Jenko. His name is Mr. Peter Wilphan. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. We will support this proposal for a decision. I take this opportunity to thank my Vice-President Jani Jenko for his proper cooperation within the Committee on Foreign Policy and I am pleased, I am sure, to have good cooperation with my new Vice-President, Comrade Peter Wilfan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u277	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. That concludes this point. the agenda. I'm adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
