ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Ms. Marinka Levičar, Mrs. Marusha Škopac, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer, Mrs. Suzanne Leap Šimenko, Mrs. Iva Dimic from 16.30 p.m., Mrs. Ludmila Novak from 16.30 p.m., Mr. Janez Janša, mag. Anže Logar, Mr Andrej Čuš, Dr Dragan Matić, Mr Branislav Rajić, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek by 3 p.m., Mr. Tomaž Lisec, Dr. Laszlo Göncz from 17 p.m. on, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Miha Kordish, Mr Luka Mesec and Dr. Franz Ducky. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 4 December 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 68 Members and Members were present, 67 of them voted against and one against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. POINT OF THE DAY LINE, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF THE PROCEDURE UNDER COVER 2. REPRESENTATIVE 13. Article REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 1. REPRESENTATIVE 13. A MEMBER OF THE INTEGRATION AND COOPERATION LAW. The proposal for a decision was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this motion for a decision, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft decision, I first give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much. For an introduction of 15 minutes, a little time, but we'll be done in the debate. As you know, as far as mags are concerned. Klemenčič, for a long time in fact, and in this mandate there is also a number of evidences of irregularities, suspicions of corruption and so on. In fact, we could also combine this into an interpolation and present it to this national assembly. However, such interpretation would be a political act, a political decision, and for the first time in the history of the National Assembly and this law we have served the second paragraph of Article 13 concerning the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. This law, or provision, allows the National Assembly, as an institution, to impose on the Commission to prevent corruption – I stress, imposes on the Commission to prevent corruption – to carry out appropriate checks for a certain public official. Our decision was therefore relatively clear, and we respected and amended the Legislative and Legal Service. So we wanted to achieve what? To take a decision today, and to help you, the coalition, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not the one who stands out and decides, but that all the evidence at Mr Klemenčič's expense should be left to an independent institution, this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. This one's supposed to decide. But yesterday at the board meeting, what happened? This is what happened. After extensive presentations and performances by SDS Members, the coalition resumed. Yeah, you can laugh, too. But on your part, you count there about 55 or how many members of the coalition, there was a representative, Mrs Koleša, who briefly said a few words that I had refused, and she remained silent. And the hall shut up, and the coalition shut up. There was a vote, and what happened? The proposal for a decision was rejected. From this I conclude that the hearts of the coalition Members and the brain work slightly differently than the official command does. Meaning, you had nothing to say, you didn't want to say anything to defend Mr Klemenčič, but you simply pressed the counter button. Therefore, in today's debate, whatever it may be, I will always come by from the bench and say, "Yesterday you had the opportunity to speak, yesterday you had the opportunity to defend it, yesterday you had the opportunity to leave the Commission to prevent corruption to do its job, and today it is too late." That's why there will be no conclusions today. It will not be your fault, not because of the opposition's fault, because you rejected it, and because you cannot correct it today, you have accepted a guarantee letter, which is said to him: "We guarantee the corrupt behaviour of Mr Klemenčič from the past also in the future." This is totally contrary to what you spent on Slovenia before the elections, in particular the largest coalition party, and you swore on everything alive, on how you will throw in this country that will clean up all the trouble. Now spread it out. Let's get to the point. The public does not distinguish corruption under the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act from what is stated in the Penal Code, where certain criminal acts of corruption are defined. When we talk about corruption under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, it is not necessarily a crime of corruption. But a simple person certainly imagines: newspaper paper, two men, a blue envelope, you know, a television shot. In short, for a simple person, it's a bribe, giving, accepting bribes and so on, even though that's not the case. In fact, under this law, corruption is any violation of the duty of officials and responsible persons in the public or private sector, as well as of the conduct of persons who are instigators of an offence or persons who may benefit from an infringement because of the directly or indirectly promised, offered or requested, accepted or expected benefit for themselves or for others. Have you ever done that before? I won't say anything to myself. I don't know what you're saying. The definition of corruption we have is, of course, to avoid Europe, because it is not in Europe. The Anti-Corruption Commission is also a means of avoiding Europe because it is not in Europe, except in the Western Balkans, Albania and Moldova, where we have exported, as the Russians have exported the revolution, such solutions. Let's get some readings, because I won't be able to tell them anymore, so I'll just be out of the bench. You were looking for a justice minister; how you found him would not tell the public exactly, but we do have a justice minister whom you elected. However, the gentleman had previously carried out the tasks of the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and in 2014 we received the Court of Auditors' audit report, which is a very interesting act, listing a number of infringements by the Commission to prevent corruption. Some are from the time of Mr Kos and Mr Klemenčič has carried out these corrective measures, and many are from the time of Mr Klemenčič. Yesterday he identified himself to all those from the time of Mr Kos, but he did not define himself to those from his time and sins. Let's take a look at some of these readings. A civil law contract, EUR 16 000, was concluded with two contractors. However, the Court of Auditors found that there should be a regular working relationship. Infringement, perfect. It corresponds to the signs of corruption in full in the article I mentioned earlier. They bought themselves €17 000,974 of movable property; they probably bought tables, chairs, nice equipment, ficuses, I don't know what they were buying, moving assets. We should not have done this, the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets did not allow them to do this. We're already at 34,000 euros. Corruption directly by Mr Klemenčič and has nothing to do with Mr Kos. Paying the bills for cleaning the premises; I think it was before or not, it doesn't matter. Otherwise, a small amount is not a large amount, but it is contrary to the Public Finance Act. The payment of services of contractual value, contrary to Article 50 of the Public Finance Act, corresponds to the corrupt definition I have previously stated. In 2009, I do not know whether it was in the time of Mr Klemenčič or earlier; the lease agreement with the Capital Capital Society – this was then fixed by Mr Klemenčič and he also said yesterday, but he avoided those first sins. Procurement of electricity contrary to Article 24 of the Public Procurement Act — Corruption, by definition of the law. The interesting story is, of course, the following, because now I will be running out of time in 2008, 2009 Mr Klemenčič performed the duties of Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Secretary of State Katarina Kresal. [[…]] Her predecessor, Mr Mate, has already concluded appropriate agreements and contracts with the DSU, i.e. with the state firm for building premises for the entire police and the Ministry of Interior, the so-called DSU Palace in Litostorski. Mrs. Kresalova took a look at her right after her term of office. She's all excited. She was clapping. The excitement was immeasurable how beautiful the police and the Ministry of the Interior will get. I've been in there for a few months. [[…]] Well, fourteen days or three weeks after that, she said, "No, that's not possible, the police can't move there." In fact, 100 or 200 meters away are those big gas silos, that would be dangerous for the police. It's interesting, but it's not dangerous for a kindergarten or a school that's nearby. Of course it was a trick, so we made it clear there was nothing else. She cancelled the contract and, of course, there was a contract with her personal friend, Mr Pogačar. I've been broadcasting pictures up here in that 2008-2012 term. She claimed she didn't know him, but then I showed her up here a picture of her toasting him there at a wedding in Celje. But interesting thing – the rental of this business, which was corruption, pure corruption, with the signature of the KPK, but later, he supervised, you will not believe anyone, Mr Klemenčič. He was the renting supervisor for this building. Mr Soltes, the party's two-month president, sat inside for the purpose of leaving between the MEPs; he also guaranteed that everything was fine. They guaranteed, they supervised, Mr Soltes even wrote one document saying the lease was fine. But of course that wasn't true. Mr Klemenčič then left there; I think it is timely, he is a very intelligent man, very timely to realize that something is wrong. In fact, Mr Pogačar paid 125 000 euros to build that building outside Bežigrad. €136 000 was directed by Mrs Kresalov every month. This means that the loan came back peacefully, paid peacefully, and put EUR 11,000 in his pocket. You imagine – you take a loan, you build a house, you rent a country, and, of course, 11,000 euros of net profit a month, so we're clear. Well, when we insisted that this was not a clean business, that something was very wrong here, at that time Mr Klemenčič left, he was no longer there. For three or four days after his departure, the magazines wrote that he was the future head of the KPK, saying that things had been arranged in advance. This has also happened, of course, and we have insisted that Mr Klemenčič and Mr Soltes make clear what is happening with the rental of the building of the NPU, whether everything is fine here or not. You will not believe it; two such experts, the first with a doctorate, Mr Soltes, the second with a Master's degree, Mr Klemenčič, all legal knowledge, studying abroad, have solved one task alone – EUR 136 thousand minus EUR 125 thousand is EUR 11,000. It took years and something to calculate. Can you imagine? And they gasped, "Yes, but yes, that's corruption." First Mr. Soltes, then Mr. Klemenčič. So, corruption is something you've controlled before. Isn't that an interesting story? We heard yesterday at a board meeting that Mrs Brezigar was also on this committee, you will not believe. It's a lie! It's a lie! But there was something else back then. Mr Škrlec visited Mrs Brezigar and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and told them that they could not work in such poor jobs. But they had new spaces, don't you imagine? New premises, newly equipped, former home of JLA opposite the bus station in Ljubljana. And, of course, he convinced her that they must go out and that they must rent Mr Pogačar's premises. Then the elections came, and I broke that contract, and Mr Pogačar is in personal bankruptcy and the company is also bankrupt. That's an interesting story. There are a few things that need to be said next. Whether newspapers have supernatural abilities or journalists, or they are corrupt practices. At the time of Mr Klemenčič, some Slovenian media clearly announced: the call will be published on KPK, and Matjaž Mešnjak will be selected. Another contribution – once again they will have one invitation to tender, Natalija Vloga will be selected. Unbelievable. Look, 16, 17 candidates have signed up, media reports have come true. Because journalists are not prophets, they are not fortune tellers, I'm guessing it's corruption and nothing else. Mr Klemenčič will inform you that he has reviewed everything and found everything to be excellent and praised them. Yeah, of course it's true, but the inspectorate doesn't know if any of the actions are corrupt or not, but it's looking at the papers as to whether they were taken legally. But corruption does not make us clear. If you remember, some employment with Mr Tank and Mr Janša, who have never seen those people, has never seen them, but has declared corruption. So it's also corruption. More, the rest of the points are from the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u3	The proposal for a decision is 8. 12. 2015 discussed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the Committee did not adopt the text of the proposal for a decision after the discussion, the president of the Committee found that the proposal for a decision was closed at the working body meeting. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u4	Thank you, President for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 29th emergency meeting. 12. 2015 as a parent labour body, considered the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure pursuant to Article 13, paragraph 2, concerning the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. Before that, the Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the complementary material of the applicant, the amendment of the proposer and the opinion of the Government of 8. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On behalf of the applicant, a Member of Parliament, Dr Vinko Gorenak, presented the content of the proposal and explained why a proposal for a decision had been selected in the light of the content of the issue, rather than an institution of interpretation, since most of the observations relating to the current Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič refers to his work before the ministerial function, when he was also Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior and later President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. It also explained the individual point of the proposal for a decision below. On the basis of a written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service added a further point 5 of the amended proposal to the decision, which specifically highlighted the lack of content of the Act by the PSC on 7. 1. 2013 issued in the procedure for the supervision of the assets of the Presidents of Parliament, and at points 7 and 12a, it expressed, in the same way as in the written opinion, its concerns about the provision of Article 21 of the Law, which provides that the supervision of the assets of the President of the Commission is within the exclusive competence of the National Assembly and not of the PSC. The representative of the Government, the Secretary-General, presented a written opinion of the Government, which shows that the events and actions of the Minister relate to the period 2009 to 2014, when he served as Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior and the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, i.e. to a period more than 6 years ago from the date of his appointment as Minister of the Government. He also presented the facts in which the Government has no reason to doubt the integrity of the Magi. Klemenčič, therefore, disagrees with the proposal for a decision. Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič then categorically rejected all the findings and explained each point separately in his definition. In the debate, members and members of a committee of opposition Members and Members of Parliament highlighted corruption as a broad concept, which is often difficult to prove in practice. Like obvious mags. Klemenčičev was exposed to the following actions in the debate: alleged alleged human rights violations in the process of controlling the property situation of representatives of parliamentary parties, the suspension of the application of property and the registration of his spouse's company, for which they thought he should take responsibility, and a number of other perceptions. Members of a coalition committee and an unrelated Member claimed that the above-mentioned acts against the Magi were identical. Klemenčice presented and dealt with by the Mandate-Electorial Commission in the previous year, where no dispute was found in this regard. The Committee then voted on the amendment and did not adopt it, nor did it adopt the proposed decision and was it finally found that the proceedings were concluded on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u5	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. I'm sorry, Mag. Darko Krašovac, Secretary General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Minister Klemenčič's observations and actions relate to the period when Minister Klemenčič was not a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It covers the period from 2009 to 2014, when he served as State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior and the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. In order to justify the proposal of their facts, the applicants relied mainly on the Commission's principled opinion on the prevention of corruption in the recruitment of the National Investigation Office and the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia on the regularity of the conduct of non-governmental and judicial budgetary users. Among the auditors was the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which was then chaired by mag. Klementzel. The two procedures led by the KPK and the Court of Auditors at the time are combined with the fact that none of the authorities has identified any behaviour of the Magi. Klemenčice, which would constitute a suspicion of corruption or a breach of the integrity of the public sector. This is also confirmed by the fact that neither the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, on its own initiative, has been against the Magi to date. Klemenčič has not introduced a procedure nor has she proposed such a procedure by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the same as the National Assembly, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which is responsible for the exercise and protection of public interest, and both are obliged to require, on an official basis, the introduction of a procedure before the Commission to prevent corruption. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, following an audit of the draft audit report, did not impose any corrective action on the Anti-Corruption Commission, both during the audit procedure and after the issuance of the audit report, found no infringements of the Magi obligation. A Klemenčnik who would constitute an offence or a suspicion of a crime. It is clear, however, that there is no breach of the obligation to operate, since the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia has failed to notify the National Assembly or has not called for the discharge of the responsible person, as provided for in Article 29 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. Because it's the obvious that comes from the time when the mags. Klemenčič was not a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took into account, in particular, the expert judgement of independent state authorities and state inspection services, which carried out the supervisory procedures for the operation of mags. Klemenčič at the time of serving as State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior and Presidency of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and did not find any suspicions as set out in the proposal to convene this extraordinary meeting. In the light of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no reason to doubt the integrity of the Magi. Klemenčič, because of this proposal it does not support. In giving its opinion, the government also took into account the work of the Magi. Klemenčič as Minister of Justice. Under the guidance of the Magi. Klemenčič's Ministry of Justice, through the preparation of a package of three novels of judicial and prosecutorial legislation, laid the legal basis for the implementation of the recommendations made by Slovenia two years ago by the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe or Greece in the field of limiting corruption risks, strengthening integrity and ethics in justice. In March this year, the National Assembly adopted a so-called judicial and prosecutorial package of legislation with which changes were made in the area of justice, with a strong system of strengthening the mechanisms for ethical functioning of the judiciary or judicial authorities. The basis for the judicial ethical codes and for the establishment of ethical commissions that have already been established at that time is given. A more objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for election to the judicial and state prosecution functions has been established, and mechanisms have been put in place to establish higher standards of official and private conduct and conduct of function holders in the judiciary. At the same time, the changes have been geared towards greater efficiency in the functioning of the judiciary – thus increasing the possibility of assigning district judges to district courts for the purpose of more efficient allocation of cases – and to a faster resolution of cases or better administration of courts. In parallel, a special department was established to prosecute crime more effectively at the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia for procedures relating to the confiscation of assets of illegal origin and the abolition of the staffing restrictions for the appointment of new state prosecutors with special knowledge to the Special Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia and the State Prosecutor’s Councils in the human resources sector, provided 30 new state prosecutors who had already been appointed to office in 2015. In the event of organisational upgrades and human resources reinforcements, the adoption of the amendment to the Code of Penalties adopted by the National Assembly with a high majority of votes raised the prescribed prison sentences for socially particularly dangerous and complicated corruption crimes against the economy and against official duty. The offences are now subject to compulsory fines and the jurisdiction of the court has been transferred to a district court where only individual judges are not on trial. The commitment of Minister Klemenčič to strengthening the rule of law, upgrading existing anti-corruption mechanisms and increasing transparency in the public sector is not only evident from the work already done but also from the priorities of the Ministry of Justice in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear President, all the rest of you! Here we can only find that the opinion of the Government does not refer to the points that we have presented to the material or to this item on the agenda. We are not discussing the mini judicial reform in this part. We are not discussing what will happen if Minister Klemenčič continues to do so, but we are talking decisively only about the actions and events that have been related to his mainly functionary work in past history. And on this subject, at these points, the government practically answered nothing. And given that you are very consistent in handling the materials that we are investing in the National Assembly – we are making conclusions, amendments and so on – as a responsible person of the National Assembly, we should reject this opinion of the Government because it is inadequate, it does not correspond to the agenda. We are not here to give thanks to Mr Klemenčič, but we are talking about his past actions and actions that have signs of corruption, and all the actions and all the obvious are documented and reasoned, including numbers. And in view of this, Mr President, that the Government in this opinion also excuses that all acts have been committed at a time or should have been committed at a time when Mr Klemenčič was not Minister, I can only draw your attention to the two facts set out in this mandate. Mrs Klaudija Markež, who was appointed Minister, did not do what she had to do, nor did you do as an official in the past periods. Ms Stanka Setnikar Cankar did not do those readings about the excessive fees at the time of her ministerial office, but rather when she was not an official. And we're reading Mr. Klemenčič's actions from when he was an officer. When he was an officer. The vast majority of these things are from a time when he was an official, and that is why this opinion of the government is inappropriate. The President of the KPK Senate is an official, this is an indisputable fact, because he has to report to the State Assembly's Mandate-Electorial Commission as an official, and the Secretary of State is also an official because he is committed to reporting to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I regret, Mr President, that you have not done your role as President of the National Assembly in accordance with the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and have rejected that opinion of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u9	I think you've made your point. What needs to be said in addition is that this opinion of the Government is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You did not specify any basis on which you could request a precise opinion from the Government. The Government is participating in this procedure in accordance with this Rules of Procedure and we do not need additional findings in fact. However, most of the answers, including the substantive explanation, will be available only when the Government is able to respond substantively and will answer the Magi itself. Klementzel. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for them Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u10	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister and Minister, Secretary of State! The position of Minister in each country is one of the most responsible, most important functions and individual holding such a high office must be an absolute person and also an absolute moral integrity. There is probably no doubt about this in Slovenia, and we should not talk about it at all, and this is perfectly self-evident in countries with advanced democracy. And as soon as there is any suspicion, I warn you, only when a suspicion of a certain irregularity arises does it immediately come to the point that the official has to step down or withdraw from office, position. I'm afraid that's not the case with us. In our country, we still have difficulties taking responsibility from officials; not only objective, but even subjective responsibilities, and we are thinking of all functions completely at all levels. Let's move on. If we look at the specific explanations of the proposed decision, as defined in paragraphs 12 and 13 of the material, we can say that these findings, or at least some of them, have a basis in both written and publicly accessible materials. These findings certainly require clear, unequivocal answers and also clarifications. And in New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, we have given our co-signatures to the proposal for the decision under consideration primarily for the reason that all doubts about the integrity of Mr Klemenčič's Minister of Justice are removed and that the Minister is given the opportunity to make these observations through the parliamentary process also reject them. We can say that we listened attentively to his defense yesterday at the parent's working body meeting, but he did not give convincing answers to all the obvious, but he still has an opportunity, of course, today during the debate. In particular, they would point out, in their position, the strange role of Mr Klemenčič at the time he served as President of the KPK and was committed to submitting documentation to the parliamentary investigative commission regarding the investigation of the bank hole. This requires further clarification, as despite the indisputable legal basis for the submission of such documentation, i.e., I am talking about Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the President of the PSC has rejected the extradition of the required documentation. His arguments for such a decision, i.e. that the documentation has been submitted to the police and the prosecution, that this is, as it were, the data of bank secrecy and that it is a matter of protecting the applicants, are not acceptable. Indeed, we are convinced that Mr Klemenčič, as President of the KPK, was obliged by law to hand over or ensure that all documentation relating to banking crime, other violations of banking law and also violations are provided for in the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. This is particularly highlighted for the reason that it is also a magnificence. Klemenčič has made an important contribution to identifying irregularities, illegality in the allocation of disputed loans in state banks taking place slowly, too slowly, and a number of crimes related to banking crime have, as a result, become obsolete or are now just ahead of that; he has also pointed out this to one of the meetings of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, Mr Medja. In this direction, we are critical to the work of Mr Klemenčič at the time he served as President of the KPK, and we are convinced that whether the rejection of the documentation to the Parliamentary Investigative Commission was correct and legal or whether such conduct was directed towards the protection of those who have drilled a bank hole in our system banks, of course the Commission had to say in order to prevent corruption. It is in recent days that the media have again written about the fact that we still have around €6 billion of poor loans in our state banks, despite the rehabilitation of the system with €5 billion in tax money. Among these poor loans is a significant percentage of those who have been awarded so much to beautiful eyes, by telephone or by restaurant arrangement, without insurance and without checking the credit rating of the borrower. At least that is how Mr Klemenčič orally explained on the Commission of Inquiry. Clearly, in many cases it was not just the corrupt behaviour of bank officials, but even criminal acts. All such conduct had the power and right to review and consider the parliamentary commission of inquiry, of course, provided that the State authorities provided it with the necessary documentation. That, unfortunately, was not the case. This documentation by the Commission to prevent corruption at the time when Mr Klemenčič was Head of the KPK was not available. And we insist on that, and there weren't any answers to that yesterday either. For this very reason, once again, we regret the fact that at least this decision has not been adopted on the home working body, where the issue of the duty to deliver the KPC documentation to the parliamentary investigative committee would therefore be clarified definitively. Allow me to remind you of one document that Mr Klemenčič or the entire Chamber of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has sent to all decision makers — the Government, the President of the State, all parliamentary parties, Members — after leaving the post of President of the KPK, that was 3. 12. 2013 which very nicely identifies 15 measures as recommendations to state institutions to address corruption risks, clienteleism, and corruption in general. And in these recommendations, these were recommendations, Mr Klemenčič, you probably know them, I can also make 15 recommendations, and at the beginning they touch on the establishment of a public and transparent investigation of TES 6 – the deadline within which the investigation must be completed is 12 months – and the recommendation to set up a public and transparent investigation of the bank hole – the deadline within which the investigation must be completed is 12 months. [[…]] A series of other very effective measures, including recalling the mayor. Then the so-called legislative trail as recommendation 9. I'm not gonna read them all because I'd spend too much time. But the key thing is that you mentioned specific deadlines in these recommendations, you also specifically mentioned the investigation of the bank hole following the example of Iceland. You are now a minister for one year and three months, and I therefore ask you publicly what you have done in a year and three months now, as a minister who also has an impact on government policy, in order to take these 15 measures, which you, as President of the KPK, have submitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? How many of these measures have you taken, how many have you implemented and how many have the Government adopted? In fact, here you specify the deadlines: 12 months for TES 6, 12 months to complete the investigation according to the Icelandic model for banks. You are a minister or this government is one year and three months, and unfortunately there are no results of these 15 measures. Here you can judge for yourself that there is one big difference between the time before the campaign and the time after the campaign. It's a time of populism and it's a time of reality and it's a time of work. For this reason, I would like to answer whether this is an official document of the Commission to prevent corruption and whether the Government will stick to this document and how long it will take for this document to be implemented. So the scissors and the canvas are in your hands. Above all, I stress once again that these 15 measures are very effective, they are very good and more than half of them could be supported by our opposition party. But the move is on your side to play this chess. So we suggest you roll up your sleeves. Start with the bank hole and TES 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u11	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today, for the first time in the National Assembly, we would decide on a proposal for a decision to introduce a procedure under Article 13, paragraph 2, concerning the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. This is an article defining the competence of the PSC to suspect corruption or other infringements. The second paragraph thus states that the request for the initiation of the procedure may also be made by the National Assembly. And today we're supposed to decide whether we're going to make such a request against the Minister of Mags. Goran Klemenčič, due to suspicion of corruption and violations of the integrity of the public sector. The applicants have opted for a path that is not normal and the reasons for the initiation of the procedure are explained in 12 points – points that define the Minister's career path from the State Secretary's office at the Ministry of Interior, as well as points relating to the work of the Minister as President of the PSC. And here are also some points concerning the functioning of the Minister's wife and related companies. In the Group of Unaffiliated Members, we will not define the points at which an extraordinary meeting is called. Our definition is of principled nature. We are convinced that transparency needs to be ensured for all public officials. To this end, we have the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which lays down in Article 41 the duty to register the official's assets. Articles 42 to 46, however, lay down which data on property should be reported, how and when changes in property status and sanctions are reported when disproportionately increased assets are found. Article 35 of the Act, however, refers to restrictions on the activities of the Authority and the organisation of the public sector with regard to the procurement of goods, services or works, the conclusion of public-private partnerships or the granting of special or exclusive rights to entities where the official is a member of the management or is involved in the institution's rights of at least 5%. The prohibition also applies to his family members. Thus, under Article 35 of the Law, the prohibition also applies to the operation of a public sector body or organisation by an official or his family member as a natural person. Officials shall thus be obliged within one month of their taking office, and thereafter no later than 8 days after each change, to transmit the name, mother number and head office of the entities to which they are themselves and their family members in a relationship. The Authority shall then forward the list of entities to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which shall publish it monthly on its website. The law on integrity and the prevention of corruption is clear on the application of officials' assets, and there are clear provisions on which public sector entities should not operate and how the list of those entities is drawn up. Members and Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will also be in favour of the future transparent use of public funds. Also in order to allow for a review of the assets of the official, as well as family members. The reference to complex legal procedures to prevent access to these funds is certainly having a negative impact on the perception of transparent consumption, as well as on the integrity of the public official serving these procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u13	Mr Jože Tanko, the parliamentary group has the floor. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suggest you ensure house order in this National Assembly. On the contrary, Mr Klemenčič, for the second time, he smoked in this room. You know that in accordance with the law, no such or other smoking is permitted as an act in the premises of the National Assembly, except in a specific place. This was happening in the hall, now on one corner, earlier on the other corner. And I suggest that you ensure that government officials, even if they are ministers, even if they are the ministers that Mr Cerar prefers, do not behave snobbishly or gistolicly here, but respect the house order, and you will take care of it. For it is unacceptable for you to see this and not react; it is unacceptable. For in contrary cases any of us for every little act, for perhaps some, I don't know what matter you give warnings and so on and you take words. In short, I suggest that, in terms of respect for the order of the House, we too, Members of the National Assembly, ensure the presence of a minister who is here "laufa" around, as if being taken down, once on the other side, smoking in this room, where we should not even afford these stupidities and insolences, and so on. In short, I propose that you take the meeting as it is appropriate in terms of the dignity and rules in force in this house.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u15	I didn't see him smoke. Otherwise, he is certainly not in the hall now and is properly provided for by the house order. But I do know that there are different regulations regarding smoking cigarettes that relate to smoking electronic cigarettes, but I will not let that happen. So in this regard, the conditions are what they must be. All the conditions for hearing are also met and I note that the presence of the Government is appropriate and we can proceed with the meeting. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, I am pleased to see that you are in a good mood, dear colleagues and I welcome you. It is clear from the activities of Members so far, especially the SDS, as well as of Nova Slovenije and now the unrelated Member of Dr Dobovška that their activities are intended for the personal and professional discrediting of Minister Goran Klemenčič. Under the cover of justice, the above mentioned cases referred to over and over again to various and varied emergency meetings where the Magus was repeatedly targeted. Goran Klemenčič. In this way, it is trying to create the impression that the Minister acted unlawfully, corruptly, even though all the allegations have been rejected repeatedly and repeatedly. Since the applicants of the extraordinary meeting obviously do not have credible arguments for interpretation or even a criminal complaint, they are searching for insecure media releases and sophisticatedly, through the institution of the National Assembly they are putting pressure on Minister Klemenčič and they want to discredit him, both in front of Members and, of course, in front of the Slovenian public. However, it is quite clear that they could apply directly to the Commission for the prevention of corruption or to other competent authorities. While we share the concerns and efforts of the SMC Group with the proposer of this meeting regarding the prevention of corruption and the violation of integrity in the public sector, we stress that the statements made to Minister Klemenčič by today's meeting stem from unverified media releases have never been confirmed, at the same time at a meeting of the Committee and have been publicly rejected several times before. Statements in the request for an extraordinary meeting and a proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure against magi. Goran Klemenčič, due to the suspicion of corruption and a violation of the integrity of the public sector, can therefore be considered as false and as a fraud to the public. In addition, it is a distraction from the quality of the mags. Klemenčič during the Commission's leadership to prevent corruption and now, at the time of the Ministry of Justice. The undeniable fact is that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is driven by mags. Goran Klemenčič has achieved the greatest reputation and respect in the public ever since her creation, so we can especially credit him with the great credit in the fight against corruption and thank him for his successful work. Minister Klemenčič was and is the face of the fight against corruption; let us recall that in 2013 he was precisely the name of his fight against corruption practices in 2013. Let me point out that in the SMC Group we do not intend to respond in detail to the individual questionable media or even anonymous findings of the proposed requirement. This will be very successful by the mag. I'm a jeweler. However, we would like to point out in particular the following: all the competent authorities have spoken of all the evidence of the applicants. None of them have identified the suspicion of corruption or breaches of the integrity of the public sector. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we consider this meeting to be unnecessary today, and we find that it is only a personal discreditation of a minister who works very well. It is totally unacceptable for the National Assembly to use such accounts. Of course, the purpose of today's meeting is to divert attention from good work, so I will allow myself to point out only a few of the undoubtedly successful results of his efforts and the work of his team here. In the fight against economic crime, the Ministry sent or appointed thirty new prosecutors. A special department has been set up to confiscate assets of illegal origin. Criminal penalties for corrupt crimes have also been raised. With regard to the abolition of judicial arrears, the legal restrictions on the allocation of cases for trial have been lifted. In addition, a legal framework has been adopted to establish specific investigative commissions in the event of suspected misuse of tax assets in large investment projects. The Prosecutor's Office has established a special section on procedures for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, and the staffing restrictions for the appointment of new state prosecutors have been lifted with special knowledge of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. The penalties for socially dangerous and extremely complex corruption crimes against the economy and against official duty have also been increased, with mandatory fines. Amendments to the regulatory arrangements of the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions, which exacerbate the conditions for the suspension of the execution of a prison sentence for health reasons, have been adopted to regulate the electronic exchange of information between the courts and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The human resources issue of Slovenian prisons is also being addressed by providing 25 new jobs. The amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance provides for better protection for socially vulnerable debtors by limiting enforcement to resources that are absolutely necessary for an individual to meet basic life needs. Enforcement under the amount of the minimum net salary is excluded, and enforcement on a veteran supplement is only possible in cases of recovery of priority claims and by banning banks from paying for their enforcement services from social assistance. The amendment of the Penal Code excludes criminality in the issue of classified information in the public interest, thus placing freedom of expression, freedom of operation of the media and the right to know. According to the new report, greater transparency of the business environment is ensured through the opening of the Court Register with relevant data on society and business connections between companies. The Ministry of Justice has reduced payments for the provision of free legal aid and representation under official responsibility by means of the Law on Lawyers. This is the cost of lawyers charging the state budget with savings in the budget for about EUR 4 million per year. In preparation, the adoption of a specific development strategy in the judiciary is under way. With the amendment of the Law on Offences in the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Slovenia will, in the coming period, take a step with other modern European countries, already familiar with the so-called Probation Service, which is responsible for the enforcement of criminal sanctions in the community. Preparation and presentation of an entirely new Criminal Procedure Act, which will bring the abolition of the Investigative Judge's Institute. At the Ministry of Justice, organisational changes will be made in the coming period to ensure a qualitative shift in human rights monitoring. All of this, according to SMC Members, shows the sincere commitment of the Minister of Justice to increase the legal security of Slovenian citizens and to fight corruption, so we are confident of the integrity of the mags. Klementzel. Finally, I regret that it is on the international day against corruption that we must take part in this unfounded demonstration of opposition, aimed at one of the more visible faces of the fight against corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, rather than focusing our efforts on preventing and sanctioning corruption in all the failings of Slovenian society. Ladies and gentlemen, in the SMC Group we will certainly continue these efforts and one of the key personalities of this fight will also be the future Minister of Justice of the Mag. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u17	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u18	Your Honor! Dear Minister, it's good to have you back in the hall. Allow me to begin by congratulating the coalition on the day of the fight against corruption and sincerely thank it for rejecting the request of the signatories that the competent, only competent national authority, i.e. the Anti-Corruption Commission, put in place a procedure for suspicion of corruption and infringement of the integrity of the public sector against mags. Goran Klemenčič, now known as your Minister of Justice. Otherwise, it is virtually clear to everyone that Dr. Mir Cerar’s attitude, which he had announced in his campaign of election with his two-month-old client, utopia and deception was unprecedented. Ethics and they had to dissipate, but there were still acts that could not be placed under the carpet or disguised with beauty their harmfulness. Miro Cerar, also known as the self-proclaimed janitor of the insurrection of Slovenian politics, revealed his true face immediately after the elections. He showed that it was his policy to defend political indisposition and protect the untouchable. Also, the reasons given by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek at the exit from the Modern Centre Party, which should take care of any responsible policy in the leadership position, did not reach Cerar and his team alive. In this way, the fight against corruption, the elimination of the impact of informal networks and the warning of financial crime remain pre-eminent puffs, which have been a useful way of affirming the policy of the Modern Centre Party. Many have already overlooked their academicism; others are on their way. As has already been seen in past elections, this time party alchemism will certainly not take place. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, yesterday's rejection of the decisions to introduce a procedure with the Commission to prevent corruption due to the suspicion of corruption and the violation of the integrity of the public sector against Goran Klemenčič on the Committee on Home Affairs and Public Administration does not surprise us, but as a responsible political party, we are rightly concerned. It raises an important question of what country we live in and how long will citizens bear that regulation applies only to second-class citizens and only to the point of interest of an elite. The confidence of citizens in the institutions of democracy and the rule of law is thus literally disappearing. He is replaced by disappointment and doubt that nothing can be changed in this country, and that is exactly what suits the elites and the various networks to strengthen their power. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we request the convening of this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, or the explanation of the proposal for the necessity of introducing a procedure with the Commission to prevent corruption against mags. Goran Klemenčič was justified in 13 concrete points. It should be pointed out that on the competent committee of mags. Klemenice did not reply to any of the points of the proposed decision in such a way as to dispel these suspicions. Also today's position of the largest coalition party, the modern centre's parties were not rejected at any point. Moreover, we have read a thank-you file on the work of Minister Klemenčič, although we all know what the situation is today in the judiciary. However, it is a coalition by rejecting the conclusion that the Commission will put in place a procedure against magi to prevent corruption. Klemenčič, in fact, confirmed to our excused suspicion of the behaviour of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič, because if he had been informed of irregularities, he would have been really unjustifiable and the result of some political accounting, as he likes to stress, such an introduction of the procedure would have required alone, or the coalition would have unanimously supported our request, solely in the interest of clear suspicions to the competent national authority and the matter would have come to an end. Thus, Mr Klemenčič's suspicion of the corruption and breaches of the integrity of the public sector will remain after today's meeting of the National Assembly and will only be strengthened. The rejection of the decision, however, does not merely represent an unwavering protection of an obviously inviolable official, but rather the rejection of the decision as explained in the 13 concrete points means that such conduct in society is legally and legitimate after a new one. Today's session is not as modern and we do not have the visionary skills that the Government expects of us and the general public. In its opinion, the government stated that, from the ambitious future, I stress that the future priorities of Minister Klemenčič in the field of the Ministry of Justice reflect his commitment to combating corruption and increasing transparency in the public sector. Well, for the current government, it doesn't matter what a mag is. The Clemens of doubt so far, either in the role of the President of the PSC or in the role of the Minister of Justice, but how he intends to act in the future. That's ridiculous. As mentioned earlier, we are clear of acts, violations and abandonment of the duty of magi. Goran Klemenčič rolled into thirteen points. These will also be presented more widely in the debate of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. To make it easier to understand the dimensions and problems of the actions we see in the Magnificent. Klemenčič, and the irresponsible behaviour of the coalition, which rejects the introduction of the power argument procedure, I will continue to point out only a few of them, who, assuming even the former President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, are even more likely to face up to it. Firstly, according to the Court of Auditors, Mag. As President of the Commission to prevent corruption, Goran Klemenčič has been breached by several laws and has abandoned the duty imposed by legislation. Second time, mag. Goran Klemenčič, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, whose important part of the tasks is the legitimate control of the assets of the officials, has not declared the assets or has not entered the business of his spouse on the list of companies to which they are subject under the Act of Restriction. Thirdly, with regard to the conduct of businesses in which the owners were members of the Commission's family to prevent corruption, state-owned companies and state-owned authorities, which is a reasonable doubt about their independence and impartiality. Fourth time, mag. Goran Klemenčič did not take action in the event of new employment with the Commission to prevent corruption on the fact that the media were in advance aware of the specific names of the employees, although several candidates applied for the tender and were therefore not known. Clearly, he agreed with this type of recruitment in such a sensitive ministry. Five, about the Magi's behavior. Goran Klemenčič and the other members of the Commission for the prevention of corruption in relation to the procedure for finding in the case of cheaper air tickets. Last but not least, we could connect this point to one of the previous ones. Sixthly, the facts disclosed at the 13th meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission in the mandate from 2011 to 2014 related to the acquisition of two mortgage loans indicate that the spouse has received a higher loan than the value of the mortgaged property, which is contrary to the practice of the banks, since ordinary citizens of such loans are not receiving and are never able to obtain them. As a last resort, in the report on the supervision of the assets of the Presidents of Parliament's parties, issued on 7 January 2013 by the Commission to prevent corruption, the parties were in the process of violating human rights. The consequences were not only personal but also irreparable, irreparable political and economic consequences for the state of Slovenia. Respected citizens and citizens, fellow Members and Members, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will continue to insist and strengthen our efforts to combat elitism, corruption and the exploitation of the judiciary of the authorities and other state authorities for political purposes. However, once and for all it is necessary to end this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u19	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u20	The Honorable President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that this will be the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in a good year. There have been extraordinary meetings even once more than regular sessions. Given that there is no state of emergency in the country, this relationship certainly does not increase Parliament's reputation and people's confidence in its work. In the eyes of most citizens, most extraordinary meetings have been a waste of time, and if we are honest, this has been the case. If not otherwise, the inflation of extraordinary meetings objectively prevents Members and all those who have to participate in such meetings in order to deal more fully with the essential problems of our country. This requirement for an extraordinary meeting is already one of these. At first glance, almost 40 pages long reveals that it is mainly an attempt at political and personal accounting with the former KPK President, who signed a property report following the procedure, which the KPK notes that the SDS President could not explain the origin of his assets. As is known, this report triggered the fall of the Janša government. It is also known that the SDS has made every effort to defend its President against these suspicions of corruption, and has achieved a repeat of the proceedings at the Supreme Court. However, in the new composition, KPK also reached the same conclusions as Klemenčičeva KPK in the repeated procedure, following instructions from the Supreme Court. This should, at least, be the case for the National Assembly, but for the SDS, this report is obviously so big a thorn in the heel that this time it has decided to defend the good name of its President in the National Assembly in such a way as to stain the good name of the former President of the PKK and the current Minister of Justice. Klemenčič's KPK, by the way, enjoyed a great reputation and confidence in the public. The abuse of the law and the Rules of Procedure also proves that Members of the SDS on the Committee's rejected decision require the KPC to determine whether Goran Klemenčič is still competent to serve as Minister or not. However, it is clear to each of us that the possible replacement of the Minister is not decided by the KPK, but by the President of the Government and us in the National Assembly. This requirement for an emergency meeting therefore has a completely different objective. The alleged alleged infringement of SDS President's rights is only one of the 12 points by which the applicants justify the proposed decision rejected. Among other things, Mr Klemenčič is expected to act corruptly or at least in contravention of the principle of integrity in the rental of an NPU building, in the appointment of the Proporteur's Year as Vice-President of the KPK and in the employment of other people in the KPK. He's a magician to the proponents. Klemenčič is also inappropriate because he did not propose the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court, Branko Masleša, who is also a thorn in the fifth largest opposition parliamentary party. They also resent him because the Commission of Inquiry on Banking Abuses, led by their Member, did not provide the collected material and forwarded it to the prosecution and the police and so on. The materials of the applicants are also based on the Court of Auditors' report, which does indeed identify some irregularities in the business of the KPK, but even the applicants could not pass on the conclusion that these shortcomings have been largely resolved. In short, there is no new evidence in this explanation of the decision that the KPK should initiate procedures for suspected corruption and infringement of the integrity of the public sector and that these suspicions are indeed justified. Therefore, the Members of Desus also did not support such a decision on the working body of the mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President for your word, Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues! This afternoon, we are devoting ourselves to the debate on the work of the Minister of Magi. Goran Klemenčič, especially for a time before the Minister's term of office, was performed by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior and the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Applicants shall submit a request for the initiation of a procedure for suspicions of corruption and infringements of the integrity of the public sector against the minister relating to his work: First, as the President of the KPK, where he is charged with irregularities identified in the Court of Auditors audit report 2014 relating to the period 2009 to 2014. They also see irregularities in employment at the KPK by setting up tendering conditions, which are justified on the basis of media articles and anonymities. They also find it illegal to appoint a member of the KPK Senate. He is further denied an alleged violation of human rights in the process of controlling the property situation of the Presidents of Parliament. The applicants also reject the suspension of the application of property and the entry of the company of its spouse into the list of companies subject to operating restrictions. It is also experiencing several violations of the integrity of the public sector due to the operations of the state of business in which the members of the KPK Senate were members of the family, further due to the lack of participation of the KPK in the work of the National Assembly's investigation committee on abuses in the Slovenian banking system, and the perceived irregularities in the surrender of the President of the Commission to prevent corruption. They also present a violation of integrity and the elements of corruption in the conduct of procedures for cheaper airline tickets of Adria Airways and also point out that there is an irregularity in the registration of the property customer of mags. Goran Klemenčič and evidence of a violation of the principle of integrity when adopting the Commission's Rules of Procedure for the Prevention of Corruption. Secondly, as State Secretary to the Ministry of the Interior; his proposals state that his past conduct relating to the rental of premises for the National Investigation Office is condemned for signs of corruption and infringement of integrity in the public sector, Last but not least, as Minister of Justice, who, according to the motioners, violates the principle of integrity and acts corruptly in his role as Minister, because he does not want to initiate proceedings for the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court. It is therefore a whole series of perceptions that have been qualified by the proponents as violations of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and most of them have qualified to be visible elements of crime in them. It means that it is a very serious finding, which, as a result, also bears the responsibility of the one who claims irregularities, i.e. the applicants of an extraordinary meeting in this case. We therefore believe that the applicants have already initiated appropriate procedures for the police, the prosecution and the Anti-Corruption Commission on their own, and have also submitted all the documentation or relevant evidence for this purpose. Yesterday, the motioners themselves said that in this case, interpretations against the Minister of Magi. Goran Klemenčič will not be launched because the Institute of Interpellation is a political tool that will result in political debate and decision-making. It would be reasonable to conclude from this that the applicants want to have a professional discussion in particular, and therefore, it would be much more appropriate, according to the opinion of the Social Democrats, in this context, to initiate appropriate procedures before the said authorities and not to use the instrument of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In short, the above findings in the material are already well-known stories and the debate by the proponents was not yesterday and will not be new today. Once again, I must point out that the Social Democrats do not claim to be irrelevant; of course, we take all suspicions with all seriousness and responsibility, but in view of all the past developments around the Commission to prevent corruption, the attitude of the applicants to it and the past events associated with Mr Mag. In this regard, we can reasonably conclude that, in this case, it is primarily the abuse of the National Assembly by the proponents who use this space for public accounting with the current Minister of Justice. Probably also because of the personal offense of individual members and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to mags. Goran Klemenčič. Therefore, we do not believe in the well-intention of the applicants for the non-political or professional treatment of these issues, which are on the agenda of this meeting. The applicants simply did not choose a credible path to do so. Therefore, the purpose of today's meeting is probably anything other than an expert debate and a non-political assessment of Mr Mag's past behaviour. Goran Klemenčič in his various roles or functions. We are convinced that it should be in the interest of all of us, that all open dilemmas and issues raised should be cleared up in appropriate procedures and bodies competent and competent to prosecute infringements of the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act if they have occurred. For this purpose, however, there is no need for specific meetings of the working bodies and also for meetings of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u23	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Today, interestingly, on the international day of the fight against corruption, we will re-examine some kind of interpretation against the Minister of Justice. This time, the proposers call for a procedure to be put in place before the Commission to prevent corruption. It is plausible that a party who has advocated the abolition of the Anti-Corruption Commission for several years and does not recognise any authority to do so suggests that the Minister should be subject to a property control procedure. Although the applicants know a great deal about this procedure. Exactly control of the assets of their President is the reason for this time and also all similar mini-interpellations that we have seen in this mandate. In his previous position in the same procedure, the Minister found that the SDS President could not explain the origin of his assets. It is true that this report on the capital situation of the SDS President was then challenged and partially eliminated in all possible ways, but still has not been able to explain it to this day. The fact that some individuals have major difficulties in controlling their own financial transactions stems from the fact that at that time there were as many as two presidents of the largest parliamentary parties who could not explain the origin of their assets. Not for the first or second three years after that, they failed to prove it. One is still an MP and the other is the mayor of the capital. And there are many other cases like this. It is therefore more than necessary to talk about corruption, and not only that, but also appropriate measures must be taken to prevent it. We have not yet received such a proposal on the table. All attempts to undermine the image of the Commission to prevent corruption, all objections to its findings and reports, and finally even disputes within the Senate itself, indicate that it is high time to amend the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Finally, the increase in transparency and the decisive fight against corruption were the essence of the entire pre-election campaign. Following the elections, these promises have become diversified, and measures have not yet been taken by the Government to this day. The problem of corruption and non-transparent must therefore be addressed. It must be removed as soon as possible. However, the precondition for achieving this objective is certainly a change of law. Since it is a statutory law that requires the Commission to issue reports and findings on the corruption of officials and their assets to prevent corruption, the powers of the Commission must be clear and the procedure should not call into question its legality. The current situation is virtually unsustainable, since each Commission finding is the subject of legal proceedings, provisional orders, withdrawals and annulments which are to be carried out for several years. Minister Klemenčič also spoke on the grounds that the amendment of the roof law, under which the commission operates, was necessary while he was chairman of the commission. As Minister of Justice, however, he would like to state on this subject that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. However, we hope that both ministries will do their jobs and prepare, as soon as possible, changes that the anti-corruption procedure will provide the Commission with sufficient precision so that we will not again witness similar calvaries. The same call goes to the applicants – given that you are already selling similar proposals for a virtually full mandate, we could certainly draw up a concrete solution at that time. In addition to the abolition of the anti-corruption commission, of course, which we oppose in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary-General! In my debate, I will focus mainly on the financial part of the operation of the institutions in which the mag was. Klemenčič, today the Minister of Justice. In particular, from all of these reports, which we actually have before us, there is one issue in my opinion and, of course, requires an explanation from Minister Klemenčič. This case relates to the so-called bank hole or its cooperation with the then investigative committee for the supervision of the bank system led by the mag. A cookbook at the time. In fact, from the debate, the magnetograms, and so on, it is clear that the answers were mags. Klemenčič relatively digs on this committee. In fact, he gave this committee to know that it would not tell certain names and certain backgrounds which, I will say, conditioned this banking crisis, which may also be the reason for the banking crisis. I'm also kind of surprised by the fact that there was no paperwork on this at the time. The investigative committee was not provided with documentation and here is the mag. Klemenczyk said at the time that he should not in any way betray those persons who are reporting irregularities in the financial and banking sector. For the protection of the applicants, of course, today may be somewhat different, some other dawn than, in particular, because, after all, Banka Slovenije gave to this commission, the commission of inquiry today I think that 14 thousand sheets, 14 thousand pages of material on how, why and how this bank hole was actually created. Of course, the question is whether then the Commission of Inquiry would have received certain materials and if the Commission of Inquiry had finally obtained certain names of the persons responsible for the bank hole, how different it would have been today and how different it would have been. Of course, I think it would be different and that we would probably know more. However, even given how we are solving this banking crisis today, and not just us, but also, of course, investigative authorities and so on, it is relatively slow. And here, I'm going to say, in a way, and I'd like to hear some more arguments about why it didn't actually happen that the bank hole documentation was then submitted. Finally, the Parliamentary Commission is also committed to certain secrets, including the protection of confidentiality and so on. We are talking about the parliamentary investigative commission on the banking system and the argument that this would automatically violate banking secrecy, of course, I do not think that it is sustainable here. That's certainly why I'd want to do the mags. Klemenice additional argument. Of course, even in the banking sector, more transparency is needed. I don't know, for decades, the banking sector has been wrapped in not one dance, but more shades of secrets, which then continues in this direction also to protect those who are, I'll say, here with a certain purpose or intent to give actually bad credit. I speak with intent or intent and, of course, without proof. And, of course, in this regard, I would like an additional argument from Minister Klemenčič. The second question, which also concerns public finances – since I am also the chairman of the Commission to ensure that public finances are as transparent as possible – I am essentially interested in certain procedures concerning the so-called Supervisor project. I believe that the Supervisor project is a very good project, that it is an effective project, that we have such a project, that we have information about how the public sector pays different companies, different individuals and that these data are public and transparent. However, of course, I am interested in how this project actually came about. Indeed, this was also the case at the time of the KPK when the President of the KPK was on board, and were all procurement procedures carried out at that time, were procedures also carried out with regard to data protection? In fact, if it was an external contractor, then of course this external contractor had to obtain certain data and here it appears as well as the banking secrecy issue that, of course, someone got all this data and of course how, of course, who had access to classified data? I'm sure you can't tell me this, but was it a matter of protection and was the whole procedure transparent? Of course, it was also probably public procurement. After all, the idea itself is interesting, and it is likely that this idea has also come about in a certain way. Well, I would like to answer these two questions about, once again: the role of the KPK in the so-called banking crisis, and of course also the consequences of not all the data and documentation that the KPK had in connection with the banking crisis and in relation to this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u28	Dear Vice President. Speakers, Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, the two things you mentioned were just like that. I didn't mean to intrude on the house order. I was walking around because my back hurts. It is true that I have also drawn one of the two smokes from an electric cigarette in the corner, which is not prohibited under any regulation and which, by the way, if I am allowed to do so, I highly recommend as a way of separating from smoking, as the United Kingdom Health Organization has recently done. Next thing. We had one of those generals for this session yesterday. There were many, many untruths in it, too, and so today, by the way, I think I can say this as a minister, at the time, Vinko spoke to her, and when Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert spoke, I stood there and looked them in the eye, because my old mother told me that people have a bigger problem lying when they look someone in the eye. That didn't help. I understand. It's politics. That's why I'm going to try to contradict certain things here. It is also undeniable – and in doing so I insist and have a legitimate and legal right to comment – that today’s implementation is a disguised interpretation. Why? I was the one who wrote exactly this article in the law, in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which gives the National Assembly the authority to initiate such a procedure. And he was supported by the National Assembly on the proposal of the then Senate to prevent corruption, because it was thought that this could open up big and important topics in the final stage, such as a bank hole, such as other such things. You just took advantage of this, as one of the Members of the post said yesterday, so that you can just do some personal motive show here in front of the cameras and so on, and you haven't mentioned one, one, but one thing that has not been told many times in the past, used and abused and also rejected. Your legitimacy, I can't deny it, and I can't challenge it. But I'm going to remember what they taught me at Harvard, and one of the first things was that one professor said to us, "never in the courtroom ask a question you don't know the answer to, because it can come back and turn you." And that's what's gonna happen to you today. I'll take my turn. And one more thing. Why are we talking about personal elements? I think you should say that. I understand Mr. Tank, the first to sign; he's the father; I'm the father. I understand that he is affected because the anti-corruption commission is indisputable – why am I speaking indisputably? because there was no complaint and because there was no proceedings and the case became legal in this respect - found the illegal employment of children of the SDS head of the SDS delegation and the SDS president in a state-owned company of 100 %. And not that we're not wrong, that's not what the crazy lion Klemenčič's commission with Praprotnik found out, and so on, that's what the work inspection found. I further understand my colleague Gorenak. He too has been the subject of our findings several times. And of course, Mr. Janez Janša needs to be understood about me personally. But now we're going in order. Okay. Look, you have this option, I'm a public official, you can try to discredit me in one way or another. But I'd like to say, and because I'm standing here, not as an expert, but as a kind of politician, I tell you: you know, being in any government, being a minister is sometimes so hard, sometimes you feel like there's a bunch of things you can't do that you want to do and so on. But quite frankly – after yesterday’s session, and to tell you the truth, I got a new success. I've got a new legacy because the policy of lies and discredits, as you allow them, must no longer be granted national rights in this country. And what I will be able to do within the framework of not the political, but the legal options will then do so. Now let's do it in a row. You're reading me the Court of Auditors' audit report. In fact, in 2014 the Court of Auditors published the Report on its review of the business of 14 non-governmental and judicial budgetary users. None of them got a positive report. Five received a negative report, nine received a recommendation with reservations. We can all get on with the ashes, including the KPK. The KPK actually received a negative opinion. Anyone who wants to read on the internet, why this was a negative opinion, apart from those violations to which I will return later, was the majority of the violations that related to the financial consequences arising from my mandate, and I could stand on my head, but the contracts that someone had concluded in front of me and were disputed from the Court of Auditors’ point of view, I could not break. [[…]] But I've reduced its contract value by 50%! And if the Court of Auditors were to review the KPC today or if, five years ago, it should have issued a negative opinion if it were consistent with its findings that that treaty, which was also controversial in my view, was not illegal, but controversial. It was concluded by the CAD, it was concluded for a certain period of time and, where a fixed-term contract is concluded, it is not a classic notice period under the Housing Law, but is subject to the notice of termination laid down in the contract. This Treaty provided that the contract could only be terminated in the event of force majeure. But it doesn't matter, there is also documentation in this regard where the commission, under my direction, asked the Court of Auditors, "Tell us how to solve this, say it." And they didn't answer us. But good, so we got a negative opinion because the decision on whether the Court of Auditors will give a positive opinion, an opinion with reservation or a negative opinion – and no one has to laugh – is a fact, this is the Court’s permanent methodology – depends on how much of the budget in the entire budget of a body is burdened by irregularities. And the fact is that the rent always represented the largest share of the KPK's operating costs, since it was initially totally too large. That's what I've said in public many times. By the way, former Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek wrote that such a lease could not have been made at the time of the Director of the Budget, then to the Commission – and this was not my commission. But I didn't make it. I moved in there and at the moment we found out, of course, we started to reduce rent, and it is undoubtedly, by 50% I wonder which other authority has cut the rent by 50% in three years! [[…]] That's the first thing. Second thing. A large number of other matters covered by the Court of Auditors’ opinion relate to 2009 and 2010. Vinku did, and now I'm going to say, Dr. Gorenak is this, but since I'm being attacked very personally many times, he's speaking very personally about how he knows me, he's going to be for me today, Vinko. [[…]] Vinko is yesterday I mean, I can't tell you Dr. Gorenak, but if you're blogging, you understand how we know each other for how long, but you don't. [[…]] I am, when you were at VPVSH, maybe we went for coffee together twice, and you came to me three times, once as secretary in the Janša government, because you kindly asked me to try to teach you how to defend your position on the deleted in Geneva. No, no, don't wave your hand because that's true. But we can face it, no problem. Like again, never ask questions, Vinko, which you don't know the right answer to, because it can come back to you. Okay, let's move on. Many of these were from 2010 and 2009. You see, there were things in there, such as, say, there were no evaluation papers for an employee that we then made progress with. 2009 He wasn't there. It was here before this speaker said, "The electricity contract that was made" – hey, I didn't make it. But it's true that I didn't immediately realize that it wasn't right, because maybe it was my fault, but when I came to the chair of the KPK, wasn't my first thing to ask, "Hey, is electricity all right with this byte?".. It was only when we asked ourselves, requested an external audit and did it as the only independent body, by the way, 2011 was done, and when most of you, from the SDS to others who were in the previous Parliamentary Assembly, know that there was also a novel of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption on a proposal from the Commission to prevent corruption, where, as the only State authority, it was determined that every three years an external audit should be carried out precisely to ensure the integrity of this body, because we considered that our leadership had not been in the past, and because it was also one such external control factor that you had external control, it was also adopted at the final stage. [[…]] If we peel this onion again, I do not run from responsibility for those violations that occurred in my mandate, I do not run from responsibility. These violations were such that they would probably require, I don't know, an assessment of the opinion with reservation, but should be given in context. He's in there, say, yesterday you said, I'm running away from it, I'm not commenting, I'm going to comment. I know that some of you who are reasonable and so on, including Mr Širtzlev, know this – there are many violations in the acquisition of real estate related to the fact that the Commission did not have an annual work plan on the availability of movable and immovable property. We admitted it, I didn't know it was necessary to have something like this, because the commission never had it, in ten years it didn't exist. Yeah, that could be my objective responsibility. But once again, we're talking about 2011 when I was in this position for two months. Second thing. The cleaning service, which had a legal and formal contract for cleaning our premises, was ordered by the Secretary-General to clear windows that were not included in the basic contract. And later, the Court of Auditors found that we should have one special Yes, look, there's nothing, I can resign, but it was 620 Euros or something like that. [[…]] I could, I don't know, fire the secretary general. These are the things that are happening, even in the body that we've just set up. 17,000 euros because we're supposed to be getting new chairs and so on, as Vinko said before -- it wasn't about that. It was a matter of redesigning the premises within the Commission, which was because they were very uneconomically set up. This money, by the way, was exclusively for the money we saved by reducing the rent, and for this reduction in the rent I personally negotiated with the Jamnik at the time, who was chief of Kad. [[…]] We have done everything in accordance with public procurement to select the lowest bidder; one I know was from the White Country. That's what I've been told, because it's not what the president is running, it's what's working. But I said, "find away the cheapest." The contract was signed. After they started to tear down some of the walls there, they found that we should put on a different floor, but I don't know what else, and there was obviously some mistake, but there was absolutely no damage to the state budget. I'm talking about things like that. What Mr Jože Tanko has pointed out repeatedly, how many laws we have broken, is read very badly. I would really have a problem with this if I didn't send the content; I violated or the commission, and I, according to it, violated the constitutional rights to equal access to work, the Labour Relations Act, the Civil Servants Act and so on. Whoever took five minutes and looked at what this finding of the Court of Auditors was based on, which was a violation, but once again a completely ordinary administrative breach We published a city for IT and professional services they wrote that we are publishing a city for computer science with university education. [[…]] The Court of Auditors was of the opinion that there should be a comma and should be written "informatics of a social or natural nature." They didn't do it, I mean, I didn't do it, you know. But all right, I'm assuming objective responsibility, and then some computer scientist wasn't collected. I'm talking about things like that. In short, when we draw the line — you know, it sounded really good. In particular, Mr Tanko has repeatedly addressed my boss, Prime Minister Mir Cerar Cerar, here in at least four sessions, how can you live, according to your household, with someone who has violated so many and so many laws? Now, let me tell you something. Those are the facts. I asked or we looked at the generality of Aya, that. [[…]] So it's just a fact, they're not rumors. In its report, the Court of Auditors did not find one case in which a direct premeditated or gross misdemeanour of a regulation would be involved. On this basis, one or one measure of accountability has not been implemented or proposed and I therefore take as an insult, manipulation and pure politicisation what you do when you talk about corruption in these cases! That's the first thing. And that's what every citizen can look at on the Court of Auditors' website. But let's not stick to it, because the Court of Auditors often does, but I will say this now: I wonder how you can still assess that you can sit in these rows given that you feel that you have to step down and so forth for every violation by the Court of Auditors. Here I have an overview of the Court of Auditors' reports, which were linked to the two Yanša government, to one-year and four-year reports, and we are on our way. I am speaking for a mandate that lasted from 2014 to 2008. At that time, the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation 12 to the Ministry of Finance, Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Defence, Justice, Economy, Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Environment and Space, Work and Family, Social Affairs, Health. I'm not going too far, but I can come back later. In your short term 2012-2013, which is also short for me – and I will not say that I am not a bit proud of it – has issued an opinion with reservation for all ministries. A reservation or a negative opinion, however, I said why it gave a negative opinion in my case – for things that were ahead of me, but look, this is a fact, and it is possible that until this Janša government was in both mandates, one of which lasted only one year if we use the same methodology as with the KPK and the Court of Auditors alone, it violated 86 laws, 62 sub-laws and one collective agreement! [[…]] This is the case with regard to the Court of Auditors, and some 19 laws have been repealed from your short term in terms of human rights violations and one regulation or two regulations on the availability of state property. So much for point one. 2nd point, indications of rental of premises of the National Investigation Office. I understand all the trauma and so on, so I'll say, at the NPU I'm proud. [[…]] I was one of his creative co-creators and performers. At that time, it fell on us from all sides, not only on the side of the opposition, but also on the side of the position. Whether he became exactly what we had in mind, I don't know. But the fact is that we are all taking it as an important step forward today. The fact is, I was Secretary of State at the time. The fact is that I was the head of the project council and that I was the auditor of the working groups that carried out the various elements of the NPU. The fact is also that the NPU was identified in one part, and only in the part concerning the rental of the building was it known as problematic by three authorities: the KPK, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Justice with the final judgment last week or 14 days ago. It is also true that in neither of these three procedures was I even indirectly identified as a possible suspect or mentioned as one who participated in this part. Yesterday, of course, Mr Gorenak pointed out only a couple, he said, "see, because Klemenčič even Scholtes participated in this project world." In this project world is still, it is written, Barbara Brezigar; if she did not participate, I do not know, I will not remember back, but you went to call her immediately because it is also, by the way, interesting. The MP calls the state's attorney without a hitch, but we know how it is. I mean, so much for each other's independence. That's the way it is. You know. There's something very simple about that. The final report I received as an auditor of this group was this thick. I have been dealing with legal issues, organisational issues, convincing Res to back this up, with various television encounters by Mr Gorenak, who has been paddling into the sky, that this is a bad arrangement, that it will break what, systems and so on. Gorenak will come out with some kind of statement and he'll say, "Vinko will come up with some kind of statement, and he'll say, "Look, I supported it once." Yes, but many times I even remember one encounter when Rosvita Sandek put us both down on the Reflections when we started arguing about whether the NPU was needed or not. [[…]] But the fact is that you didn't believe this project, because you weren't able to build it yourself for four years before, but you had a government, and because you resented that it was Kresal's or one Borut Pahor's government. Look, we understand, but today's NPU's "car." It was also in between when you changed the law and then appointed the director of someone who killed himself six months later with a car and had to resign as director of the NPU. That's facts, that's not an insult. That's right. Okay, so if we break this onion, three institutions have spoken about the NPU. Yes, in the case of the NPU, the purchase of the building was also irregular in my opinion, so I also resigned as Secretary of State, and said so; you will now say, "you have never made a clear statement". As Secretary of State, I was the one who signed the proposal for the NPU to verify the KPK. And I resent you: for one is, you know, one is when we are there at the border, and so on; but another is when you lie in a fris when you know. And here about the NPU not only is my conscience clear; I was one of the most angry that the NPU was burdened with this corruption affair, because one year later he had to deal with it instead of having to do much better for the first year. Since everything else worked well and was probably the only project in this country that was then supported by the left and right at the final stage and where they agreed with it, I mean all supervisory institutions. But we didn't, because that's true, because you know, when Vinko was Minister of the Interior, he was then the perpetrator of his duty to Robert Črepinek, who is now a senior official in Europol – the head of the organised criminal association sector – and he said that this would not work, but that he has no chance of becoming director because he drives too far to the left; in spite of more witnesses he said so and it can be verified. [[…]] So much for the NPU. Employment on the Commission to prevent corruption in my mandate. I can stand here 20 times on my head, it's really next. We have published certain invitations, for this we have had extremely rigorous written and all living conditions. Two anonymous guys showed up. On the basis of these anonymities, one newspaper wrote something and look at it, look, we immediately received a work inspection. I don't mind. But we were given a working inspection when the Anti-Corruption Commission, as we call it, worked for Mr Brezovar, the Chief Labour Inspector, when we called him to resign or the Minister to resign and he was also then dismissed – and, by the way, he also lost all complaints against the Commission and me personally in this regard after the long lawsuits last week. But the thing is, for the first time in the history of the commission, two inspectors came in and believed that they were looking for hair in the egg; they turned everything that was possible and they couldn't find anything at the end. On the contrary, they acknowledged in the minutes that we had overly demanding and objective calls compared to the public sector. The Court of Auditors found nothing later in these calls. Mr Gorenak said yesterday on the committee that what he had hired was a fine that my colleague, the Secretary of State, the current and then Head of the Service of Control and Investigation at the KPK, had surrounded you and so on and that nothing had ever been found. Mr Gorenak, I just announced this yesterday, I will read it to you today, because this is how we were "politically biased". Indeed, in two cases, the Commission responded to your employment. One was the appointment or appointment of Secretary of State Robert Marolt, who had been Secretary of State since Minister Šturm's time, and then he was a little appointed Attorney of State, where in fact in three years I think he had a total of 14 working days, he remained in hospital. As soon as you won the election, he regained his health and went to your office as Secretary of State. And then you made a contract that gave him a chance to come back. This contract was absolutely illegal and corrupt, that's what we warned you about. We didn't go, you see, but we didn't go to the media with this, but we wrote to you and you immediately confessed and you said, "Look, we agree," and you solved it. And the other thing was the job in your cabinet of a young boy, but a handsome young boy who was a student of yours, was doing a master's degree and so on. You hired him in the cabinet and then, whatever the case, here I have a record of inspection, in one year – what would happen if you were in power for 4 years – in one year, you were accepted for one person, for one person, at the time when the ZUJF applied, yes, five annexes, five annexes of employment for the purpose that in the end a person could be employed as this is information of a public nature, by the way, the number is 0611 – if someone is watching us or when a journalist will be watching us –/125/2014/8 and the Inspectorate of the Public Sector is described on several pages as irregularities. [[…]] [[…]] Yeah, so much for jobs. As for the illegal appointment of the Hand of the Procurator as a member of the Senate, it is I who know that you are going to the Apostle on your nerves, you will not believe it, even to me he sometimes went on his nerves, and I probably went to him because we had to work together, but we did well together, but he was not appointed by me and I had nothing to do with his appointment. [[…]] It shall be appointed by the President of the Republic after the agreement of one broad section. That's why I wouldn't talk about it. After that, as regards the alleged violation of human rights in the process of controlling the property status of the party presidents. There's been a lot of talk about that. I say again, I mean, I really don't know what else to add here. The only thing I can't help is that if you think we were doing this on purpose, then it's also on purpose that the four Chambers of the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court thought they would cover us, and only one Senate of the Supreme Court said, "No, but now we're going to confess." And speaking of which, just as it is in the interest of honesty; you have been in the last few months, when candidates for judges of the European Court of Human Rights were elected, say, after one of these candidates spitting at crucifixes or yours, we will say, your client papers, Democracy. Nina Betetto [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, democracy is a party paper. [[advertising from the hall]] Isn't it? [[advertising from the hall]] I'll tell you why I think so. Thank you. Again, don't ask questions you don't know the answer to. Nina Bettto, who you so spit at, was the president of the Senate, who annulled the KPK report in Janš's case. So, hell, that's not how red it is, is it? But it didn't matter because it was important for other reasons. Look, for democracy, I really thought it was because I think it was mostly created by this, and because I was when I was working on KPK because I was [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait, because you asked a question, I have to say it. Because, while I was working on the KPK, we sent a special report to the Ministry of Culture – this is public information again – on the fact that democracy pays the brother Janez Janša, Rajk Janša, disproportionately large part of the fees because he was supposed to write very much for democracy, and this disturbed us because democracy was receiving public funding. And we said, "Okay, what does it say?".. And then we got from the tax administration that Rajko Janša said, "I don't know, I don't write anything," but the bills were for the author's contributions. Where's the rest of it, I don't know. But the fact is – well, who would say that money is laundering through it, I couldn't say that – that Rajko Janša of Democracy regularly received large funds and that as a commission in public, this is not a matter of secret information, was warned by the Ministry of Culture because it was a great donor of funds. I mean, Slovenia is an interesting country, on the one hand and on the other, certainly. Then it bothers you very much that I did not propose the discharge of Branko Masleš. [[advertising from the hall]] You're very upset that I didn't propose discharge of Branko Masleš because he was a member of the Senate. Once again, look, I don't know how long I'm going to be a minister, but I'm going to take this kind of meeting for as long as I can, really -- I'm not going to be a minister who, because of some political or non-political fores that someone wants or doesn't want, is going to propose the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court. This is the manner of revolutionary law that I do not swear to, because I do not agree to this cultural fight, I was not born in it, and unlike many of you here sitting in the hall, even in the Communist Party I have never been, let alone a militiaman or anything else, because I was too young for this. And I won't agree to that as Justice Minister. And when you say [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Vinko, of course. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u29	Yes, please, just [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u30	Thank you. I know. Do I have to be a little less personal or something? You know, I'm personal because they're very personal, because otherwise I'd like to be very private, but I think I'm gonna have to be somewhere else personal. But good. And there were no legal conditions for that. No legal conditions were provided. Branko Maslesha didn't sit in his room one night and say, "Look, I'm not getting out of this because I want to do with Janša I don't know what..." No, for this there are procedures, there has been a general meeting of the Supreme Court containing 30 plus judges, and according to my information, I think three or four have voted against and others have voted against not to be expelled. Do I agree with that? [[advertising from the hall]] Do I agree with that? You know, I get it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, I don't support that! What, are we even gonna replace the Supreme Court?Oh, my God! [[advertising from the hall]] Uh, here we are again in the revolution, right? Next thing. For a short while, even though she's disgusting to me, because you're lying because you're dragging my family into this. Intermediaus is my wife's company. My wife was a minority associate at a firm as a lawyer, who was also a lobbyist firm. The moment I became president of the KPK – because sometimes we are mad at home, we try to be more papal than the pope – we said, "Look, this has to be stopped". And she got out of this firm. It took three months to formalize, that's all available in Ipes. In the meantime, I reported this company and it was recorded, and then I erased it, and I reported it being erased because it was gone. You're citing inside that it wasn't on some website that wasn't created until six months later. That's the first thing. Immobilia Plus, it's another company, for the company that it is, and I know, we'll hear about it. [[…]] Objectively, I didn't report anything. Here, you can believe I didn't know about this or not. It was about the company. You know, now think about it, you're here; I didn't laugh like that when your party president couldn't explain the 20,000 euros he paid, which were proven to be cash for the car, and he couldn't tell where he had them. But you laugh; Anja Žibert Bah, for those who are not, laughs. [[…]] It was a company that, as the wife publicly explained – and what was most unfortunate to drag all of this in – she set up because she thought of another law firm to buy some business space. In one week, it fell apart, if we don't go into it, and then they didn't wipe it out right away. It was a purely technical operational thing. She didn't tell me either because we're both fucking busy at the top of our heads. This company didn't issue one bill, it wasn't a straw company like you suggested yesterday. It's a shame you said that because straw companies have, you know, no, this company didn't have a euro of income, expenditure or anything. [[...]] Everyone forgot about it and was suspended after a rapid procedure after the democracy — as the SDS put it — began to write about it again. Next thing. It's sad, but it's really sad, and here I'm saying, it's how you took advantage of my wife's use of my position to do business with state-owned companies. And in the proposal you write long and wide about the statements of the Koper Mayor Popovic. Now, a few facts. Popovič stood before the press 14 days before he had to be heard by the Anti-Corruption Commission and said, "Nina Zidar Klemenčič tried to bribe me". And he filed a criminal complaint, and that was enough for you to write something like that. What's the follow-up? The State's Attorney's office dropped the charges because they didn't find a reasonable suspicion. Popovich hired a lawyer, and as a subsidiary prosecutor, they filed a request for an investigation. The investigative judge disagreed with this, and it went to an out-of-controversy Senate — three judges, rejected. Popovič complained, a higher court, two months ago legally concluded. Legally concluded. Nothing was true, not only that, although many of our nerves were consumed and Popovic succeeded in getting me out of that hearing. However, what has not yet been concluded and what has been described I think is being dealt with just next week, but the indictment against Popovic, which my wife filed, is because of a false accusation against Popovic. 9th point, infringement of the integrity of the public sector signs of corruption in non-cooperation with the investigative commission and detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system. I'm going to be brief, I think he will be, and especially because I respect him, I'm going to give Mr Shirtz a concrete answer. [[…]] One thing. Anyway, today we're all talking and talking about how banks are the biggest evil, bank holes left, right. In 2010, no one spoke about this; the KPK was the first to talk about it and to report on it. These were the days when some of your MPs, like Marko Pogačnik, sat in the Court and Kad, and they set up all these boys. These were the days when, as journalists later revealed, President Janša made an e-mail deal with the President of the NKBM administration – but to understand each other, but now I am telling you because you are here. The Anti-Corruption Commission has issued more than 10 complaints in connection with this. Her powers have been extremely limited, and we have repeatedly, through the public, warned to this extent, as I said yesterday, that – bizarrely, truly bizarre – as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, of course, before we issued the property report, I was called by then by President Janez Janš, who praised our work. If I have to, I will be more, yes, because this is documented, I will be more specific. And I'm sorry, Vinko, he wasn't very nice to you and to your work at the moment – what you're doing in this area at that moment. But anyway, that's how it was. Now – the committee on which I was invited, for we were the first, the KPK was the first to give the monitoring committee documentation. No one had to be sued, no one had to be demanded as it is now. [[…]] As you know, we gave up the paperwork. But we gave her the paperwork we believed we could give her. The Commission has demanded things that we should not give after we have waived them to the prosecution. I am deeply convinced of this, and I believe it. I said what I could say at this hearing, and I honestly thought it was a bit bizarre, because since we had worked for three years before, the board had a direct fight with the governor of the bank, and so on, there was no one anywhere. But when it became political likeness, you called the boards, and everyone would be looking into something, etc. The KPK also proposed an amendment to the Public Information Act and the SDH Act so that the advisory and legal contracts could be made public and also be made public. And today it is still in the Constitutional Court. Adria Airways; no, it's been said a lot, I believe it will, but I can't get past what was on the board yesterday. Yesterday, Vinko said, "You criticized Jansho for 6 euros because he didn't know when to pay." We didn't. Mr. Vinko, here's the video. The president of the National Assembly asked me not to let him go because it would be a precedent, even though I don't know what kind of precedent it would not be. Because it's on YouTube because the whole of Slovenia had the opportunity to hear Janez Janša's hearing. We didn't care when he paid for it. But in this video, once again: Youtube, JJ, KPK, boom – 20,000 euros, 23,000 euro cash positions for the car, didn't know anything about it, etc. So don't manipulate us by asking if he paid the internet for 6 euros in 2003. I doubt that the Internet had 2003 because there was no optical network at the time. So from this point of view, he was yours. [[...]] And the last thing I believe is that she will occupy a lot of places today, even by a colleague who was very active yesterday, Anja Bah Žibert, and partly by Gorenak. Credit. Let's be very clear, it's a loan that I didn't rent, but it was hired by my wife in 2007, when neither of us had any public functions. So you can face it, you have no legal rights, but of course you have the political right to discuss it. That's the first thing. Second thing. All the information on this loan was provided by me to the MVK. Jani Möderndorfer – a Member who said nicely yesterday what I think is very true that we sometimes agree, but sometimes we do not agree, – said because he was a member of that that you did not find anything wrong in this regard, although you went there – from you, Mr Tanko, to you, Mr Gorenak, to your current vice-president of the party who tweeted in the middle of this. Tweets are about what was in the closed session. To the fact that your member of Ramshakov's parliamentary office wrote to the banks, "send to Klemenčič a statement of traffic"; hey, the police can't get it, but the SDS felt justified! And I brought you this myself. And I brought you, even though I shouldn't have to, my wife's credit agreements, but I wouldn't have to, not by law or by any means, because I wanted to be about transparent. Once again, 2007, we got a loan, and my wife got a loan. The credit was bigger than that house we were buying back then, but it was one twin. He was insured with a mortgage and was insured with an added guarantee, so he could have been bigger. And you know what I found out today? Amazingly, the SDS is the same year – this is to die, I apologize – got a loan with a significantly better interest rate; but I don't know what properties you have to protect it with a mortgage? It is true, however, that Mr Janez Janša made a guarantee for him – that is, he forgot to report the KPK, which we later found – for half a million. Congratulations. Anyway, cheaper measure Now I'm going to go sprintat, I have here mail, documents; you received the same year credit as a customer, not as someone who bought a byte, a byte, which is a classic Slovenian, twin, Christus! [[…]] And you know what else is the biggest joke? I know you don't like me, but in your ranks there was still one very fine gentleman who was from my environment, there around Lukovica, an MP who knew how we were doing that house, who was embarrassed to sit on the MVK, because he knew because there we all knew who knew that we were putting these things together with the photographer, because it wasn't the Cyprus tie that you were talking about and so on, anyway. This is a loan which has been regularly repaid, which has been accepted under normal conditions. And because you said yesterday how we got it and so on – the wife really tried and found all the offers. We sent, she sent more questions around. She received, among other things, an e-mail, from the NKBM, from the Ljubljana office, where they said, "We can offer you this, we have a special proposal if you transfer the business to our bank." My wife owns a company that has over 10 employees. And now, before Anja Bah falls out of her chair again, I'm going to say that, look, it was a physical loan because lawyers are natural persons because it doesn't matter in the final phase, you know, because you're responding with all your assets, and they just said, "if you take it, you'll get credit." The credit may be greater than the real estate value if you provide further guarantees. And I made a guarantee after that. I don't know if it's wise or not that I spent most of my time; I'll just be able to go home sooner after you talk. Somewhere I may have been rude, I apologize, but as a lawyer, I also inform you that he does not protect me as Minister of Immunity. I'm happy to accept a lawsuit because I'm sure you'll get it someday, and that's it. There's something else I'd like to say in the end. One more time, and why am I fighting for it now? Because I've been looking you in the eye ever since we made a fortune for Janez Janša and for Zoran Jankovic at least ten times. And you repeat one and the same thing, you know, against me, against my family. Because I watched my children come to the mailbox too quickly, and they picked up threatening letters that were written by your supporters, maybe not yours, no, not swing with my hand, and I never hung that on the big bell. [[…]] And because you still have a problem with that today. [[advertising from the hall]] That's all I'm saying, one and the same. Put me on interpolation so I can publish all this. Tell me what you have to say. But yes, I had three things on the agenda today: the final meeting for the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure with Prosecutors, Judges and My Professional Fellows, yesterday I had a meeting to amend the law on personal bankruptcy, today in Portorož there is a meeting on good practices in the judiciary. I'm honored to be here with you today instead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u31	Mr. Tanko, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. After this rather confused performance by the Minister, when everything was flying left, right, past the agenda items and past the content under discussion, it is likely that the Minister's back is not only painful, but there are other pains. It's a much worse nature. Given that you have not intervened, Mr Vice-President; we have presented the material for the debate on this item of the agenda, it is all written, decidedly written, with documents supported, both by the Court of Auditors and by the documents in the archive of the National Assembly. But in the government's opinion, you haven't denied any of these 13 points, not one sentence. The Minister has now allowed himself a very broad debate to the left – right – up – down about persons who are neither the subject of discussion nor anything. I'm one of those people. Mr Vice-President, I propose that you address to the Minister the following question: given that today's debate was also the subject of my son's illegal employment, given that you obviously, because this was illegal, carried out a forensic investigation, I ask you why you did not initiate any proceedings against my son or against me, nor on the PKK, when you were the President of the Senate, without in any way incriminating me under the Criminal Procedure Act, why? But you did a forensic investigation, you did an elaboratory that you put on the website and you didn't launch against me in those three years when you found out absolutely no procedure – you didn't report the assets or my activities related to this case, or you probably found me nowhere in this story anywhere near, anywhere. So slander people left and right, children and parents and so on, without triggering anything under the Anti-Corruption Act, if you read it to me, but you read the crime service or illegal employment, not under the Criminal Procedure Act, then I ask you for your credibility. The law, since you are an official, imposes the following Article 145: "All public authorities and organisations with public powers are obliged to declare offences for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility, if they are informed or otherwise committed by the latter." You discovered them and did nothing. Mr Vice-President, I propose that the current Minister, former President of the KPK Senate, first answer this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. He first appeared as a proposaler for Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u34	Procedurally has the advantage, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u35	Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally, please, I've overlooked, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u36	Madam President, yesterday on the committee, we have made it very clear that we have a problem because we do not really know what to do with this point today. We don't know because it's actually a covert interpretation, but you know, and we're used to it whenever it's an interpolation, it opens up a field of everything, because it's actually an attack by a minister, any one that's marked by one, other, third and fourth, and it's a chance to defend itself back. We found out on the committee yesterday that this is actually a covert act, and that's why I'm wondering today how you, as vice president of the National Assembly, are going to run this session right now because you're running it? Because, as obvious, I will tell my colleague Tanko to the Minister that he wants some answers, knowing that he has only 17 minutes at his disposal as a representative of the Government, not as an interpreter, of course, a problem. And we will not work here any priority; we have order here, rules and rules and know when and how to engage, and let us stop making fools of ourselves here! And secondly, they have to put in an interpolation, and they'll have procedural rules as much as they want. A little respect for the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u37	And what is the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u38	You must answer the question of how you will lead the process, I have made that very clear to you, Vice-President. you have a problem because you have a secret interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u39	I don't have a problem, I wanted to give my word if it wasn't procedural, Dr. Vinku Gorenak, because he raised his hand during the debate and, of course, he has all the right and that's why I didn't answer to Mr Tank. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. See, this point is inserted in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. If it had not been submitted accordingly, the President of the National Assembly should probably have rejected it and sent it to supplement. So it's perfectly clear. Those who adopted such a law – we were not among them because we were against them – but you arranged it and the minister himself said that he was the proponent of this solution. So this thing has to be solved. The second thing, Mr Vice-President, is that, obviously, these slanders of the Minister will also burden this debate today, and I want you to ask him why, in those three years when the chairman of the anti-corruption committee was on board, when I and my son have been exposed to illegal employment, to answer why he did not initiate any proceedings as President of the KPK Senate, which should have done so on official duty, and proved my corruption, my corruption? Or according to the Criminal Procedure Act, so it could just be triggered on the other side. Why didn't he do that, why am I now a 15-year-old Member, and I haven't been heard once in the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption? Why? If they're making it public here, it's illegal employment. Tell me, Mr Minister – you should have reacted long ago and the fact that you have not done so simply shows that you have not done your job as President of the Senate, not under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and not under the Criminal Procedure Act. The one who was the chairman of the KPK Senate and found this was acting as a common rustler, not as chairman of the KPK Senate. You didn't trigger anything, you just left the slanders in the air. I'm willing to go anywhere if you're going to charge me or if you're going to call me on your committee. But you did, obviously, because you know this, a forensic investigation, and you haven't initiated any proceedings against my son or against me. It's a shame, though, that a high-ranking civil servant is affording himself this kind of crap, and he doesn't have anything to say to start a procedure or hear me out. He doesn't, because he doesn't have a document, except for slander. And that's why I want an answer to these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Of course I have to say the following. I did not answer Mr Jani Möderndorfer to that other part of him because it is simply clear that the point was tabled or the material was tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I did not ask this as a question and therefore, of course, I do not see any possibility or I do not see any need for a reaction. Second. What the Minister will answer, of course, is his word, he answers, he is the subject of a proposal for a decision and, of course, we continue to discuss, or Dr Vinko Gorenak has Mrs Slug, sorry, yes, indeed, forgive her, sir. [[…]] Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u42	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry to have to warn your colleague Tank. All his interlocutors with procedural are of a substantive nature. The fact that he has some ministers to ask that he wants certain answers from the Minister is part of the debate and these are not procedural questions and I ask you kindly not to allow them in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u43	Mrs Slug, I don't know what anyone will say when he raises his hand, and that is why, of course, I finally say what I think, and I think I've made myself very clear. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u44	Procedurally, yes. The President, I understand Mr Klemenčič's vivid debate. Even in allowing himself to say that I had told many lies in my statement. Then I'll throw that away in the debate myself. But I won't allow it, and I'm asking you to apologize for publicly saying that I flew out of my chair. For if now I am a little graphic, then my child is probably in grave trouble at home, for which you find strangely very, very bad today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u45	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, just one word. You're also talking about confusion, Mr. Tanko. In his introduction, Mr Gorenak had a six-minute sermon, which had nothing to do with the agenda of the draft decision – and no one then intervened. So now I only allow Mr Han procedurally, and then we move on. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure allow us to work through this book in this national assembly. In these two hours, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has come to my attention too much on personal matters. I'm talking from all sides. I think, even though Mr Klemenčič has suffered attacks for a year now, Mr Klemenčič, as Minister, should not allow such a discourse in this National Assembly. But we're all bloody under the skin, and we're all emotional people. I understand the same thing about Jozeta Tank when he's talking about children's jobs. It's too serious, and we need to cool our heads. Sub-President, paragraph 73 allows you to interrupt the session in half an hour, because if you don't cancel the session in half an hour to cool things down, we'll probably start fighting in this room after three hours. Because these discussions really don't go anywhere anymore. I understand all sides, but I think this moment has gone beyond all normal boundaries. We must be aware that we are still Members and Members of the National Assembly, and in some ways we are representatives of the people, and we have all gone down, with the Minister worth it, and also with the proponents. I also know that I may not be helping with this procedural proposal, but I still believe that paragraph 73 allows you to settle the matter. The coach also takes five minutes off when the ball is flying uncontrollably on the field. So I'm going to suggest paragraph 73 in one 15 minutes to calm down, drink a glass of water, and move on. Because we're gonna have to work tomorrow, all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u47	I give the floor to Dr. Vink Gorenak, the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Vice President of the National Assembly, I need to give you a few words. I didn't have a sermon in the introduction. First, because I'm not a theologian, I'm not a priest, secondly because I spoke exclusively and only about yesterday's session. I have another request for you and one more proposal. Given the fact that I'm here for this table before we start this session, I'm forced to ask you for protective equipment. Please, if, until the next meeting of the National Assembly on agenda items, when the Justice Minister enters this Chamber, I get a helmet and a bulletproof vest. I know you don't know what this is about. I'll explain later. I won't be giving you any more reasons for this. But I mean it. It would also be good for you to get it according to what Möderndorfer is doing. Let's go to the dark. I'll say so, Minister Mag. Clementine, you're 15 years younger than me, here somewhere, well, for me, you'll always be you. But I leave it to you, especially your inner culture, as you will call me. So, you, Mr. Mag. Klementzel. In his introduction, the president of the National Assembly spoke of those cigarettes, and so spoke the mag. Klemnice, so I'm gonna ask if I get tomato salad and one steak, and it's gonna be okay, you're probably not gonna remove me from the National Assembly. Let's get to the bottom of this. Mag. Klemenčič said that I was repeatedly, he pointed out several times, the subject of the KPK investigation. He never once invited me there, never once was I there, never received any written notice. I'd like to know what those investigations were. By the way, he said it more than once. Something similar to Mr. Tank's. I don't know what it was, I don't know anything. Come in. Mag. Klemenčič spoke of the problem of the Court of Auditors and all that is described there as Mr Kos's problem and that he has cured matters. That's not true. 34 000 euros, 16 and 17, out there, 34 000 euros are directly read by the Court of Auditors to you, Mr Klemenčič. You signed those contracts, not anyone in front of you. You were talking about no one giving you illegal employment and no proceedings against you. Of course not, because they're not crimes. However, there are corrupt practices to be assessed by the KPK. Come in. You reminded me we talked in Geneva. I did run a delegation of Slovenia in Geneva in 2004. And I'm probably allowing the possibility that I've consulted you, too, given that you've had a lot of international experience. I also consulted you in 1998 when we wrote the Police Act, the first marriage. Because you've been abroad and you've been dealing with it, and I'm not sorry about that. I don't see anything wrong with that. You're talking about my blog, about my blog writing; I don't write any blogs, not my last name, not my name. But I do have my own website. I write there – and you are often a guest, even today – with a name, surname and verifiable facts. If you think something's wrong, you're suing me for not writing as an MP, but as Vinko Gorenak. You listed to whom the Court of Auditors gave an opinion with reservation in the period 2004-2008, and you listed the ministries and then in 2012 you told all the ministries. Yeah, that's nice. But you have received a negative opinion that Janez Janša did not receive in any ministry, and you have received a negative opinion. You listed it, is the government of Janez Janša or that the ministries broke 86 laws. That's great. All ministries together in one and a half, 86 laws. But you, in your mandate, violated one of the 15 laws. Now if we multiply the number of ministries, the number of employees, the government of Janez Janša would be the same to you if she broke 27,000 laws. But there's only 86 of them, and you're 15 in person. NPU – you were not in court. Mag. Clemens, you weren't in court because you probably weren't a suspect in a crime. But to me, you are suspected of corruption, which must be assessed by the KPK. This is the second time I've asked you what I've done to you. You said I was the one who was limping in 2009, using the term, against the NPU. For the second time I ask you, give a magnetogram, give a video, ask RTV to do this or POP TV where we were. And you'll find you've been lying. I have never been, and I stress this once again, never against the establishment of an NPU. However, I opposed the legal placement of the NPU in the subordinate position of the Minister of the Interior past the Director-General of the Police, which in 2013 I corrected as Minister by law. So don't say I wasn't against the NPU. But you said that once from this bench, and now bring the evidence. I always have evidence. You can look at me, I've looked at you, it'll be easier, you know, it's a lie, you understand. This is what you, Chairman, have allowed: the director of the NPU has been drunk, and his name is me. It's a lie. The director of the NPU must have gotten drunk, but I didn't name him. He is appointed by the Director-General of Police under Article 49, not me – what do I have to do with this? So, if Franc Novak from the Upper Snake Bottom got drunk, is that your fault as a justice minister? You're not. If Janez of Nova Gorica committed murder, is it your fault as Secretary? You're not. You said that I am Mr Črepinek – again this is not a matter of debate, Mr Vice President, look at what he said, and this is not the subject of this agenda item, but I must answer – that I told Mr Črepinek that he would not be the director. You lied! Bring the witnesses, bring them, bring the documents, etc. I couldn't even make that decision because I wasn't even legally competent. Now, look ahead. I'll wait for you to make a deal, because now it's your personal concern. The appointment of Mr Marolta; you issued a document in which you said that Mr Marolt should not return to the post of Advocate. Mrs Murglov, look at her there, she's not there, but she's going back to being a judge. The prosecutor may also return to the position of prosecutor. The Law on Defence does not have this provision – by the way, you can correct it now, because you are the Justice Minister to be uniform in all these judicial bodies – so we have taken your warning into account and, of course, changed Mr Marolt's decision; the Government, not me, that we are clear, you are the obvious one that has been intended for me, but the Government has been there and the Government has corrected this document. Yesterday, you read me eight annexes for one person in my office. It's an assistant at the university. Well, you've already listed five annexes today. But if we go into reality, you'll find four. But you came in from 8 to 5, and then I don't know why it was 8 yesterday, and today it's 5. [[...]] You probably have them there. I think you copied, okay, fine, if you have them, it's illegal, but I won't sue you for that, because if Mr. Old gave them to you, yes, fine, I won't sue you for it, but you have them illegally. But let's do it in order. One document relates to the arrival in the cabinet from the police station. The second document relates to the salary increase — he does not listen, no — related to the salary increase because he did a master’s degree. The third document refers to the transition to the CAP and the fourth to a reduction in wages from the 41st to the 29th grade. But the interesting thing is, I've been signing a lot of people's papers between 1994 and 1998, both of you, including the Secretary General of the Government. None of you, so let's say I signed one of these documents. Ten of these documents. Tell me, have I ever lowered your salary? [[...]] Never. But I've been uplifting. So what's the problem? Why don't you give yourself a chance? Just give yourself a chance that I signed you the documents that gave you higher wages. Yes, you can deny it. It's true. Of course it's true. I've signed your papers. I've raised my salary a few times. But look at one more thing. As far as this job is concerned, you declared this job for a crime, you wrote, "sum of abuse of the official position" and with Mr Staret's signature it went to the police. And a copy of it to the prosecution, so for the sake of both of us, that Gorenaka would, yes, wouldn't that be nice, would it? Oh, you'd enjoy it, wouldn't you? But you won't do Gorenaka that way. No, no, no. Because I'm gonna lower my wife's salary first than I am. I also reduced my wife's salary by a good 30% in 1997 so that it was legal. So I'm gonna be everyone and I'm gonna be everybody. You reported it to the police and the D.A. You're the one who reported this to the work inspection. And what happened? The work inspection, the record of which was quoted, found that everything was fine. What did the police find, and what did the court find? Nothing that's not a crime. So, why are you talking about some job that was legal, which was legal? Mag. Clementine, I'm talking about your corrupt practices, which I have evidence of. You're talking about talking to you about Janez Janša in 2012. You said yesterday he praised you. I would have you in 2012. You know why? Because just before that you were talking about what banking crime is, where corruption is all there in the Ljubljana Bank, there's some corruption hanging out of every window, that's what you were saying. And Jansa probably expected something to follow now. There was nothing there. But I ask you to answer Mr Shirtzl – now you are looking away again, as you were looking at earlier. Answer Mr. Shirtz, where did you get the supervisor? You have repeatedly stated that this is your product that you have made, and I have praised it to 300 gods and to this day. But tell me who did it, did he have a contract of work, with what kind of public order did you do it, and how many of these people got paid? And how did you secure the data at the time this supervisor person was working, and according to my information, she had no contract with you? Did you break the Secret Data Act? That's the first part. That is what Mr Shirtzelj asked, and yet there is no answer. Yeah, that's where you were talking about the client presidents' report, the 20,000-euro car, and so on. Yeah, well, nobody's denying it. There you can play whatever you want, because any citizen can listen there, because you hung on YouTube, as I know. But you also checked 6 euros. You both checked, including 6 euros. Ramshakov and how you said she was writing from the office. Mr Kontic sat there, who had previously done the same thing as the President of the MVK in one term. You had the chance to declare that corruption, but you didn't. But you see Ramshakov. The menacing letters written by our supporters. Do I give you anything of mine? Or is it Eve's, like, that way? You know who writes them? Your supporters. Yeah, so what? Then what do you even say about threatening letters? In short, if this part were to conclude that I would not be too long, I would still respond briefly to Mrs Kolesh and her performance, "game for Mr Klemenčič's personal discredit". Okay. Ms. Kolesha [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Or Koléša, I don't know, yeah, okay, you say Gorenjek, so come on. I drive through the Schentjur every day. And of course at the time of the election, I didn't know who was running for you there. But there was Mira Cerar for SMC, that's it. And there, when I was with our Member of Godchev of Šentjur among the people, we were talking about voters like the others -- by the way, she wasn't doing it because she was on vacation, but a good, personal thing -- I remember one conversation with one woman, and I said, "Lady, how many pensions you have," and she said, "200 euros". Well, you see why I'm mentioning this? Because she said we were discrediting the Minister. "On the basis of newspaper articles," she said. The Court of Auditors is not a newspaper article. The Court of Auditors said that it had illegally spent 34,000 euros. That's 170 of this lady's pensiones who voted for Mira Cerar. Bravo. Mrs Kolesha came to Parliament. The name of the flight was Mr Klemenčič. Mrs Kolesh could be, say, Miss Years. She could be the first salad grower in Slovenia because she does everything by order. In Del you get everything you want; you order an EPP e-mail machine and the product falls out. And so came the product Name of the Year. She could have been the Miss of the Year if she had been ordered something like this at Del's. No body has found corruption. That's what Mr. Koppmeyer said. Who's to say corruption, Mr. Kopmeyer? The Anti-Corruption Commission! And you voted against her finding out yesterday. Then consider what's true now. That's what Mrs. Kolesh said. Think about what's true now. No body has found corruption. Yeah, of course she's not, because that's what the KPK finds, but you took that right from her yesterday. An attempt to settle with Klemenčič, 26th extraordinary meeting; yes, no, then also a budget meeting, which is an emergency, a problem or something for you? Who called it in because you called it in? She had the reputation of KPK; yes, she had the reputation if you do a survey today, a little less than in time today, Mr Klemenčič, but now the situation is there that they are almost fighting. You read the papers and you'll see what they have. Logically, why she had such a reputation – because Mr Klemenčič was ahead of him too, Mr Kos roared about the extent of corruption in Slovenia. In Slovenia, too, corruption fights corruption and everything else draws, draws, draws between people. Good luck, Mr. Dobovšek. Look ahead. An alleged violation of Janša's rights. Are you still talking about the alleged violations of Mr. Janša's rights, Mr. Kopmajer? These aren't supposed to be violations, this was determined by the Constitutional Court, but do you admit it? If you confess to the Constitutional Court, then say it was a violation of human rights. Yours too, "Jansha must be of Parliament". Let's be clear, "no evidence of corruption." Yeah, well, the Court of Auditors wrote 34 grand, and you say there's no evidence. Uh, Mrs. Muršičeva, look what she said, "proposers see the very suspicions of crimes." No suspicion of a crime; it does not at all distinguish what a crime is and what corruption is. I hope that the head of the delegation will teach her. We're talking about corruption, which is something other than a crime. At the same time, you say, "We take all suspicions seriously," she said, how – but you vote against! It doesn't work together, then it's not serious if you're voting against it. And it would be nice to have an expert discussion. There are no expert discussions in the National Assembly, they are political. In principle, these are political debates, but, yes, it is a bit national. I don't even know if I would say what I have written yet, but I have time, I'm on Mr. Tashner, "SDS is in favour of lifting the KPK" – never and never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. We have said that the KPK can have preventive tasks, as it has in European countries, but that asset control goes to the Court of Auditors. That's true, not the KPK termination. So he doesn't. "There is a need for a change of law," yes, if he sees one, then yes, but if he sees any other, some other principled opinion of the'supertype', then of course it is without connection. However, the problem was that his customers, who had just given such an opinion at today’s session, put Maja Sunčič in the Reporter very nicely. I'm sorry, sir, it's gonna be a bad word, but I'm quoting her from a reporter named Maja Suncic. But she said, "if Janez Janša were to declare a piece of shit unfavourable, the left would declare it a national dish." You see, that's just the opinion then. But that's what I was quoting. In short, if I finish, I still have some time. Mr Klemenčič, Mr Klemenčič, you have not rejected anything. Even today you were just talking about those Kosovo cases, and nothing about the cases directly brought to you by the Court of Auditors. You yourself have already spoken about Mr Maslesha; this is irrelevant now to mention again, because we have convinced you that we will not. But for the public's sake, it would be good to say the next thing. I'm not interested in your wife's business. I'm not interested in anything. The supervisor just shows everything, I think it's yours or whatever you said. She had 0 euros, she had 1 million, she had minus 1 euro, I don't care. All I care about is that you didn't report them. You didn't report them. And you say, "I didn't know." I could say before KPK, "I didn't know that Jože Tanko bought me a car," you think I could say that? I don't know if you'd believe me then. So I'm not interested in anything, there's a fact that you didn't report two companies, but by law you should. Let's move on. You've been studying airline tickets for a year, but you haven't studied, you've been protecting the government, and you've been protecting Minister Virant. You haven't done anything else. But it's a very simple thing; the airline ticket to Brussels doesn't cost 100 euros, we all know that. If you buy it a lot in advance, it's 400, but if you buy it the last day, there'll be a thousand 500. [[advertising from the hall]] That's what we're all about. Do you need a year of checking to find out if something's wrong if someone gets a ticket for 100 euros? Not one more. No, Mr. Klemenčič studied this every year. But if he finally found out that this was corruption, I'd understand. But he found out that it wasn't corruption, but the employees of Adria did the wrong thing, and the minister didn't do anything, God forbid. So if someone were to wire the minister a million dollars, it would be the one who ordered it, not the one who got it. This is the logic of the head of the KPK, who simply discredits what he wants. You know, that's a serious problem, of course. I don't want to talk about those loans anymore either, because I think it's been pretty much said. But I still have a few questions for you, which I will save in the hope that you will stay here; after all, you are obliged to remain until the end of the session; you have previously predicted that you will not. But I have such unpleasant questions, I could paint your face red. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Get Mr. Igor Zorčič ready. Here you go, Mr. Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'm running out of time, obviously I won't be able to answer Mr Vink's questions; I've never touched you, but I'm going to call you, all the time. If you're going to ask these questions, given how long I have, you're going to have to really just watch how my face is painted because I won't be able to answer you. Very briefly, I would like to highlight the two sides and answer one question, which was indeed Mr Tanko, I honestly think, no matter what you think; because here I agree with Mr Han. [[…]] Mr. Han, when I was chairman of the commission, once stopped me and said, "What, are you getting at kids?".. That's true and it wasn't pleasant for us to understand, I don't want to, I didn't want to deal with your child or with Janša's child, just as I don't want others to be with me, and we never claimed that you'd intervened, but the fact was. [[…]] And that's why there was no, by the way, criminal charges. The inspection found that the conditions of employment had been violated and we, by interrogating the people who had led the proceedings, found that there had been an intervention from Janez Janša's office for the employment of these two persons. They're not guilty of it. I don't know if you had anything to do with it, but that's another thing. I'll open up Vinko's blog, and I'll start writing these things like you if you want. Otherwise, you have a decision, you have a record of the hearing of the competent persons, and that's it. But it sucks that we're talking about this here. But what is wrong is that in fact, the president of the biggest opposition party then takes this as one personal attack on me, because we really couldn't do it any other way. We also worked, by the way, on the employment of the daughter of the former President of the State We never decided to do so, because we resigned afterwards and left it to the second term. [[…]] Yeah, you're nodding, aren't you? Yes, because all three of us have been appointed by the previous president, we must be excommunicated by law. Speaking of which, I don't know, but now call a new commission and ask her what they did if you want. It was brought very far, but indeed, we tried to work as impartially as possible. As far as credit is concerned again, because I think it's important if anyone else mentions it. I now have specific data – 2007 for the villa in Bežigrad, 1.8 million received a SDS loan with a 1.3% interest rate from the state bank, Abank. That's one thing. I didn't say before, Mrs. Anja Bah, that you flew out of the chair, so if your family was listening to this, you didn't have to worry about falling off the chair; I said, "if you could get off the chair." I'm sorry, I fell out a little bit. I'm really sorry we were just talking about family and so on. And here again I agree with my colleague Han that I crossed a line, too, but I cross it because, pissing because, you know, you say 200 times one thing and it's like talking into a wall. And now I'm going to repeat this: Gorenak Vinko said earlier, Mr Vinko said, "You haven't thrown any things away, you've excused yourself." That's not true. I said all the things that were coming to me. I told you about cleaning the windows, I told you how it got that 17,000 and so on, and I said it was taking responsibility. But all I wanted to do was set up a mirror for you that your government has committed hundreds of millions of violations through 86 violations of the law, by peeing, in four years. What would happen if we were, I don't know, 20 years old, just like LDS was in power. That's one thing. Mr. Vinko has talked a lot about the personnel and so on, and since you've just mentioned that you are, I don't know. And for Daret, it is true that you reminded me of this, but it is not to be forgotten that for many years you were the head of the Ministry of Human Resources at the time of the highest LDS rule and that these things – perhaps you will also say this once – have also left extremely high financial implications in the state budget. [[...]] You were chief of staff. In the 1990s, because of your decisions, you know, because the differences between the diaries and the field supplements that you advocated were exhausted by over 700 million SITs by a huge number of police officers. It's still in the police force today, in fact, one more than just an anecdote. But I mean, I mean, people leave clues, and in this case you certainly left them as chief of staff. That's just a confession to make. Now for a little while about the supervisor. I forgot to answer that earlier. I also saw your question on the SDS page yesterday. Yes see, also "Uncle" Google answers these questions. The supervisor was made free of charge, costing neither the euro, except for the amount of wages — partly because he did not work only there — heads of the Information Security and Analysis Department at the KPK. The supervisor was made with the cooperation of an external programmer who offered his services free of charge – Primož Bratanič, his name has been known and has appeared a lot lately. We didn't have the money to pay him, and he didn't even ask for it. He programmed it along with our internal programmers. We didn't even have any money for the servers, so for a while this was hosted by him, but in accordance with Article 16a of the ZIntPK we signed a special agreement on the protection of personal data and all the key personal data were not on their servers at all, but were on KPK and every matter was recorded. And believe me – I mean, you don't have to believe, believe it or not – we had a review of the information officer, the former and the present, who found no problem in this regard. It is true, however, that now, but I have no influence on this, there was some difficulty among the new committee, and there was a market inspection and so on, but the bottome line is: this was probably the only project – and for this I could get the reward of this colleague, I could not thank him more than personally – which was done in such a way free of charge, but never, despite the fact that many institutions have verified what secret, personal data have left KPK. But it is true that after we left him and also colleague Kovacic, who coordinated these things, Dr Kovacic, things got some other accelerations, but I can't influence that. And there's something else I'd like to say, quite frankly. I remember when we put the supervisor out, you know, but the historical memory is still something nice; not today to say how many times you praised him. [[…]] Yes, you did later, because the whole public began to praise him, but the fact is, when we put the Supervisor out, there was no party in this House to greet him. The first day, the first week, there was no party, the other way around. According to the Supervisor, the government of Janez Janša was 256 companies when it came to power in 2004 – I understand, the debt was with the LDS and then it was necessary to replace the suppliers and so on – 256 companies "scanslall" contracts and put their contracts in. I don't know, Tetre, if you want. But it was millions. And Mr Tanko has repeatedly questioned me at the MVK about this, "you had the methodology wrong, that's not right." So you wouldn't be embarrassed, because the LDS, when it came up earlier, is the same or even larger number but the supervisor showed how and one other devoured the country, and therefore I full remember then, I really remember that there is no opposition and no supervisor's position almost a month nor, no, I said because Mr. Gorenak said several times today and in his question of how this project has always been welcomed. [[…]] [[…]] Yeah, he's not here. After it was known that you wouldn't succeed, not you, but that some lobbyists would fail to lock it through funds and so on. A few more — 36 euros or what it costs to steal or not to do. Mr Gorenak, Supervisor also shows that you have earned between €60 000 and €80 000 from the public sector only with copyright contracts. I hope you'll also tell that pensioner how many of her pensions this represents. At a time when you were an MP, a minister or a secretary of state. I'm glad you had time to lecture.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u53	Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I see that these lies lie to Mr Klemenčič about my son's employment, which continue. Clearly, this rate of hatred against SDS Members and their family members is enormous. My son took a job at Geoplin during the reign of Pahor. Pahor's government! And there couldn't be a call for two people from Janshe's office. Do you understand that once? You were doing an audit on Geoplin and look at the dates. Check it out. Check it out. Not now what to lie about is that it was like that when it wasn't. In the days of the Pahor government, this happened. And, Mr Vice President, I think it is more than my duty to draw attention to the lies that are happening here and they are constantly repeating themselves. In this case, in the second case, in the third case. That's not a minister, that's a liar! Do you have a minister of justice, or do you have a minister to waste a lie? Apparently for shaking down a lie. He was doing an audit, but he doesn't know. So it's more than obvious that in the draft report you were working on, he wasn't in, and then he was inserted afterwards. If she was doing an inspection, what does this have to do with your special case report? What does it have to do with an inspection? You were doing a review of something else, I guess. And if you are aware of the suspicions of the corrupt conduct of Officer Jožet Tank, why didn't you initiate a procedure on the KPK and not somewhere else that you should be on official duty? You didn't answer that question. Why didn't you initiate a procedure against me if you found out, examined it, found that one of the SDS officials was employed in a state-owned company and didn't initiate the procedure? That's a key question. This defamation, Mr Klemenčič, is implanted in your chip. You have a chip. Instead of answering the question, spend your lies on. Unresponsible, unfair, unfair. And then how can I trust all your others with regard to the items on the agenda? Absolutely not. It's a lie. What you're saying isn't true is in the archives of the National Assembly because you submitted the documents. And, Mr President or President, let this gentleman be warned that he is beginning to speak the truth and to begin to operate with facts that are verifiable, not with what he fantasises and happens to him in the back, and that he is wasting this fog here and selling it to this national assembly and to the Slovenian public. I'm ready to go if you're ever going to be president of the KPK to your hearing on this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Of course, I don't go into the content of your reactions, which can also be such or different, I would just like to ask that you just consider that to be a mag. Klemenice can no longer defend. Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I have to say the next thing on this matter. I was talking about you yesterday, mag. Klemenčič, Mr Klemenčič wrote on his blog, the contribution has the title Tested Liar or something like that. Tomorrow the Doctored Liar will contribute. It can't be different because now you've told so many lies, of course he's going out now because he can't listen to the truth [[advertising from the hall]] . No, no, no, the truth should be heard. Mr. Klemenčič, run from the truth. Once again, Mr. Klemenčič, run from the truth. Let's move on. Mr. Klemenčič talked about my lectures. How much did your ministers make? How much did the Prime Minister earn, how much did he earn? Let's make a deal. I earned it in 12 years of my class, now he's got 60 grand or something, he said, I didn't hear it. I think he said 60, so I mean, the data is probably accurate. [[…]] Do you know how much that is? That's 416 euros a month for 10 hours of lectures. Let's just make a deal. Let's just make a deal. 10 hours can be taught, we have Mr Horvath there, who also teaches, we have many others in this National Assembly, who also teaches and I am sure that I deserve the least. Yes, but that is what Mr Klemenčič says as something terrible that has happened. Nothing happened. That's the stupid thing he says. Look, he said another stupid thing. But you helped him, Mr. Old, did you get those journals? I think you did because you belong in that category. Look, let's make a deal. Let's make a deal. He was talking about 700 million SIT back then, but you know what he did? The police are during the war for Slovenia, probably you too, and Mr Krašovec is aware of this, because he also solved these matters, at least in my opinion. [[…]] But you know the matter. You know her very well. You know, he hung that obvious to me. But you've seen it, it's a sworn lie! And he's an sworn liar. All these journals were made during the war for Slovenia and the period of the establishment of the southern border until 1993. After 1993, there is no dispute between a single police officer’s diary! However, it is true that the court ruled at the end of 1994 and that payments were due in 1995, 1996, 1997, when I had to sign. So he's wronging someone who didn't pay the journals in front of me. Mr Krašovec knows exactly that this was the truth. You know, and he hangs it for me, he hangs it for me, like I'm the subject of debate now; because he's the defendant, not me. He hangs it for me. Look what else he hung for me. He says I was chief of staff at the time of the sworn LDS. That's great. That's not true. I became chief of staff on 1 January 1995, when Mr Ivan Bizjak, SKD, was in office in the interior ministry. Later, Mr Šter, including the SKD or what he was then, I think. But when Mr. Bandelj arrived, they replaced me. See, that's the truth. That's the truth. That's the truth, and he says I was in LDS, there's the chief of staff. Do you see how they lie? Then he talked yesterday about bailing out that loan in addition to the mortgage. Look, here's the record. That's very interesting. I don't know, the camera probably can't catch that. There's 11 types of X's on the record up there. Do you know why there are X-rays up here on the record? Since Mr Klemenčič has cursed, he has broken down, the bag has been metal on the table and, of course, they have not been able to write the record. 11 species. But the question was whether it was a mortgage or a guarantee, he replied, "as has already been said, a mortgage was granted." There was no guarantee. But today he's talking about bail. He made it up again. They've been mediating from Janez Janša's office. Well, that's how Mr. Tanko replied; probably at the time of Borut Pahor you can intercede from the cabinet of the government of Janez Janša. That's really what one of the moons brought back. Look, there's something else he said: 1.3 percent of the loan that SDS got. What did he say? [[advertising from the hall]] No, that's not the question of whether we're paying him or not. We're paying for it, aren't we? But he could say, 1.3 percent of the loan got SDS and LDS got 3 percent. You see, that would be an argument against us. So data 1.3 doesn't say anything if you don't tell me how much SMC he got. SMC was financed from Zagreb, abroad. That guy, that magnate said, "I gave them something small," he said, "I gave them something small." Something small for a billionaire could mean a million, could be a hundred million. That's something very small if you have a billion-dollar asset. So if he gave you something small, tell me how much he gave you! But the law says you can get a zero. The law makes zero. But you've got something small. But we took the loan, and we're paying for the loan. And now we're the problem. [[advertising from the hall]] And for Mr. Klemenčič, SMC is not a problem. You see, I'll talk to you later. He'll be listening to me for 28 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u58	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Now this meeting, which was some sort of silent interpretation against the minister, has somehow turned into advocates for colleagues of the SDS. Well, I see it's kind of bad. There have been a lot of speeches about these findings, and I might point out some other things that need to be highlighted. Where are these practices that are evident to the Minister of Justice? They fall in the period before 2010, some of them from 2009, 2011, and then the illegal appointment of Roko Praprotnik later, and violations of human rights in the process of controlling the property situation of the Presidents of Parliament – 2013, then in connection with the hearing of the President of the Supreme Court, also later. I might ask you about these matters relating to the 2011 period. For example, the minister is infringemented or not active in the rental of the National Investigation Office. The Minister explained all this in detail. The fact is that there was a whole lot of judicial, police and other procedures here, that some of them had their epilogue and that, after all, the minister himself had made a proposal to open proceedings before the KPK, which he explained. But I'm curious, given that this is a 2011 case, why isn't there a proposaler then, in 2012, when he even had a majority in Parliament, why didn't he then initiate this kind of procedure that he started today? The same is true with regard to employment at the KPK. They're from 2011. At that time, there was an article in Journal 24. To understand each other, you may have misinterpreted here; Journal 24 never predicted that the employees would be certain people with certain names, but, in return, he described some kind of story, if they were informed, but never informed the public themselves in their media. In short, it was a story told back and very questionable about credibility, even though it was based on some sort of anonymity. But good, even if something was published on 26. 9. 2011 in Journal 24, I wonder why you waited four years? What led you to this? I don't understand. I don't know how you imagine, then, if you say that these are acts of corruption, how do you imagine to pursue corruption if you propose something you did in 2011 to deal with 2015. Illegal appointment of the Hand of the Praetor; I understand everything about how to obtain the appointment of members of the commission. It is obvious that the minister here should then, as a member of the Senate, initiate some sort of procedure — I don't know, against whom, against the President? - I think they're completely groundless. Even with regard to his wife’s property, the minister explained more than convincingly how it was. But there's something else I'd like to explain. In all these matters, even if they were true, as you describe them, they are not, there is no corruption within the meaning of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. If the Court of Auditors had already initiated such a procedure in the case of an audit report, since it has that authority and task, you as individuals could perhaps have initiated a procedure. It is not necessary for the National Assembly to deal with such a matter one year after the minister has been appointed or even four years after he has been told that he has done something. This is completely incomprehensible and shows that the topic of today's meeting is, in fact, some kind of discredit, as mentioned by colleague Kolesh, the discreditation of the minister, similar to the kind of meetings that have already taken place. I'm predicting, maybe I'll be wrong, the next session is probably the President of the High Court of Masles, then Fisher, and then the Minister of Justice again, and that's kind of how it spins around in some kind of cycle. These meetings were nothing but meetings, and this is just one of them. That this is a matter of totally unjustified discredit also shows a response to all these answers, the Minister's in-depth replies, which somehow, I do not think was the level of debate for this Parliament. There's some evidence that the minister or someone or the MPs have chips embedded in his head. I mean, this is outrageous, and I think, Vice-President, that you must not allow such a debate in this House. If someone talks like that at the inn, it's one thing, but if it's in some body, the highest representative in the country, I think it's an unacceptable matter. In short, the debate so far has shown that it is another one of the meetings in the cycle when certain individuals are discredited. It's nothing special in the sense that it's any surprise. It seems that colleague Gorenak specializes in certain persons in the field of justice, that it is his department within the party, and this debate today has shown exactly that and, in fact, all this proposal with extensive statements that do not stand up to some opinion, which is obvious that if someone wanted to prosecute corruption, he would have done so in order to report it to the corruption commission himself, but not to bring it into this assembly and demand, "let's all make a decision together" because he obviously cannot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be personal, too. I'll be very personal in my debate. The people I will mention are very large – two million are, or if I am a little more accurate, a good million taxpayers, taxpayers, those who in some way pay their obligation to the State regularly so that this country can function. Unfortunately, their money goes to tax havens and elsewhere. And these people are asking me in my office, on the sidewalk, wherever they are, to do something to reduce corruption, to reduce barbarism in this country, for more states of law, to take away those who have taken us. And here we are powerless, the opposition makes demands on the government, it doesn't produce results, we are gruesome, if we demand meetings of committees or the National Assembly, we are also ridiculed for it. It seems that we have a different view of functioning, of justice, of honesty in this country. And it's probably not exactly out of the vine if I quote a statement from a famous American economist and researcher in the global tax avoidance industry, James Henry, who found out, how, I don't know, that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia took 50 to 75 billion euros out of our country, mostly into tax havens! Of course, this is not a criticism of this coalition, of this government or of the Mag. Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. This is a situation, this is a situation that politics has to solve in some way or say, "this cannot be solved". And I remember a few years ago that Mrs Angela Merkel, the chancellor, waved with one mini disc and she said, "Here are the data of our citizens who have drained money from some German country," and they were also politically invited, by the German government or someone, and they said, "Listen, you will pay such a percentage of the tax,..." I don't remember, "or we will drag you to court." And they were great effects, positive for the country, positive for the citizens. So it went out and probably still leaves almost how many – 8 state budgets. And that is why I, my esteemed colleagues, are interested in measures here to eliminate, or at least to reduce, this malignant creation that devours our society, this creation called corruption. Sometimes I think that more than we have legislation, more than we have KPKs, if I say so, is corruption. I'm not just interested in diagnosis, I'm interested in action, it's the real treatment of this malignant creation. That's what we're missing. We're probably all in agreement here. KPK finds something corrupt and so on and so on, members themselves have and have had problems, now see, the current KPK composition is struggling with one another; what should our simple citizen think about this institution, what in God's will? That everyone's making a fool out of taxpayers. But at the end of the day, a citizen comes before an MP, and he says, "You're there, you've got a job to do, for God's sake, do something already, though!"...and we make demands before the executive branch of power; we shall hardly be allowed before the judiciary, because it is very independent, even independent of itself, and nothing simply happens. Why am I talking about a diagnosis? I will never forget because I have read in detail the assessment of the situation; this is one report that has the date of March 2013 which came to the National Assembly 6. 6. 2013, of course, this is a Commission product to prevent corruption. We have talked a lot about this and, above all, about the content of this material from page 51, I am thinking up to 68, where there is talk about assessing the situation in the Slovenian banking system from the point of view of systemic corruption. As an interrogator, Mr Goran Klemenčič also spoke as head of the KPK at the so-called Pogačnik Parliamentary Investigation Commission during the Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. You don't think we've figured anything out. While we are here when we read this, when Mr Klemenčič said that they have on the committee and even invited us – very fair, very rightly he invited us to come look at those I don't know how many, 12 meters of folder reports, maybe 12 files, I apologize, it's just been a while – to come and see if we can see those 40 credit transactions that have been thrown out by KPK and have gone to look at them and find very interesting things. Back then, I had a feeling we were already holding Cefisel's neck. And we're not holding him today and we're never gonna hold him. That is why, of course, the bank hole is being regenerated and it is becoming new and it will become new. The Commission, on the basis of several reports on the disputed operation of banks owned by the majority of the state, of course, the implicit Commission actually says that state ownership is a favourable mile for corruption, and the data it received on the basis of its own initiative in 2011 and 2012 have also begun to systematically analyse the situation in the Slovenian banking system, namely in banks where the country has a majority or dominant influence. In this process, the Commission examined more than 40 transactions already mentioned, which were handled, approved and concluded by companies from NLB, d.d., New KBM, d.d., mainly those two during the period 2005 to 2011. In these cases, the Commission examined the granted loans, claims and purchases of claims, project transactions and leasings and the purchase and sale of shares. The transactions under consideration were carried out in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the course of the investigation, the Commission conducted interviews with more than 50 persons responsible for the approval of banking transactions and the supervision of banking transactions. The Commission notes, interestingly, the following: "Bank recapitalisations constitute a method by which the socialisation of the costs of private exploitation has been carried out in banks which, in the broader sense of the word, are owned by the people of the Republic of Slovenia." "The Commission considers that the expectation that the economic situation in the country could be improved without regulating the situation in the Slovenian banking system is unfounded." A very good diagnosis, a very good forecast, but obviously I don't know if anyone has ever read this report, at least as far as the government is concerned, except for the members of the already mentioned Parliamentary Investigation Commission, which has dealt with the detection of responsible persons with names and surnames, and to this day has not found any person. And the law enforcement authorities, as we once saw on national television, said that we would probably not find the first person responsible for the bank hole until after 15 years, that is, never. And what is the lesson of this situation? That she's supposed to be a thief, they don't get you anyway. That's how these things work. I was kind of happy, and I also told Mr Klemenčič, as a candidate for Minister, that I thought there was a logical way for him to go from being President of the PKK to being Justice Minister. If I went to the Secretary of Defense, I wouldn't see any logic. But that he went to the post of Minister of Justice. And I thought logically, and I said optimisticly, "Yeah, but there's something going to happen from this combination." Maybe I'm unwaited, maybe we'll have to wait until the end of the term. I'll wait, and I'll tell my constituents, "Wait, it will." Then what am I going to say at the end of my term if it doesn't work? Mr Klemenčič, I remember, as an interrogator on the committee, he also told us, "know what, about the biggest credit transactions in state banks, the boys agree somewhere in Tržaška on vampires." Again, I said, "Yeah, then we've got them." We do know who's going to that inn. Probably some banker, then the one who's gonna close this loan deal. But from here on out, we don't know how to make a move. From here on out, we can't paint this term "guys" in the name and last name. Why isn't she here? Don't we have enough legislation? Do we not have political will or any other will? What's going on? And yet let me tell my citizens from the least developed region when they beg me, "Take those who have taken us, and it will get better in this country". But hope dies last. Mr. Goran Klemenčič, I hope you heard me. If not before, at the end of the term – if you experience it and of course I do too – we will see each other, but then it will be severe if there are no results.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say that I felt very sorry for myself a year and a half ago when I was kind of saying good-bye to the theater, because I thought I was leaving the theater, and I can see that I didn't leave him, that I just came into one just a little bigger theater. But it seems to me that this theater will have to face the number of downturns slowly so that we can at least worry. We didn't have that in the last theater. Yesterday I was on the Committee on Internal Affairs, where we also heard that the members of the coalition were not sufficiently advertised by the opposition on this committee. I have to say that I always judge what's going on on on the board, whether I'm going to answer and what I'm going to say. And yesterday, when Minister Klemenčič literally knocked down the proposer at all 13 points of the readings, there was no need for any of us to come forward at all. I don't think there would be any need. What the minister said was enough. For I have waited all the time for the meeting of yesterday's committee to say something new; something that we haven't heard a million times before, something that the Minister hasn't answered in a million times, something new, something that the competent institutions haven't done before, and they haven't found out that everything was okay, and unfortunately we haven't heard anything new. And since we haven't heard anything new, there's been a lot of explanations from the minister because they've been enough. And even today, I don't really know what members of the coalition can answer here because we've listened to the same thing again. Once again, the minister had to say the same thing a million times and look again, he replied again on all thirteen points, reasoned and left nothing of this proposal if anything ever happened. Because in this proposal Aha, Comrade Gorenak, you call the minister a defendant. [[…]] That's probably what you'd want, but the minister here doesn't act like a defendant. And even if these articles, which are the basis for what you call evidence in your proposal, and by the way, yes, five points since the thirteenths are based on articles from the media, of which two points are only on articles from the media. [[…]] Just. They're here. I've counted it. Count it for yourself. And I, uh, okay. So, the competent institutions have been looking, looking, judging — that is, the KPK, the Court of Auditors, the Labour Inspectorate, the Public Sector Inspectorate — and none of them have filed any application anywhere. No one has identified any corruption. As the only kind of credible document on which you rely these findings, and this is the Court of Auditors report I do not know if you have also read the response report, because the KPK itself has already resolved most of the irregularities in the process, which, by the way, we have already found out today, come from a time before Mr Klemenčič became a No, this is not a lie. [[...]] That's a fact, documented! It's not a lie. It's not. Mr Goran Klemenčič himself ordered an external audit on his arrival at the KPK because he found that the KPK had not done so yet and was already able to remedy certain shortcomings identified by this audit on the basis of this external audit. [[advertising from the hall]] And I note that you are running low on some facts, because these are just attempts at some of the personal discredits of ministers, as well as of us Members here with the interlocutors we listen to in between when others speak. And as I said, the minister has repeatedly explained all the allegations, repeatedly refused. That you say that none of this has been rejected, of course, is a lie, and it will also appear on the tape when it is published. Yesterday you also called the minister a "legal guru". I agree, although I would not tell him the legal guru, I would call him a legal expert, and this is a great expert. He is one of the leading men who has been fighting corruption in this country all the time, and these are also facts. Under the leadership of Minister Klemenčič, the Ministry of Justice has already drawn up packages of three novels of judicial and prosecutorial legislation already adopted by this National Assembly, or if I add to it, this National Assembly has already adopted twelve laws proposed by the Ministry under its leadership and eight sub-legislative acts. However, I can list them, although my colleague Tanko will then again object that this is not the content of today's debate, but I do think that it is: a novel law on criminal proceedings, a new law on free legal assistance, a new law on the State Prosecutor's Office, on courts, on judicial services, on the Registry, on legal proceedings, on cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, on the Penal Code, on the Enforcement and Insurance Act, on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions Act and on the Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest; and eight more, as I said, on sub-law acts. All of these have created a basis for a more effective prosecution of crime, for a faster resolution of disputes, for better quality of the judiciary, for more effective enforcement of criminal sanctions, for the protection of personal dignity in enforcement procedures, for public investigations of state investment projects, for public access to the work of judicial authorities and lawyers, for enhanced criminal protection of vulnerable social groups, for the protection of freedom of expression, for the functioning of the media and for the right to know, for greater legal security of individuals in business, for faster and more user-friendly processing of applications for free legal assistance, for budgetary savings and for adequate grounds for the successful withdrawal of European funds. All this is what he's for. Klemenčice takes over from the beginning of his term of office as Minister. His work is good, and the way you did it this time, it seems to me, with the words of colleague Anja, a shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u64	I must respond to what the predecessor said, Mrs. Servant. Look what you said again, "all pertains to Mr. Kos." Listen to me, what you're looking at now, really look into the eyes, "all pertains to Mr. Kos," you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u65	Most of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u66	That's not true. You've said it twice. The purchase of real estate 17 000 relates to 2011, the jobs relate to 2011 – EUR 16 000 paid or contract work, that is EUR 34 000. This is Mr Klemenčič's direct responsibility and you are not talking about Mr Kos, you are wrong. One more thing I need to remind you: The Law on Systemic Projects is not yet adopted, but it is in the drawer because it says "disgusting". "The Shame" writes up and now he's put it in the drawer. And one more thing: Of course you came from the theater to the theater, yes, but you had 600 euros there, and here you have 3 000, and that's why you even have to read something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Eva Irgle, prepare the Replica, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u68	I've done a lot of things in my life, but everything I've done, I've done very well. I wasn't just at the theater, I was at the bar, if necessary, I was at the fairs, if necessary, but I did everything with honor and joy and great; you can call and ask. So I read it, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please, you have the floor. Get Mr. Dusan Radič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, I am pleased that Mr Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, has also joined us again. But first, let me say this — when someone has to defend himself with such personal insults, he stands on very torn feet so that we do not even talk about the humility of such a person. Mr. Klemenčič, I'm talking to you. So today, we are talking about the controversial actions of the former President of the Commission to prevent corruption, the corruption of the President of the Commission to prevent corruption of the former, the abuse of the situation and the abuse of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we insist and also demand that the Commission's new composition to prevent corruption exercise thorough control; the distinguished Minister, we want the Commission's new composition to prevent corruption to exercise control over your conduct when you led the Commission, because that is the case and because transparency and responsible procedure must be followed. Unfortunately for now, as our data shows, you have failed to do so. That is why those who are called upon to do so, and in this case this is the current composition of the Commission to prevent corruption, must carry out a thorough review of your work. Of course, I'll go back to other things that weigh you down later. Look, Mr. Secretary. When we talk about the integrity of an individual, which is clearly enshrined in Article 4 of the Law on the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, we need to know that the integrity of an individual does not work only when he is in office, but the integrity of an individual also means a different function of an individual. That is why this reference of yours, both at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs and today, is that of all things that we tell you, or of certain things, in particular with the assets that we are reading to you, that have occurred before you have taken office either in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or in the function of the Secretary of State or now of the Minister of Justice, this is, I will say, a complete misrepresentation, because you need to know that we know that we know the cases, even in this National Assembly and elsewhere, when individuals have resigned from their position, that is, because they have done something, acted unlawfully, they have done things in the past, when not many of these people know that they will even stand or be appointed as officials. And here's your integrity, Mr. Secretary-General. Here's your integrity, not that you're always attacking and insulting. But it also shows here your integrity as it is. It's very, very much started. As President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, you did not report your wife's company. Of course you're minimizing it now. But the fact is, you didn't report it. You couldn't explain why the house you're staying in was not entered into the GURS records. You couldn't explain. I was also a member of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission when we investigated, if I say so, your assets, because under Article 21 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the Mandate-Voluntary Commission is the one who oversees the Commission's anti-corruption composition, especially if it finds that there has been a suspicion of abuse either the situation or that there has been an irregularity within the official's assets. You also did not want to explain how it is possible that you received a loan under significantly more favourable conditions than the others at that time. Why, in this case, Mr. Secretary, were you privileged? Why? And I would like you to answer this question exactly how this is possible. Why am I saying this? Of some individuals, officials So that there will be no mistake, you did it right, because in procedures you should be transparent and demand everything if there is any doubt or suspicion of the legality of the property, but Mr. Minister, then you must be the first to say by yourself, "I will show all the documents". [[…]] But you didn't do it. You, for example, from SDS President Janez Janša, when you checked his assets, demanded accounts for 10 years ago and more, including for electricity, who paid it and so on, and you yourself did not wish to submit any invoices to the Mandate-Election Commission. No document to determine how you purchased certain items related to your house. And that is why your integrity, Mr. Secretary-General, is extremely questionable. To go to the Court of Auditors. Even in these arguments, you are incorrect, even blurring the whole matter, saying that you are reducing the weight of these acts somehow and not taking responsibility; if it is not already subjective, it is at least an objective responsibility. And if you're a man of integrity, fighting corruption, then you know what you need to do if there are doubts and doubts about the illegality of business. I claim that the President of the Government, even because he has high ethical standards, should never have proposed you to the post of Minister of Justice. And you should reject this, not because your expertise is questionable – I do not doubt that, and even when we are talking at the meetings of the Committee on Justice about the laws on the agenda, this is not the issue at all – but today we are talking about the integrity that a person has, not only under Article 4 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, but it is also another individual's action. Thus, the Court of Auditors issued a report some time ago on the supervision of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption at the time that you, Mr Klemenčič, led the Commission. The audit was indeed, as you said yesterday, also made in some other budgetary users. But what's essential, what you didn't say, is that you have the worst possible results, the worst possible results. They were not as bad for any other budgetary user as they were for you. That's why it's a problem. And that's not something we let go of — you've broken 8 laws, you've broken several regulations. Not to mention the Laws on the System of Public Sector Wages, on Public Servants, Labour Relations and so on. But what I think is even more crucial – you have violated the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which is also the legal basis for the establishment of your commission at that time. You broke this law, and I ask you, Mr. Minister, where is your integrity in this case, where is it? I know you can't answer anymore because you've planned so online that you've said everything in one piece, and then you knew that you won't be able to answer our questions further, but that's your mistake. But I can say, and maybe sometime in the next debate, we'll get to the end or you'll be able to give the answers. Look, Mr. Secretary. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission must be objective, objective, when dealing with any individual. It must work in accordance with integrity and must not be politically biased in any way. Unfortunately, your operation, as well as the work of your predecessor, Draga Kos, was anything but political impartiality. And you can see that on a daily basis. Previously, you were talking about the employment of Mr Jožet Tank's son, who happened in the days of the Pahor government, at a time when Mr Pahor led the government. But interestingly enough, there was another interesting job at the time, and you didn't notice any signs of corruption, as did the son of Mr. Jožet Tank. We are talking about the employment of Mr Branko Masleš's son in one of the institutions of the Municipality of Ljubljana. But then you know what the problem was, and you know that you were investigating Mr Jankovic's assets at the time, and you know that Mr Jankovic was also in the Supreme Court. But it wasn't a problem for you, it wasn't a problem. Then, with regard to former President Danil Türk, you said earlier, "Yes, we opened the procedure, it seemed inappropriate to us, but you know, we couldn't find any signs of corruption". And not because they wouldn't have come to them, but because you've simply resigned from your position earlier. It's a mockery of people and of the natural intelligence of people, of a healthy farm of intelligence. This is what everyone sees as political bias and this is your problem, Mr Minister, this is your problem and this is a question of integrity. Not to mention the case of the architect Ana Kučan, the daughter of Milan Kučan, always and everywhere with the Municipality of Ljubljana and its companies. Do you think there's anything at stake here? You may find it controversial, I ask. Is it because it's the right person with the right political pedigree that's not the problem? I'm just asking questions that, unfortunately, you can't answer today, but they seem very important, essential and urgent to me. Well, then, if I move on. Let us recall the airline tickets mentioned earlier by colleague Gorenak. You will recall, Mr Minister, that before Mr Virant's interpretation, where we also mentioned these cheap airline tickets, I have written a rather long letter, perhaps you are still storing it, I do not know, but you have never responded to this letter, Mr Minister. At that time, you were still President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Why didn't you answer? You did not reply simply because you had to carry out a specific project, this is the demolition project of Janez Janša, this is the first, together, of course, in contemplation with Dr. Gregor Virant, and when you had to say that Dr. Gregor Virant acted corruptly, you protected him. But you protected him by delaying his procedures. A few cards that you should review have been reviewed for more than a year and finally found that it was not a corrupt act. More than a year! But just to see how your time is actually running; when you've investigated the assets of all the party presidents, you've spent significantly less time to do so than to review a few airline tickets, where you should only figure out how many prices deviate from the actual prices. Why did it take so long? [[advertising from the hall]] I know you'd love to answer, but you can't. But I really want to know why. Mr. Secretary, if we go any further. The commission to prevent corruption under your leadership, if we watch the clock again, took more than a year to examine the validity of the rental of the NPU building. You said here today, "I'm out of position." Mr. Minister, you were appointed overseer when this procedure was under way, but you resigned later. Why didn't you say it was corruption then? Why didn't you tell me? You stepped down exactly when you were recalculated when it suited you. And we know that when it suits you, you're out of position. And there's something else about banks. I said yesterday, and you said again today that the former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, had called you on the phone and congratulated you for having started investigating the bank hole. Really, I have to say that at the time, I also said, but finally some things will move for the better, to find out who the culprits are for the bank hole that the taxpayers might know that whoever does something illegal is then also convicted, and of course we thought it would be investigated. And that's why the former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, congratulated you at that time. But you did not complete the procedure as in the employment of Dr. Danil Türk's daughter, but in some ways you prepared or arranged for the award the work of Mr. Rok Praprotnik at the New Ljubljana Bank. If this isn't fantastic, Mr. Secretary, first-class, then I don't know. This is your problem and this falls within the area of personal integrity and we are talking about it, but not about you today, instead of explaining these findings, which are justified and proved over and over again on the basis of clear records, including the Court of Auditors and on the basis of numbers, insult and throw at the agenda of the person and personal stories of people who are not here today and cannot defend themselves. And they have nothing to do with politics and nothing to do with your credit. Nothing at all. But you only say one sentence about credit and you think the story is over for you. About other people, such as the son of Mr Jožet Tank, you're selling out in the beginning almost half the time. You've spent almost half your time on that. And this is actually how you started your debate, with discreditation, with deliberate slander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Radič has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much. For starters for everyone you like to travel; I wrote "flight Ljubljana-Brussels" – I did not write Brussels because Brussels also hunts – and look at the fraction, in 3 seconds I found a flight for 50 euros, in 3 seconds from the Ljubljana airport, as well as another one for 115. If anyone's interested, I'd love to, but I don't want to do any commercials. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] But I don't have it back. They must have been some kind. [[…]] In short, even 50 euros can be flown from Ljubljana to Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u73	Mrs. Eva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u74	Last year, last January, the European Commission published its first report on the fight against corruption in the EU, which notes that corruption affects just each of the 28 Member States and deprives the Union by 120 billion euros per year. The situation is best in Scandinavian countries and the worst is in Mediterranean Member States such as Greece, Italy and Spain. Slovenia is among the most prominent in the fight against corruption, according to the European Commission, because it has a well-developed legal and institutional anti-corruption framework. Let's see what former Romanian Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič said to the current Minister of Justice, then a KPK employee, to former Romanian Justice Minister Monica Macovei, the current MEP: "You must expect and accept this in our transition countries. In any Germany or England, the political parties themselves cut off corrupt policies and protect them. They are organizing meetings in Romania. Therefore, you need to know that if you resist corrupt politicians in our countries, you are also making a personal sacrifice. You sacrifice your family, you sacrifice yourself. Some people can do it, others can't. Not everyone's a hero. If you really want to get the results in the end, you have to insist." That's what Mrs. Macovei said. The head of the International Anti-Corruption Academy of Vienna, Dr. Martin Kreutner, wonders: "When do anti-corruption commissions become a problem? Only when they're successful." Not just in Slovenia. It's a global phenomenon. Regarding the battles against the anti-corruption commission, Dr Kreutner says that anti-corruption commissions such as Slovenia and other countries are not floating in the air in some kind of nirvana, but are a well-thought-out mechanism, which is firmly attached to a series of international documents and rules – from the UN Convention, Council of Europe documents to EU rules. It is therefore necessary to reject attacks against anti-corruption commissions that attempt to reduce their legitimacy by policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, everyone! Today we met at this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, for which a group of Members and Members of the National Assembly made a request to introduce the procedure referred to in the second paragraph of Article 13 concerning the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption against the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on suspicion of corruption, infringement of the rules on conflicts of interest, restriction of business or lobbying, or on the assessment and elimination of individual or systemic corruption risks or infringement of the ethics and integrity of the public sector. In some positions of the parliamentary groups, notably the coalitions, it was found that there was no reason to initiate such a procedure, as Minister Klemenčič was doing well. I also believe that Minister Goran Klemenčič is doing his work in a responsible and good manner. At the time when Mr Klemenčič was President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Commission experienced the greatest reputation for preventing corruption due to the professional work of Goran Klemenčič. Even after the administration of the Ministry of Justice, Minister of Mag. Goran Klemenčič continues his work of fighting corruption, fighting for the legal security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I am joining the opinion of all those who want to see Minister Goran Klemenčič as such, this is a fighter against corruption. This meeting today is only required for the purpose of discrediting Minister Klemenčič in front of members of the National Assembly and in front of citizens or the public. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Government has examined all the findings cited by the proponents in the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and found that the findings are unfounded. The fact is that the Commission could put in place a procedure against Goran Klemenčič in order to prevent corruption if it were found to have acted corruptly. The Court of Auditors also did not impose any corrective action, not during the procedure itself, nor after the issuance of the audit report, following a review of the draft audit report to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors has found no infringements of the obligation to operate Magi. Goran Klemenčič. And the operation of the mags. Goran Klemenčič as Minister of Justice. The Ministry of Justice is under the leadership of the Minister of Mag. Goran Klemenčič introduced three new laws in the field of prosecutorial and judicial law into the procedure of the National Assembly. Your Honor, allow me to clarify. In March this year we passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, then the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Service and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. All these laws introduce a strong systematic strengthening of the mechanisms for the ethical functioning of the judiciary in the field of justice. And that's very important. The basis for judicial ethical codes and for the establishment of ethical commissions that have already been formed is given. There is a more objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for election to the judiciary and the state prosecutor's office. Mechanisms have been put in place to enforce higher standards of official and private conduct and conduct of function holders in the judiciary. Amendments have been introduced to improve the functioning of the judiciary, i.e. the deployment of district judges to district courts for the purpose of speeding up the case-solving work, I cite as an example. The Special Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia has established a special department for procedures relating to the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Staff restrictions on the appointment of new state prosecutors with special knowledge to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office have been lifted. I've only mentioned the most important changes. In the light of the above, I, too, believe that the call for today's meeting is intended primarily to be held in public with the Minister, respected by Goran Klemenčič. And to conclude, I will use the opinion that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has written in this matter and that I also very much agree with. It reads: "From the work done and from the ambitious priorities of the Ministry of Justice, the efforts of the Minister of Mag. Goran Klemenčič to strengthen the rule of law, upgrade existing mechanisms to combat corruption and increase transparency in the public sector." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u78	Yeah, just for a little while. Mrs. Popotat. A lawyer, a lawyer, look what you said. You said the Court of Auditors didn't find any error. The Court of Auditors noted that Mr Goran Klemenčič violated 15 laws and, among other things, spent 34,000 euros in an illegal way, and you say that the Court of Auditors has found no error. I'm, you know, a little confused right now. I've already prepared to start clapping you. I thought I'd clap you, but then I looked at the calendar, and I see it's December 9th, because if it was April 1st, I'd start clapping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If I spoke to military terminology, I'd say "attack is the best defense." So, answers with some reasoned content of Minister Klemenčič were turned into attacks on the Slovenian Democratic Party and I think that colleagues – both in the role of the proposaler, colleague Gorenak and colleague Bah Žibertova, as well as colleagues Tanko and others, also colleague Irglov – are proving that Minister Klemenčič is misleading the Slovenian public today and is lying in front of the cameras. I'd like to remind you of three important points. I don't want to repeat what my colleagues said, but I'd like to open up a few clear questions. First, Minister Klemenčič says that he has always been impartial, that he is not on the left or the right side of politics. I would like to ask Minister Klemenčič, of course if I had this, I could say that if I were lucky to have been in the hall at all, so I would like an answer, which, from the transition left, when KPK was president, he actually planted. Who was he investigating, and for which of the transition left did he put the investigation to the end and issue the report? If the answer is someone who has been written off by the transition left who has not been able to form the government, like Mr Jankovic, then this man falls away. This was actually the body that everyone was walking on and somehow risked it. But there is something else; the man who was then in the investigation as one of the party's presidents, Mr Virant I was doing a little bit more with Adrie Airways' airline tickets. Also because I knew both commercial director Adria Kostajsk and his deputy. I knew them because I was doing business for Adrio for free in that famous aviation accident rescue operation in 2008, when we finally fixed up the plane crash in Janša's government and buried certain remains of people who had been killed. I could say and ask one question – why did I, like Mr Virant, write and call Mr Kostajsk to me as a acquaintance to give these tickets for free or for a minimum price? What my colleague Radič began to deceive again because it is typical of this site – most often read; do we have the so-called Prezhich’s reading badge? [[…]] I can tell you that you can't even be candidates for Members in the Democratic Party. But those who read can read their periods of education. When you get in front of the cameras, you can quote any text or quote from some text. The messenger, if he speaks from the heart, if he is to tell the truth, he must say it clearly and aloud without reading it. We had a reading badge, I had it in 1982, 1981, when I was in elementary school. What Mr Radic said is once again a typical system of deception. Yes, of course you will also get a ticket for Brussels for 50 euros, with a low price. We're talking about Adria Airways, a state-owned company that taxpayers, a whole bunch of people working for minimum wages, have recapitalised the circus together with about 50 million euros. I'm talking about someone who, like Mr Klemenčič, has said that we're all corrupt, only he's not corrupt. And I now ask Mr. Klemenčič why I never called Mr. Kostaniski, even though I had a big bonus for the operation that we did together, or because I was one of the bearers of this operation, why didn't I ever call him and ask him for my family to earn me more cheap tickets? Now, if Mr Radič as a Member looked at how much it costs to fly with Adrio Airways, say Frankfurt-Ljubljana, where Mr Virant was then flying in the first class – in the first, not in the commercial, as we are flying Members, he could find that the map costs around 600 euros in normal conditions. So I'm talking about the commercial class, not the so-called business class or the first class; the first class doesn't exist, it's business class at Adria. So what I'm saying is, these were cards that were on the market at the time about 1,000 euros and someone got them for 8 to 10 times the lower price, 8 to 10 times the lower price! And one more thing. When Mr Klemenčič was President of the KPK, the diary then clearly and loudly showed the correspondence between Mr Kostajski and Mr Virant. Right for the map, for the axis, when, which track. And one more thing — how many times is this for eight family members flying in a business class? So we're officials, we're taxpayers, we're recapitalising a state company, and we're sitting in a business class, and we're pounding and we're having more. That's the problem. You know, if Mr. Virant were to fly with Lufthansa for free, I don't care. This company is not state owned by the Republic of Slovenia and we about taxpayers did not have to give 50 million euros, as in Adrio. And then Mr Klemenčič wrote as an argument that he found that he had information that since 1982 Adria had already given all the officials tickets for special benefits. I have never realized that anyone would ever launch anything against the longest-standing director of Adria and so on, that is Mr Kocjančič; this has never been the case. The Minister's continued bias is that when Mr Virant was also investigated, when he had clear and loud data, when he could also request correspondence, as with Mr Janša, Mr Klemenčič removed those cards in the sphere of his operation, he took away the period he was investigating and removed those cards. So totally biased, again. And now he's not here again, not his secretary of state, so I can ask him which one from the transition left was the one against whom he concluded the procedure and issued the report. If he's going to talk about Mr. Jankovic, who was a dead body back then look, I'm not going to buy that. I want him to tell us what procedures he's taken, except for Mr. Janša. And the sequel. Earlier, colleague Gorenak reminded a colleague from Desus that she was a graduate lawyer and that she had not even looked at the material and had not seen what the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia had written. I would like to remind Mr Klemenčič, although I am aware that Mr Klemenčič has somehow specialised in international criminal law in the field of genocide and international tribunals and has also given lectures, of the principles of civil law relations that we know in law. The principle of civil relations, we speak of legal will, is a fundamental principle. And if we looked at Mr Janša's report, we'd find that he's not only a minister, he's not a specialist, he's not an expert, Gabriel, because he's not the only one who's not corrupt, we're all still broken, – he's involved in a civil law relationship as much as he's worth the property, whether he can pull this deal off or not. And he evaluates the value of the property, then he finds on the basis of the difference that someone around 150 000 euros had an excess asset benefit. Listen, this is nonsense; anyone who knows the principles of civil law knows it's nonsense. Mr Janša, he did not benefit from a state-owned company at the time; if he did so with a state-owned company like Mr Virant, then this problem would not be. The problem is that Mr Janša made this contract with a company that was not state-owned. It's true it worked for the country, but it's been working for the whole time. So he figured out the price that customers can get. This is nonsense, so he interfered with the availability of legal will between the two entities that entered into a contract. And that someone can do that, it's a typical example of total bias, ignorance of the law, the playing of the law, and any serious professor of civil law can just cross over and say it's nonsense. This is a typical example of bias. Not to speak for Mr Virant, I have made it clear that he has taken a very short period in which there would be at least these violations, and for Mr Janša literally all the time, even when the law had not yet been in force. And of course, the matter succeeds, the government falls and what, and the awards come. Awards are coming, so everyone goes to senior positions, a third member to college, one of the members, a third-rate journalist with a journalism school goes to NLB and studies corruption risks there. People of God, where do we live?? And also this journalist, look, Mr Klemenčič had him in the Senate, where it was clear that he was biased because he had been writing in a diary for years and years, his story and his journalistic work was just writing against Mr Janez Janša, SDS. This was the work of Mr. Praprotenik. And this Mr. Praprotnik, as a journalist, was a great specialist in corruption at once and appointed to the Senate. And in this Chamber, when this report for Mr Janša was issued, it was not excluded. He didn't cut out. What is the appearance of the impartiality of a commission? Once again under the Senate of Mr Klemenčič. He didn't cut out. First of all, naming someone who doesn't have any experience, so I don't know what experience. You have work experience and experience in leading and leading positions that are otherwise evaluated. You have someone who has had no experience at all if we ignore his primary education, with whom he has nothing to look for in the KPK Senate, or according to his knowledge, he had nothing to look for. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, my friend. He's a journalist. He's a journalist. He's a journalist. He's a journalist. There is no respect for the press profession at all; like me as an engineer and an economist, I do not think I can be a doctor or a judge in this case, so there can be no journalist there in the KPK. So, the continuation of this story was that the KPK gave up because they said that they were corrupt Nothing was wrong, so they gave up if we were all corrupt, only they were fine. [[…]] One goes to a bank where these bank holes were not investigated, did not issue a report, did not show with a finger who was responsible for the bank hole, that is, for the benefit they had made for the then administration, Mr Praprotnik gets a job there. Mr. Klemenčič says this is no longer the case. For the first time, he said that after that affair with the NPU building, where he was the head of the NPU project. However, the Head of the NPU project did not know that they had concluded such a harmful contract and damaged state assets and taxpayers; he did not know this; he may not know the so-called objective or subjective responsibilities. These two ideas seem to be unknown to him, and so he never knew anything. And this is the story of Goran Klemenčič. Not to mention everything that my colleagues have explained when he failed to report under law, when he resigned as President of the KPK and also his colleague, Mr Praprotnik, resigned, so he did not report his assets. Once again by law, when I should be in office. So all of these are violations that are clear and loud that we can prove. And there was nothing. Mr. Virant is still not being pursued by anyone for all he's done today. He's still a great advisor, and I think he's still the host of teaching processes at the Faculty of Administration and so on. Well, nothing, nothing happened to the left under Minister Klemenčič. And he says he's not biased – he's a lie again. A lie again. We can keep going. We can therefore continue to have colleagues and colleagues today say thanks to the Ministry of Justice; for abroad tells us how our justice works. I'm not saying it's all Mr. Klemenčič's fault. In a year and a half, I let him know long ago that he couldn't do anything, but he didn't do anything about it. See, today in Murski Sobota – the conclusion of the story with Popov; here he is forgiven, the story is concluded. Total abuse of prosecutors, judges. They use two who were totally biased, two with a JNA profile were fateful, sworn experts who even worked with Popov in the same barracks, and no one finds out, not the court or the prosecution. In a normal country, the Minister of Justice would be the first to resign, the Minister would resign in principle for defence, and these two would be dishonorably dismissed and so on. Well, nothing's gonna happen. The great piggy, in the long run, threatens the independent state of Slovenia and threatens those foundations of this country and Minister Klemenčič will not react. The shameful judgment and the affair of Patria; nothing happened, clearly and loudly, the procedure was concluded, it is clear that John Janša was innocent and proved his innocence. And look, nothing happens, one key affair. They used to talk about Mrs. Bettto that we were attacking her. No, we have only told you clearly and loudly that out of the four candidates there is one who is strongly derogated, for which all birds in all branches of Europe know that he is strongly derogated; not Mrs Betto, who is one of the violators, can say human rights. Even at the same time that you expelled Dr. Jaklič, a great top-notch expert, you actually did him the greatest service, colleagues and colleagues. Because Harvard has a clear and clear rule, so the best stay here. And so you let Mr. Jaklic stay at Harvard. But you've shown your bias, you've shown your range and, "let's spread your negative human resources selection to this government." This is what I think people will see, and even a minister like Mr Klemenčič today, people will notice. They'll notice his slanders, his lies and his attacks, not the reasoned answers to us, to those who called this meeting. And the point of this session is to clarify who's where and who's really done what. Minister Klemenčič has butter on his head, he has always been everywhere, so he was involved in the biggest corruption affair, he threw away the government. I have nothing to do with Mr. Klemenčič. They can't tell me that he's unsympathetic, that I'm in any personal conflict with him. I am speaking on the basis of an argumented debate. And I can stress my claims over and over and over and over again, and I can prove them. And I would like, Madam Vice-President, to call Mr Klemenčič to the Chamber to stop smoking whatever cigarettes he has, either electronically or legally. Let him come here and explain his innocence, his impartiality, and let him give me the answers to all my debate I have had, and all my accusations against him. So I would ask you to stop the session and ask him to come back and listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Klemenčič apologized to me, came back to the hall, had one urgent matter and returned. Replica [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] First is the replica, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Popotat [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much. President, I believe that you usually say that the representative of the Government is not and that he will come and that I know what Mr Klemenčič has to do now, okay, the Secretary of State has to be here. [[…]] The Secretary-General is not a substitute; you have the status of minister in relation to the authorities he has under the Government, but not the representative of the Ministry is not here. [[…]] Mr Klemenčič must be here or his secretary of state must be here, otherwise there are no business conditions. But you can get up and see if he's hiding out there from shame, and that's possible because I can't see, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I believe that Mr Minister will come back, so we continue with the replica of Mrs Marjane Kotnik Popotat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I would like to replicate to the honourable Member of Mr Breznik, who, when I was not in the Chamber, had to quickly criticize how I, as a graduate lawyer, did not know anything and how I did not read the material You know, respected Mr Breznik, and this is a serious accusation and you do not know how much I have studied him, how much I have read him and you have no right to say something about me in this National Assembly. [[…]] I read the material, but you didn't ask me before, I would have told you. If I misproved, perhaps in my debate, I would argue that the honourable Minister did not commit any such crime in order to be prosecuted by the Court of Auditors in order to request any proceedings against him, and the Commission has not brought proceedings against him in order to prevent corruption. [[…]] So we consider him innocent if there was no trial against him and he wasn't convicted. Anyone who commits a crime is only when proven and when legally convicted of having committed a crime, it can be evident to him and have consequences but not before. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u86	Just for a little while. Mrs. Popot, you're wrong. Look what the tape says. You said earlier, "The Court of Auditors in the case of Mr Klemenčič has found nothing wrong." If you have read – I do not know what Mr Breznik was saying, but I suppose what he was saying – our request and the Court of Auditors' audit report, you have found that he has violated fifteen laws and that he has launched 34 000 euros into the air. Then don't talk It's true that they didn't say it was a crime, but be right, you're a lawyer with a state exam and you have to be right. [[…]] It is true, however, that this represents a negative opinion of the Court of Auditors and, in our opinion, corruption, not a crime. Please be precise. Thank you very much. Have you found the Minister? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u87	I'm not looking for him, so much to know. Dr Jasna Murgel has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues, today we have again, how can I say, "a little mixed up in the grill" in the direction of our friendly opposition. We see that you would somehow like Minister Klemenčič to be the accused, but he's not. It's not because he's not in criminal proceedings, so please don't call him a defendant. It's an experiment. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I would ask the president to allow me, when I say that others do not jump in my words, thank you very much. It's an attempt to make someone look a little less black. KPK found, in the case of Janez Janša, that it did not prove where the source of the assets amounted to EUR 210 000. And this KPK is a very obvious world to you if you want the National Assembly to ask the KPK to bring proceedings against Minister Klemenčič. I would like to focus on what is the subject of your proposal; whether these may be acts of corruption set out in Article 4 of the Act in Article 1 or whether this finding of irreconcilability of a function is in accordance with Article 26, or whether it is a membership or an activity incompatible with a function — Article 27 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption — or whether it is a duty to avoid conflicts of interest in accordance with Article 37, which could then be a basis for requesting the PKK to bring proceedings against the Minister. We talked about a lot today. I must say that there has been a very broad debate on all sides, this must be acknowledged. For example, if I say only about the proposer, NSI has evaluated the work of mags. Klemenčič as minister. Now none of the NSIs are here, but I have to say to the public that we could use interpolation if we wanted to discuss the responsibility for Mr Klemenčič's work as minister. I must conclude that in the proposal you have made, you are not giving any indication of the actions we are discussing under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. You only generally call on the National Assembly to request the KPK to initiate the procedure. I will further explain what I mean by that, but the basic reason is to nail Minister Klemenčič to the cross. That's what you want. And now I'm going to explain why I think so. Tell me which of the actions you listed on each item have signs of suspicion of corruption, as defined by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Therefore, point 1 as regards the Court of Auditors’ audit report. You do not claim the suspicion of corruption, nor do you tell which acts are meant to state – this and these acts and these acts now result in the fulfilment of the definition of corruption in the law. No, you didn't. Point 2. You are proposing to the KPK to investigate for itself whether corruption and infringements of the integrity rules have occurred. What, you don't tell me. Point 3. Where the inspection did not detect an irregularity, the KPK should now seek corruption, because it seems to the proposer that this is corruption. Point 4. That's what we talked about. Mr Klemenčič did not appoint Deputy KPK. So I don't know what's coming to him now, but not something in general, but in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, so for one of those actions that are listed inside. And I'll explain what this is all about. Point 5. Intentional violation of the rules of procedure. First, before the Supreme Court. This Supreme Court has not established a presumptive violation of the case. But where's the corruption? What's corruption here? That's not in your proposal. In order for you to say, "it and these acts meet the signs of corruption as defined in Article 4, point 1". You have read this definition nicely, colleague Gorenak: "... is any violation of the duty of officials and responsible persons in the public or private sector, as well as the conduct of persons who are instigators of violations or persons who may take advantage of an infringement because of the directly or indirectly promised, offered or requested, accepted or expected benefit for themselves or for others". You have not stated and nor can you that a violation of the Integrity Act is now a breach of the rules of procedure. You can't even do that, but well, you haven't even tried it. Point 6 of your proposal. The alleged violation that Minister Klemenčič did not propose the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court because he did not exclude himself in one case. You also did not specify what corruption should be, but I am not saying again, because you think it is corruption, but according to this definition of corruption, which has its own indications. Yes, yes, your statements, because you really need to get the situation under that definition, but it's a little harder work and you haven't done it. Same point 7; KPK would initiate the procedure if mag. Klemenčič would not report the property as necessary, as he has now submitted as Minister the declaration of the state of his property. Point 8. As the Minister himself said, it's based on the guilt of this case, proven guilty of the accusation. Point 9. This commission is related to a bank hole. What I really want to know is exactly what happened when he failed to submit all the required documents to the Commission of Inquiry on the Banking Hole in 2013, what corruption was now here, what corruption was in it. But again, not what we just say, "I am now corruption." No, but like the definition in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. You didn't say that. You know, it's very difficult when you're writing a lawsuit, subsuming the actual situation under the law, stating, "these acts are therefore a violation, and so I'm arguing that someone did this act." The easiest thing is a little bit like, "Yeah, well, that's corruption, and I think that's it." So there is no definition of what corruption is supposed to be. At all of these points, you just say, "sum of corruption," but you're not dealing with what it is now, whether it really corresponds to the definition of the suspicion of corruption mentioned in the law. And then you're just so casually saying, "Yeah, and then there's an alleged integrity violation." That sounds so good, and Irgle's colleague talked about it; I know she'll have a replica because I mentioned her name, but good. I'm ready to hear that, too. This infringement of integrity, however, has its own definition in law. This is not exactly the case in your proposals, and you have not stated how the expected action and responsibility in preventing and eliminating risks has been violated so that the authority, function, authority or other decision-making powers can be used in contravention of the law, the legally permissible objectives and the ethical codes. In what, you did not define this; it is integrity as a legal standard, as a legal norm, not a political norm – but integrity, because we say that it is integrity and it seems to us and then someone gives up because his diploma was plagiarism. We are now talking about the legal, legal definition of integrity. You didn't mention it here, you didn't, you didn't, but you can wave, my respectable colleague, but you didn't. So it is not so easy to prove that certain allegations of irregularities or infringements meet all the signs of an act – it is not a crime now, but something similar, corruption or infringement of integrity rules. It is not so easy to play a role when we claim violations, to conclude that it actually fulfils the signs of this act, and you have not done so; because I understand you, it is a little difficult task. In short, in accordance with the law, you have therefore not drafted a proposal to say that your statements would in fact result in violations that you claim to have occurred under the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. And so, because something seems wrong to you, but it's wrong, because a lot of things are wrong, but that doesn't mean that it's not in accordance with the law, that it's a suspicion of corruption, but it's a violation of the integrity rules under this law. That's all I'm saying. In short, this proposal has simply drawn the line, because something seems to you to be a violation of the integrity rules, and there is a suspicion of corruption – whatever the Minister does, everything is a violation of this law. More precisely, it is necessary to specify, provide indications and evidence. That's how you do it in a court of law that you read so much to me. And therefore, since this is not all in this proposal, it is my view that this is the intentional use of the State Assembly for the personal and professional discrediting of the Minister. Therefore, I am pleased that the proposed decision has been rejected because it is fraught with all logic and law. And even if you feel this right with your heart right now – the heart must have a basis in marriage in case of regulations. But with such proposals, we will not contribute to the elimination of corruption and today, in my humble opinion, we have only wasted taxpayers' time and money, and I am pleased that we have already rejected this proposal in the Committee on Home Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Madam former judge, current Member and future judge, Doctor, you've covered the entire line. I'm going to justify everything you've just said. Article 4 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption states: "Corruption is any violation of the duty of officials responsible in the public and private sectors, as well as the conduct of persons who are instigators of infringements or persons who may take advantage of an infringement..." – listen to me because I too – "... because of the directly or indirectly promised, offered or requested, accepted or expected benefits for myself or for others." Let's do it in a row. The audit report, just two points that I will not spend too much time, says that Mr Klemenčič has spent 34 000 euros illegally. So it's under 4. Article; this is not just expected; it is a real benefit; 34 000 euros was spent according to the Court of Auditors, so someone put them in his pocket. That's what the report says. And you say he doesn't belong. Let's move on. Then the next case is the so-called NPU. How the hell is that? Mr Igor Jurij Pogačar had 11 000 euros of direct cash benefits every month, and it took three years; add, and you will get big money. So it's about corruption. There are no measures, but he was obliged to act, and he did not act; the result, of course, was Mr Igor Yuri Pogacar's unlawful wealth benefit. Let's move on. Employment of the Anti-Corruption Commission. So, he was obliged to act, he left his duty, it was in Article 4, and the result was a real benefit: two people got the job against the rule. Let's move on. Unlawful employment of Mr. Roc Prafortnik. He was obliged to do this act, he was obliged to act, so stated in the law, and Mr Rok Praprotnik received a three-year paid job, but he should not have received it if Mr Klemenčič acted and warned the President of the State that he had no conditions. That's what he had to do. Let's move on. The alleged violation of human rights in the case of John Janša or Patrie. He was obliged to act, he had a legal opportunity to act – against the President of the Supreme Court, yes, against the Prosecutor, but he did not do so and therefore Mr Maslesha still sits there with a great deal of pay. Let's move on. The principle of integrity violations. But this is a matter that Aja already had to report directly to the company under the law, but two companies didn't report it. [[…]] He didn't report them. He has waived the obligation to apply to two companies. Let's move on. Ah, doing business with airline tickets, where a year and a half or a year and something – to be more accurate because I'm right, you know, in these performances – he didn't want to find out that you can't get tickets like that at Adria Airways. By the way, one of the Members, Mr Radič found them for 50 euros, but not for Adria, that we are clear, not in 2007. So, since he did not act for a year and a half, Mr Virant was a minister for a year and a half and had a ministerial salary. Let's move on. Aja's business, handing over business and criminal charges. [[…]] He said in the transfer business, "a whole bunch of skeletons were in the closet." He said, "I'm going to press charges." Well, then he waited two years, but maybe Mr. Kos would've been locked up, and they didn't. So he was obliged to act, he did not act. Let's move on. Mr Virant's company, private at the time the National List was still here, operated with the National Assembly. The piano performances were for the National Gazette. Is that a conflict of interest? This is a conflict of interest prescribed in the law. Let's move on. Property and registration and credit. Yeah, how's that? What else? He did not explain, he is in the position that when he is not an official, integrity does not apply to him. That means you can steal fat between 2004 and 2006 and become a minister and everything's fine. It's not all right. It is or is not – when you are Minister, Secretary of State, Member of Parliament or waitress. Well, then you're wrong. You are wrong, your ex-judge, your current Member and your future judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u92	The fact that you explain some of the legal facts in your own way and assume that what you say is just so and that you have no proof of your claims remains. And now, with these additions, you may have tried to slightly complement the explanation of your proposal. But once again, just because you're explaining to yourself that something is that you're explaining a certain fact doesn't mean that it's actually that fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. As a proponent? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much. If it were like you say, law enforcement would have warned about it, but she even said, she even said it was in our favor. For the final sentence, see the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. That's not the way we explain it to each other. We don't explain 34,000 euros to each other, that's what the Court of Auditors says. If he spent 34,000 euros illegally, which is the Court of Auditors' conclusion, this is contrary to Article 4 and the end. Whether you like it or not. But I understand you, I don't understand you as a judge, but I understand you as a politician, because you have to talk like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, get Mr. Zvonko Lah ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Hello, everyone! Our Constitutional Court, in one of its decisions, has stated how the weak side must be protected, this is the opposition, and of course I will give it to the Constitutional Court, especially when the opposition has fair purposes. Of course, it should not be protected when it has a distorted role instead of honest purposes. Why do I think that? This debate, which has taken place here today until this moment, clearly shows what is the purpose, so what is the role of this action today. It is a personal conflict that the applicant, as they say, has with the accused. So we have a defendant. I cannot say that the opposition cannot be recognised as non-innovative; they are, extremely innovative, and this manoeuvre that is being implemented today is extremely innovative. In fact, the National Assembly should be the one to propose a KPK person, and this should be covered with concern for the fight against corruption; as Mr Horvat said, "with this we will solve the problem of corruption in Slovenia with this people will be pleased". What irony is that? What irony! Any one of those who signed this proposal could have done so at any moment. And I could have done that four years ago, just like Mr Klemenčič did against Mr Kos. I could have done that. So this is where things got slow if anything was going to happen in the area of corruption. But apparently that's not enough, it's not enough to send an application and the body goes to work. It's basically a matter of thinking, slowly leaking blood to someone. A debate is needed, a pile to which we will give the witch and burn her. But what is the sin of this witch, do we even know? What sin is this witch? I don't know. In the past, usually these witches didn't have sins. And even yesterday, when we set and rejected this decision on the committee, it was clear: the one who will vote "yes" is the one who will vote "against" is the one who supports corruption, and he is also the one who needs to be put on the pile and actually burned. In fact, it's so black white, so simple and simple. That is why I say that it is not a sin, that it is simply a matter of personal and professional discrediting of the Minister, of justice in general, and of attacking the KPK institution itself. If we think for a moment about who this person is and what it really is, it will not be difficult for us to identify or solve the puzzle, we will not have to guess at all three times to figure out what the real purpose is and who is also the one who advocates for the abolition of this KPK institution. So much for the desire to prevent corruption. Not to mention the presumption of innocence, which seems to be a privilege only for some. Today, it has been repeatedly said that the minister is corrupt, so what the body has not discovered has already been said in advance, so it is only a privilege of some. Let's not talk about how we understand corruption and integrity. Yesterday, she was repeatedly told what her definition was and read, and today it was said that she must always be present even when you are not in office. I agree, therefore, even when you are a Member. But I find that this definition is essentially extremely relative and everyone understands it as it suits him. And you find that integrity and respect for legality basically means for someone that they can do everything in their power to prevent the organs from working, that they don't get to the epilogue, and because there is no result, of course, then it turns into organ failure or even a violation of their human rights and ends up claiming compensation. This is really a relative definition of corruption or even integrity. So if Minister Klemenčič doesn't answer and he's spent time, I wonder why he's even here responding, it's not his job to answer the proposal here in Parliament. I could only answer these things before the KPK, not before this National Assembly, so don't say it's not an interpretation. It's basically an interpolation, nothing but that. And also the forecast that was said yesterday and also repeated today, so it was heard, "we're getting ready for tomorrow, the minister is going to blush"; I can put it forward and I understood it this way: "we're going to throw a living man a crocodile and we're going to enjoy tearing his arm, his leg, his head, we're going to enjoy it." I don't know what to think about that. It's true that I can't put my hand in the fire for anyone, sometimes not for myself, because I don't know when an objective responsibility will strike me in the head. But I can't land the way the proposalr did. In fact, what they claim has been repeatedly explained and reasoned. Many authorities have already spoken about this, namely the competent authorities. And what else can I do than trust those authorities that are competent and have made this decision? Who else am I supposed to believe in if I don't believe in the right institutions? Should I believe what the biggest opposition party says? I don't think so. And I think that's exactly the difference between us, who are gathered under the name of SMC, that we're essentially different, and whatever you spit at us and people spit on us with your help, we're proud to be who we are. And I too remain proud; for I will not descend to this level because I do not think it is worthy of man. And even if I stay with that 1% idealist, I won't be barking with wolves, even if they end up eating me. Why do I say not to this level? Because the proposer did not have the objective of taking legal or political responsibility, because everything points out that they do not have or are aware that they do not have the right facts. Because if we had them, we'd use a different route, i.e. interpolation or a complaint or some other procedure. In fact, it is a political attack that is being used for personal purposes. Many times in this National Assembly have been in this mandate since I have been here, the policy has been used for personal purposes. Perhaps a few more words about the person who is the subject of this procedure or the object of this procedure. I think he became known to the public at the time he took over the KPK or a little while ago, when he was Secretary of State and resigned because he found corruption and reported it. However, he was best known at the time he was active in the KPK and fought corruption. And that's how the public knew him. But why did he become president of KPK? Probably because he was corrupt. And also the commission, if she enjoyed so much trust at the time, why? Probably because "she was so corrupt" or because he touched herself essentially untouchable. Because he was shaking into an icy mountain, but I believe that the ice mountain is going to drift away once and that the stick always has two ends. I also think it's an experiment, with what's being done to turn him away from the work the minister's doing. It has been said how much progress has been made in the judiciary, but yesterday the proposaler said, "No, we must not talk about this, but this is not the subject of this decision". That's not true. Several points also refer to the current work of the Minister. And I'm not going to repeat what they've already said, what was done at this time in justice, but I'm just going to ask myself a few questions or ask them to you. Why would a "corruption" person like the person we are dealing with today take a stand for establishing a special department of procedures for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin? It could hurt him, it could hurt him. Why did he increase the penalties for corruption? Why? He could get caught up in that, too. Why is it advocated for a more objective and transparent procedure for selecting candidates for election to a judicial function and a prosecutorial function, if he is so "corruption" in the selection of these people? Furthermore, why is it advocated for systematic investigations of irregularities in the implementation of major investment procedures and has it prepared a normative basis which has been so torn up here in the National Assembly by the proposer? Probably because he's not fighting corruption, he's supporting it. Why would he want to inform himself of the judicial system and publish every judgment in order to show how the proceedings were conducted? Probably because he's corrupt. And why did he advocate that classified information be published and not criminalized? Answer it yourself. And that. Understanding the 5th point that you have cited; you say that it is an intentional violation of human rights, but you forget that this is one of the basic tasks of the KPK, to also exercise control over the assets of the officials and to point out corruption risks. And I will only end with a quote from this very person: "The very rule of law must afford the principle that is lacking in politics and set the limits of populism."to whom we are witnessing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor to prepare Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I have a bit of luck – Mrs Kozlovich, I will talk about you if we can wait – in the fact that I have known some people for 25 years, including Mrs Kozlovich. I can congratulate her on how far she has come with her perseverance and knowledge. We just met under some other circumstances 25 years ago. But look, now that the truth has to look into your eyes, it's gone. This is the same as Mr. Klemenčič. Same story. Look, she said, "disengagement of KPK." Who's up for an end to the KPK? I hope that Mr Horvath will tell me this, which is now my turn. I'd like to see who wants to shut down KPK because I'm gonna go wrap his hand. No, lie to Mrs. Kozlovich. The definition is relative; I agree, Mrs Kozlovich, and that is why we have also opposed this definition. If you look at Article 4 — which of us would not fit in at some point in our lives, probably almost everyone. The definition is stupid, so we voted against it, but it was accepted by your predecessors. Hunting witches; no, there are no witches here, 34,000 euros is not a witch, that's money, that's money. However, Mrs Kozlovič hunted the witches when she pressed the abolition button, and then she got it after, sorry, from the Constitutional Court. [[…]] That was witch hunting. Let's move on. She talked about the minister blushing; she wouldn't if he wasn't here if he ran away. I will not do anything special to him – I will set him a mirror that will be professional, which will be correct, which will not be personal, and this is it. But I still have time for this. You're attacking justice; who's doing this? Who's doing this? Think about it. Legal facts; what legal facts, legal facts clearly, you took away his mandate and should not have taken him. Maybe you'll get another "pof" on December 20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Because there is little time, my colleagues and the proposer have actually said everything in this topic to say, let me repeat myself a little bit and try to add a little bit of my own. So, as usual, we are back at a meeting where we are in view of the requirement to convene a meeting on the basis of procedural rules. But we want to talk about content. And as far as the content is concerned, what you read to Minister Klemenčič is in fact defined in the law as concepts. Which means that you claim that the signs that the law defines are fulfilled and only a procedural provision that, of course, we can propose to introduce procedures. This would be sufficient to discuss whether the National Assembly should adopt such a decision to require the Commission to prevent corruption to initiate a procedure. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and so have my speakers, and this is also due to the words used by both the proposer and on behalf of the party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, each of your speakers. It is therefore not a matter of convincing the National Assembly that the Commission should put in place a procedure to prevent corruption, whether there are acts that are corrupt or where the integrity of the public sector is concerned, but we are talking about what it is, what it has done, what Mr Klemenčič has not done. Which means, unfortunately, instead of talking about acts or abandonments, we're talking about people again and we're at a personal level, and of course, that makes me really sad and hurt that day, that we used it again to talk about people, to bet each other instead of talking about what's acceptable in society and what's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and coworkers, good-bye! I am personally pleased to learn that the proposer of today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in his paper to refer to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič cited in particular the facts from the time before his appointment to the ministerial office. I must point out that this has already been addressed, including in the hearing process prior to the appointment of the current government. The exception is only in one case when the suspension of measures against the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the Patria case is manifest. This leads to a literal conclusion that the Minister of Justice, in an objective view of the input, has little to say about his competence as well as the activities relating to the Ministry of Field Affairs. And here I would like to point out if that makes me very happy. But I have the following concerns about the material itself. Why is it only debated today and should be decided only by a decision to initiate a procedure for suspicion of corruption and infringements of the integrity of the public sector if the applicant has not submitted any new indications after the appointment of mags. Goran Klemenčič for the Minister of Justice, except in that case the new one I mentioned in the introductions? Furthermore, with regard to the work of the Minister of Justice in the current government, I think it works very well. This is confirmed by the fact that in the material itself, apart from one case, it does not state any other statement or fact to object. Because I must say that the judicial branch of the authorities under Minister Klemenčič has a huge caseload at the annual level, which could peacefully say that these matters are counted in hundreds of thousands. Thirdly, the decision should require the Commission to prevent corruption by introducing the procedure referred to in Article 13, paragraph 1, of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. And it is precisely because of this decision that I am surprised by this kind of proposal that he has decided on this innovative approach today, I stress, today. Are the applicants of this Decision not aware or consciously blinding their eyes to the fact that the Commission's questionable credibility to prevent corruption is called? I'm summarising the titles of the print media, given that there are also a number of things in the material that are summarized by the media. The media has a reverberation address: Unforgivable KPK fight against KPK. Continuation of the KPK decomposition. They also state the following: The President of the KPK initiated the Commission's procedure against his deputy. Disputes between members of the KPK Senate hoard their work. The situation is getting worse, the employees are leaving KPK. The statistics belong to matters that are defeated. All of this has also aroused attention in these OECD days, which is interested in the KPK itself as an institution, its independence and the relationship that the KPK President has with his deputy. If I come from this reality, I believe that the applicant's political activity today should be focused primarily on the establishment of a credible institution called the Anti-Corruption Commission and then to propose to the National Assembly an innovative decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I have to, Mr. Verbich. Mr Horvat did not answer my question as to who is demanding the abolition of the KPK, a finding alone. Mrs Kozlovicheva has returned, after she has not been able to look me in the eye, and now I see that she has come, welcome. Look, Mr Verbic, you've listed all these issues around the KPK and the situation in the KPK. What does this have to do with the opposition? What does this have to do with the opposition? We have the KPK we have. We opposed the law and said why; we wanted to transform the KPK into a preventive institution. Everything else is dealt with by the Court of Auditors. And secondly, the current KPK leadership was born where? You have the birth of the current leadership of the KPK. Her boss is a former member of Positive Slovenia, so left. It was appointed by the President of the Republic following a procedure taken by your minister or commission of your minister. What do we have to do with this? We have nothing to do with this. However, there is something else to be said. Today's session is also a coalition test, whether this coalition is capable of demanding the KPK to act, some of the Minister's actions from the past – five years, no more, seven years with that apartment and loan – assess and say whether they are corrupt. That's all we wanted, that's all we wanted. But what will be the result of today's session? Nothing. Not because of us, because of your vote. However, if you would support this matter, the KPK could assess whether it is or is not corrupt. We have to agree, unfortunately you don't have time, but you almost have to agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u106	Thank you very much, for your word, Madam President. Something has been said and it is right to return to the decision originally proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. It was a matter of proposing a decision or a request for a purely competent state authority, i.e. the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, to introduce a procedure for suspicion of corruption and infringement of the integrity of the public sector against mags. Goran Klemenčič. This was followed by an amendment, also due to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was completed in thirteen points. And we're talking about sum. And what are you afraid of, why did you reject this decision? We're talking about a suspicion that's not just gonna stay, it's just gonna get stronger. Mr Klemenčič, in his introductory statement or I think he's spent almost all his time at the time, even said that I was lying in my position. And he said, "Now let's break this onion." And what happened? Mr Klemenčič did not peel his onions, but he did peel the onions of everyone else, who are not at all concerned with today's debate. He peeled the onions of all possible people who couldn't even defend themselves and those who did, and his accusations were dropped immediately. Of course, he spent all his time on this "onion peeling" of other people; it was very clever, because this way he avoided specific answers. Last but not least, he could convince us that this suspicion is totally unjustifiable. Let's just go once more to the parts of those points, which, of course, we then proposed by supplementing the decision. Findings of the Court of Auditors; he received a negative opinion from the KPK under his leadership. Is it true or not? I'm asking out loud. Of course, Mr Klemenčič is not here, and it would be enough to just sit here and nod and nod. However, I tell you that he has already told others in his onion peeling that this has indeed happened. Otherwise, he was somehow going into an objective and subjective responsibility, but the fact is that he holds it. So the point is, it's holding. That's right. Another time. Mr. Mag. Goran Klemenčič as President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, whose important part of the tasks is the legitimate control of the assets of the officials, has not declared the property or has not entered the company of his spouse. He admitted that, too. It's true. Whether he didn't know about this company, as he explains it today, look, it's really not my problem. That's probably going to happen somewhere else, but I'm talking about facts. So that's what he's holding. It's true, Your Honor. And I'm asking the question a little differently. So who's lying? Come in. With regard to the links between individual companies and members of the Anti-Corruption Commission. Let me remind you that the company that was in favour of the wife of Roc Prafortnik at the time of this member of the anti-corruption commission was in business with the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. And it was with that passport the president of which was also in the pre-KPK proceedings during the same Senate. It's true what I said and it's true. But for you too, this is not a question of corruption's risk. Come in. Mag. Goran Klemenčič was the President of the KPK when they violated the constitutional right of the parties to the proceedings in their review of the property situation. That's right! That's right! Some people think it's funny. Some of us today have listened to Mr Klemenčič now slowly shed his blood, tear his limbs, hunt witches. Just look at what you've been doing and what you're doing. Your Minister's constitutional decision, you even took the mandates, and today you're saying we're leaving blood. In your way, respected, you leave it to the country of Slovenia, and this is a fundamental problem. And keep going. Goran Klemenčič also, of course, wanted or tried to peel the onion about the loan. Even with the credit, he got a haircut on some other loan, where it was about the company. Of course, that was not the case with him. And it will be quite clear to the public; Mr Klemenčič is with his wife – because they are both paying him, because someone is probably the holder of the credit, and under the credit contract I assume that because they are both paying him, they are also signed, it is for real estate, it is funny to you, but not to me because I took the credit during the same period and will also say it – I will get a mortgage of EUR 155 000. So in a higher value than the real estate value. That's the problem, Your Honor. Because no citizen, an ordinary citizen, can receive such a loan. He can't win. A higher value than a pawned mortgage does not. And that's why I also printed a whole bunch of debates between citizens and citizens, how difficult it is to get mortgage credits and what the values are, even real estate, because we're talking about property that has so much less value just because it's not in some center, even after that these values are measured. And at about the same time, I took credit myself, and that's why I know that exactly and very well. So that doesn't seem very controversial to you either. Yes, it is. Of course not, Mr Klemenčič, as I said. I'm sorry he can't answer these things, but everything I've said is true. Really, really, really, really. And I hope that I rejected his statement, even though I'm used to his picturesque debates, and I believe that he was a little betrothed when he spoke of someone lying here. In the end, since he is not here, and I believe that he will at least read a magnetogram, I would be very happy if he would ever answer me a very important question: did, of course, when he was still – oh, since he joined us – at the head of the anti-corruption commission, get any statement of suspicion of corruption involving lawyer Nino Zidar Klemenčič? I wonder if any such application has come and whether a procedure has been initiated or whether the matter has been dismissed and, of course, how many times has it been? I hope that Mr Klemenčič will tell me this, but I hope that the new Commission Senate will answer this question to prevent corruption, because I am really interested. Mr. Klemenčič, it's good of you to join us. I'm sorry you didn't hear me argue all the points and reject that statement of yours to lie and look into my eyes. This time I look you in the eye and I say you're wrong, and look who's lying here. Just one more sentence for the end. Indeed, because we have also tabled a proposal for a police meeting today in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I really cannot believe that all this time this meeting has been accompanied by the Minister for Home Affairs. She's present, we haven't seen her on the board many times, and today she's sitting here all the time, while the cops are outside. And just one more sentence about when some of you were talking, if you don't have anything to say about the content yourself, and you're going to say something more about the very good work of the minister. Today, on the Committee on Justice, we are discussing a report that his ministry should deliver to the National Assembly twice a year, and it is not. In accordance with the law, in accordance with the law, respected. And you know what the Minister's argument is? "This report is unnecessary. Administrative obstacle." That's how we break the law. Only one of them is therefore untouchable, and some of them really want to be burned in a pile. But also by pressing the button, you failed with this burn or ignition. This person came back even stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I think it is very unworthy that the Minister behaves so nonchalantly, vehemently and also unkindly in the National Assembly, both in terms of smoking here, escaping, passing and, of course, also in the way of communication. If all the ministers of the government thus communicate with members of the National Assembly — with these slanders, unspecified statements, unfounded statements — then something is very wrong with this government and with this coalition. Then the basis for the government's operation is not in finding the truth, in demonstrating the facts, in finding good solutions, but in dealing with everything else. Especially by humiliating others, discrediting them in an uncompromised way. We have tabled this proposal into the National Assembly in accordance with the law governing integrity and corruption. The minister boasted that this article was designed even by him, it is said that he wrote it down. So this agenda item is in line with what the Minister proposed, and the Pahor coalition has passed it, the then head of the KPK Senate. All those who have discussed whether this is appropriate or not have tried to discredit the applicants, all first look closely at the legal basis on which these materials are submitted. Check, see if you don't understand what you're coming to ask, we'll be happy to explain. However, it is not worthy of you to dispute the way in which we have put matters into the legislative process. Second thing. If you have read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, you will find that in fact our point is without error. In fact, the only thing they have proposed to correct is that we specify the points in the decision, and that is to state them as was the amendment. Now show me a government law that has so few demands for correction. For example, the Law on Systemic Investigations, which according to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, is even unconstitutional and is kept in the process of unconsciousness. You say the Minister is a great legal expert, but he proposed a law. The Government is led by a major constitutional law expert. And then the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly for this project of the Government finds that it is unconstitutional to violate constitutional relations between the authorities. First, set up a mirror and see what you're talking about and what you're doing, what comes from the high professional government of the lawyers themselves, at least five of them are in that government, including with titles, it's called academic titles, and bring such a victory to the National Assembly. The same applies to the legal profession in the coalition when it supports clearly unconstitutional solutions; you are warned in advance that they are unconstitutional and then supported. And you're the problem with what our materials are. If you read the Government's opinion on the proposal for our request to initiate the procedure, you will see that it is not specified that this opinion does not relate to the Government's opinion, in fact, to any point that we have specifically proposed, not to any of the 13 points that we have proposed, this opinion does not directly apply. We did not say anything about what the minister proposed in the legislative process - about the mini justice reform that everyone laughed at. We did not say anything about it, but the government praised it as the greatest achievement in the field of justice. The adoption of Greece's recommendations is probably not a European norm, because almost no state has a legal basis; these are recommendations that the duty states follow. The only one with us was the minister who obviously doesn't know where or where something is going after this justice department, and he suggested it as a legal norm. Significantly for coalitions with troubled ministers, they defend them at all costs. This was done in the Borut Pahor coalition, which happened in the Alenka Bratušek coalition, also in the Mira Cerar coalition. Perhaps I would remind you of a fact that was once expressed by the former leader of the Social Democrats Group Dušan Kumer, when he said, "We defended Kresalovo and Golobič on all the weights, and then they resigned and the government and the coalition fell apart. You're in this exact situation. Look at the current situation and the fact that it is likely to happen in one way or another. The coalition MPs were extremely inconsistent. You say we are dealing with matters that have arisen before the Minister's term of office. On an explicit question on one of the mandate commissions, when we reviewed the property situation in the previous reference, when I asked the former head of the PKK whether integrity was important even before the mandate, he said it was. He explicitly reiterated that integrity before the term of office was equally important. Because you probably can't appoint a minister of justice, I don't know, someone who's burdened with suspicions of corruption, illegal conduct and things like that, because it's possible to figure out from all these facts that are available to everyone and you have some of them on the table. It's probably unusual for some healthy society that wants to do something from their country. I think it is only necessary to draw attention to some of the facts again that have been exposed here and that have been submitted. First of all, I would point to the fact that the Minister acted in violation of article 14 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation before the Commission of Inquiry. For this law states in this Article: "The Government, the administrative authorities, the organisations that manage the public service and all public function holders shall at any time allow the Commission of Inquiry and its Commissioners access to the documentation they have at their disposal to issue the necessary permits for the testimony and to submit copies. The current chairman of the KPK Senate to the investigative commission, led by Marko Pogačnik, did not provide documentation in accordance with this provision of this law, since the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission referred to bank secrecy as well as to the fact that he provided documentation to the investigating authorities. You can look at the magnetograms of the commission of inquiry and you'll find out these facts. Whether he did so because he was in some banking arrangement and also part of the project was cheap loans or excessive loans in relation to insurance, this is another issue. But we can't avoid the fact that the Minister for his mortgage, which he invested as an insurance, got 2,2 times as much credit as he should under the banking rules. Credits of 150 000 euros or 155 000 euros worth of assets could only be obtained with factor 0.6, this is called the 90,000-euro circus. However, he received €170,000 and subsequently another €30,000, i.e. €200,000. I ask the rest of the citizens whether such a loan was granted to them at the time – 2,2 times around he received more credit than he had insured. Let me remind you that at the time, we also had, or a little earlier, one investigative commission dealing with Ultra and dealing with similar matters, which means poorly insured, unsecured loans with cheap or low interest rates. To compare the interest rate of one natural person, which was then the borrower or the borrower of that loan with a political party or an economic company, is irrelevant, because for all of these legal segments or legal companies the Banking Arrangement is divided, divided, and in the economic business of the committees it enables something, in the case of others, in the third and so forth. [[…]] But the fact is, comparatively speaking, this loan, for the first time, was almost unsecured, or only a third of what it could get or 2,2 times more received than it should have, and at a low interest rate. If KPK's current head says it's not a problem, it's a problem of its own. This is a problem that is difficult to avoid and is probably also the answer to why the KPK of that time refused to submit the relevant documentation to the investigative commission investigating the banks. If the work hadn't been done, let's say in the analysis of airline tickets, it's a serious problem. You can't get on a plane, get in if you don't have a name and last name on the map, and if you don't have a passport. I'm afraid that's the way it is with these border controls, the ones you're traveling. And the fact that KPK was unable to identify any names, no violations, no arrangements made by the officials to travel with Adrio is impossible. It's not a bus ticket, it's not a train ticket, it's a map where you have to register on the border controls, along with the check in, they're waiting for you. And yes, I don't know, the KPK, with the intellectual potential it had at the time, couldn't find out, points only to some facts, probably also suspected that the members of the KPK Senate traveled in a similar way as Mr Virant did. Look, this must be the logical conclusion. And the protection of Virant was primarily the protection of other officials, including members of the KPK Senate or some ministers. Look, you had every opportunity to prove that this wasn't true or that you found something else, and you didn't. So you didn't do your job and what you were paid for on this project with bizarre reasoning. I'm not surprised either, given what I've been following in this National Assembly, that Mr. Virant has found nothing. I doubt that Mr Praprotnik has been excluded from the decision on Mr Virant when you have identified the assets and assets and the rest of the business of the Presidents of the parliamentary parties. And his wife worked with a political party and got there, I think, nine or eight thousand Euros for that service. All of this is evident in the record of the National Assembly, presented at a meeting of the National Assembly in the previous reference. This was presented by Mr Vogrin, who knew these things, and nothing. Therefore, it will be difficult for Mr Klemenčič to defend himself with those deviant onsets and uncomplaintable on charges against other persons if he himself does not clearly carry out those tasks which he should have done. The target or two targets were searched there, but everything else was not even reviewed. I doubt that any questionnaire file exists for Mr Virant on the Anti-Corruption Commission at the time, I doubt. Because he received a major task and played a major role then on 7 October. I am very interested in the fact that the Commission's current Chamber for the Prevention of Corruption informed Mr Virant one day earlier that this report would be issued, like all the others who were in this process. That's a test, too. And now Mr Klemenčič is talking about the fact that the KPK has treated everyone equally, following the same procedures. It can't be. See, recently – and also in the material – the supervision inspection has found that the Commission has adopted its Rules of Procedure to prevent corruption in contravention of the General Administrative Procedure Act. It's the opposite. It has acquired the right to amend, by means of its Rules of Procedure, the laws applicable in the administrative procedure for parties to proceedings. If you don't believe this, look at the inspection work we've attached, including the document. Therefore, in order to prevent corruption under the leadership of Mr Klemenčič, the Commission has adapted, unlawfully, in contravention of the Law on the General Administrative Procedure of Rules of Procedure or the Method of Action, by arbitrarily deciding how, who and in what way, and by also by concealing documents or not allowing them to have access to documentation in some way. Well, that was a fact. Look, you can read this, you have it in the paper, and lawyers can say whatever they want, either Dr. Mitja Horvat or Dr. Jasna Murgel, who are in the coalition. I'm just asking myself because I'm not a lawyer, do they even understand these things that are written down and that we've attached to this session? If they even understand. I'm not quite sure that's true. There's something else about these things. I think there's some more lighting to be done. In his introduction, Mr Gorenak, who read Article 4, said what corruption is or how it is defined corruption. To know in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and also in the Commission’s current Chamber for the Prevention of Corruption, what corruption is, you can read in the Commission’s 2010 annual report on anti-corruption, where they have specifically identified what corruption is or how systemic, organisational or institutional corruption is defined. Where a person creates a situation where the arbitral or privileged conduct of anyone is possible, it means that he or she is knowingly violating legal standards and allowing certain privileged positions or privileged treatment. That is exactly what the members of the Commission's Senate have allowed to do to prevent corruption. Even in the case mentioned by Mr Klemenčič, which concerns me. A forensic investigation was carried out – as to how this occurred, I am not interested, but they have tasks and powers – and found in my son's extra work, this is said in the updated report, not in the basics that there was some illegal appointment and employment. But you did not find that, you copied it from the inspection decision of the work inspection, which found some shortcomings that the individual body accepts – the tendering and systematisation procedure is adopted by an individual business body. So they found a discrepancy between the two acts adopted by the same person, being the company's director, and from this you made a big story and accused it of having happened on the basis of calls at the time of the government of Janez Janša. You haven't even been around enough to see when the contracts for the employment of those persons you've been reviewing have been concluded. You weren't so much, but you had a KPK president there, two deputies, and Mr Stare was probably the one who was doing it. You haven't been so much and you've made a big story out of it, you've slandered everyone who touches it in an unfair, unethical, immoral way. In a way, because you abused the legal basis, you did it in a systemically corrupt way. This is the definition of systemic corruption because it means abuse or non-use of legal proceedings in this part. And then here's this Mr. Secretary's vehement explanation I don't know what. But it was not so much that, at the time of the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, he invited me to an interview or did a review of what I reported and what I was doing; for what we are doing in the National Assembly is all recorded. All phone records can be obtained from a stable and mobile phone. We could check everything. They probably did, but they had nothing to hold on to, so they wrote this design. And he's not responsible for that. He's a god. He's a god. He didn't do it because he wrote it. But they did little because they didn’t even know when it happened. It's stigmatism, and it means abuse of institutions and functions for political purposes to discredit those you don't like. That's it. That's what we're talking about. I regret that the president here or now, the minister, behaves so vehemently again, uncultured and unworthy because he does not listen to the interlocutors, but does all the other things. But this was the only President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption who had been rejected by the Legislative and Legal Service of the annual report. She rejected the annual report because it wasn't right, and he didn't want to fix it for seven months. That's it, and you're talking about how good a legal expert he is. On the basis of the opinion of the ZPS, the then president of the National Assembly rejected his annual report on work — this legal expert, who is now the Minister of Justice. How will this be the Minister of Justice if he is a systematic violator of legal standards, laws, factory structures, accusations and so on, which does not even verify the facts of the procedures he has carried out and signed in those specific opinions. It's a stunt that's being transferred from a previous job to this job, from a previous function to this function, and it's never going to be any different. And finally, since we're going to have to stop slowly, all I want to do is point out this hypocrisy that's going on in the National Assembly. Here are some of you, also Mrs Kozlovich, who is also a legal expert, I think, in this Group of yours, you have talked about that what we are doing can only be done by the Commission to prevent corruption. Yes, we know that, so we have written such an act and that is why we have tabled it and because your Group of Members obviously is too difficult and the problem would also be in the Commission to prevent corruption to reject it, so you have politically rejected our proposal for an act, for political reasons, and have accused us of doing so only by the Commission to prevent corruption, and we have drawn conclusions and a point so that only the Commission can deal with it to prevent corruption. Who's crazy here?Oh, my God! Who's moving around here?Oh, my God! Who here wants to protect someone in every way, by all means, as I said before — us or you? And to tell you this, some of the people who resigned from your mandate have found some facts at a time when they were not officials and were not Members and were not candidates for Ministers. Is that right? Then why did you suspend Klaudio Markež as secretary? Her plagiarism happened a long time ago before she became an officer before she became an MP. Reason – integrity, probably, then. Why did this happen to Stanka Setnik Cankar, she didn't get a fee back when she was secretary, but a long time ago. And you've eliminated it. And Mr Petrovich, if I'm not mistaken. What will you do with Mr. Irena Grošelj Košnik and Mr. Klemenčič? In the same legal situation as those who have resigned in your parliamentary group, they are in exactly the same situation. But apparently now is the time for hypocrisy, to read all the weights, now no more ethics, no more morality, no more I don't know what else. But now it has to be defended at all [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The government's representative only has six seconds. He wants a word? There's almost nothing he can say. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u110	You know, I'd love to give Mr. Klemenčič half my time if I had something to say, but when he doesn't have anything to say, I will. Today's debate is very interesting; half the people with whom I faced the arguments fled. Now they're gone. In the meantime, the Minister went out, and Mrs Kozlovič went out, and there is actually no one here from the SMC but Mr Verbic, who was trying to confront me with arguments. I don't know. It's really bad. That's when you have to face arguments. Then you run away. And why do you run away? You have no argument. Let's move on. For the public, let me briefly summarize what we did today. The rest of you know who were here anyway. We have requested that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia request the Commission to prevent corruption to verify Mr Klemenčič's conduct. Because you're saying there's nothing wrong, and we're saying it's wrong. So this is what we have requested, and by voting you have prevented this from checking the actions of Mr Klemenčič by the Commission in order to prevent corruption. At the same time, you put the secretary on your shoe. You've driven her out of the government because she may have had a plagiarism in history. But you know, double criteria. But how will it be with this lady from Trbovlje, I don't even know how to write; nor do I know what will happen, because I suppose you are afraid that someone else will come in, who will go to Dobovsk – double criteria. We have therefore seen that you have acted in a double way; you have treated some badly. Mr. Klemenčič, we've come to understand that he acted corruptly. For those of you who do not separate – and I see that the Vice-President of the National Assembly does not separate, but someone else – corruption and corruption – let me explain. The criminal acts of corruption are classic: bribery, bribery, blue envelopes mostly. However, corrupt practices are: any infringement of the official and responsible conduct of persons in the public or private sector, as well as the conduct of persons who are instigators of infringements or persons who may take advantage of an infringement because of the directly or indirectly promised, offered or requested benefits, accepted or expected. The definition of 'one a' which is not in Europe, and Mr Klemenčič now has problems with the definition of 'one a' which is not in Europe, but we have it, but it is in our legal order, and of course this is it. But we read to him, for the first time, "Lord the Mag." Klemenčič, Minister – I will not be the ones that Mr Kos blamed, as you say. However, you have personally blamed €16,000 of illegal property benefits for persons who worked under the contract and should be in a regular working relationship. You broke the law and acted corruptly in our opinion. You signed an illegal contract for the purchase of movable property for EUR 17,000, which is also corruption, and you didn't reject it, you didn't reject it; you said something to the secretary, you said something to the plaintiffs, but it's not responsible persons, you were responsible at the time. Come in. We've read your corrupt behavior in the case of the lease of an NPU building. Why? Because you knew of all your sins because you identified all your sins because you identified all the corrupt practices, you resigned, and then you were silent for a year and a half. And in this year and a half, you have obtained the illegal wealth benefit of EUR 11,000 per month - times a year and a half - we can calculate how much this is - for a third party, such as the definition of corruption, this is Igor Yuri Pogacar. In fact, it took a long time, and I had to come to the ministerial office to cancel this contract. That's what we read to you. We have shown you illegal employment or employment, which is in line with the definition of corruption – the benefit of someone third and the abandonment of duty – but because you hired some people, you should not hire them in a way that was in accordance with the procedure but corrupt. The procedure was confirmed by an inspection, and corruption could be judged by the KPK, but it can't because the coalition said 'it'. A few more questions for you. You have not answered some of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's questions, so I will try to mention these things. You announced a complaint against your predecessor because he had some, as it is called, full of files, cabinets of reports that he beat up there and did nothing about it. This happened in 2011, and you filed an appeal in 2013, the day Kos ran for the OECD. It's just an accident, you know, he was visited by criminals on the day he was a candidate for the OECD, by accident. But you had a case in your closet for two years. I'm asking you here for an answer. When you have five minutes, you can answer. Are you in the government of Borut Pahor or Alenka Bratušek, those governments were at the time when you made a decision to be able to work on trust? Such a decision is taken by every government, and so is our government, but never for the heads of the authorities of the independent state authority, but always for ministers. For I have information that you have been employed to trust and that this has then gone into a regular working relationship. That would be good if you answered. Otherwise, I have also asked the question of the letter, so that your successors will answer, but tell the public today if you have sinned. Then, you got some applications from your predecessor, too, I have information that there were some reports concerning your wife. What is the fate of these reports? How many did you get from the predecessor and how many applications have you had since you were president? And I want to know what happens to the fate of these reports. That would be good to know. The public needs to know. I know I cut my wife's salary by 35%. My mother fucked me, didn't I? But legal! And you tell your own, what about it? I also wonder if, at the time you ran the KPK, you made a separate decision on each case? For example, you get an application – Janez Janša rides a helicopter to Urska Báčovnik – and you say, "It sucks" and you throw it away. But there's got to be a special conclusion and so on. Did you – I said this case on purpose, but you did not consider it, and you had nothing to do with it – you dealt with it on a case-by-case basis and said, "it's not corruption," or did you say, "wow, tralling, 100 pieces, this is not corruption." So, I'm curious — have you dealt with each case individually? It's about that. Then we read to Mr. Klemenčič, what else? Mr Pratnik; I know that you are not directly responsible, that Commission is responsible, and the President of the State is responsible, that former, Mr Turk. But at some point you could say, "I'm sorry, sir does not meet the conditions, it's corruption or commission or Mr. Turk, I don't know who." That's what you could say. But in accordance with the law, you have also made it possible for the unlawful property benefit of Mr. Praprotenik, who sat there without the conditions required. We will no longer be parliamentary parties. Perhaps I have only one sub-question here that has not yet been raised: does it keep in mind that the investigation of the assets of the Presidents of Parliament's parties was first introduced against Mr Jankovic and no one else? Is that all I'm asking? Indeed, then you have extended this investigation to all the Presidents of the parliamentary parties, and we know the result. Perhaps you should explain to the public why you have extended to all the presidents of the parliamentary parties, is this a case or is there any other reason? I don't know. But I won't talk about it anymore because it's been said enough. We'll never get together at the Supreme Court. You could have acted, but you didn't. But I could. But it is absolutely your sin and violation of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption that you have not reported two companies. Pika, amen, I'm sure we don't have anything here. We could report her. We could report her. Your problem is also airline tickets. You've been studying for a year and a little bit about what 600 minus 100 is, whether it's corruption or not. But Brussels does not fly for 100 euros, at least not a normal and average citizen. You must have had a problem here. But I'm not talking about that loan because it doesn't even make sense anymore. On the committee, Mr Klemenčič said that he had received such a good loan because he had intervened by the then President of the Government, Janez Janša. Very interesting. That was his statement. Janša must have intervened so he could get a good loan. It's a joke. The guy's just fucking with the National Assembly. Just as Mr Klemenčič fucked a little from the National Assembly today, and he did not respect it. The Minister can fight anyone who has five minutes of time in this country. The minister could be anyone. But the messenger cannot be everyone; even the one who received the least votes among us had to go to the elections and have been elected by the citizens. But the minister can be anyone who has five minutes of time. That is why the Minister cannot treat any Member as he did today. Before you could listen to the truth, of course I must mention it. You mentioned my contractual relationship with the Faculty of Security and you were talking about 60,000 euros. You know, Minister, that's 400 and a few euros a month on average. I guess I make a lot of money at least among those who teach. This, however, has been forgotten to say that this is a period since I have been an official – since 2000, and then from 2004 onwards. In short, you tried to discredit me, but you failed. Then you said I was a hard-core LDS chief of staff. That's not true. The hard LDS, which you helped her with, threw me out, but I was the head of staff at the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the SKD, and that's true. You've read me 700 million, Mr. Klemenčič. You couldn't, but your secretary of state may have gotten some logs. Did I even sign something for you, you'll tell him if you whisper it to him, I don't know. I didn't do anything, okay. [[…]] You are making this clear to me — an act that was done during the war for Slovenia and two years after I had nothing to do with it. Because the police didn't pay the daily bills to the cops, they should have. And now you've put that on me. What do I have to do with this? Then I'll get you some credit from your old mom or maybe a key. He also bought the castle in Šmarje near Jelšah. Do you have anything to do with this? You've got nothing, and we're not reading it to you. And you're telling me things that, of course, have nothing to do with the subject we're talking about. See what else you were saying – that John Janša's office was provided for the employment of his daughter and his son, Mr Tank. Yeah, for God's sake, that cabinet was gone, then Borut Pahor. He had that cabinet, and it couldn't be mediated unless he intervened. Then say that, I don't know, but you said, "from Janshe's office." In short, the situation is such that I conclude, our attempt was clear and loud. The Independent KPK should investigate the matter. That's what we wanted and tried. So you said no. And his personnel are there, because they're cops themselves, because they're your colleagues. They would investigate, because most of them are from the police or from the sons and daughters of the police, which you have also set up there quite a lot. They'd be investigating. Yeah, you set them up a lot, of course. What do I do now? We don't have anything. They would've investigated you. We almost made a mistake, Mr. Tanko. I'm just kidding. But it is true that they would investigate it, and you did not allow them to investigate it. What do we now have to do — take this same document and write the interpolation so that we can do it again? Will it then work, coalition? Probably not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The order of pre-notified debaters is exhausted and the time foreseen for this point is spent. That's why I'm concluding the general [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Actually, it was exactly the right time, and it was six hours and fifteen minutes. Yes, they were procedural, yes, in fact you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Jože Tanko. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President, this way you will not send us away. The 23 minutes remaining unused from the parliamentary groups, and this time needs to be divided because the time for discussion has not yet passed. However, procedural issues are counted in the time quota, not everything, but they are not counted in the quota of the groups of Members, and I suggest that you release the division so that we can say something else because it is worth saying today. And the minister is obviously ready for this because he's been quiet all the time and he's been skilfully and conscientiously recording it, and now he's probably going to be able to answer something and argue what he's already said on the left and right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Procedural proposals shall be considered at the total time of the point. As a matter of fact, Article 67(2) of the Rules of Procedure laid down at the College a period of time for each point, which was, as I have stated, six hours of fifteen. The time-sharing system does not allow this now. I therefore conclude the general debate. Mr. Jože Tanko, please make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much. What, though, were we doing now for six hours and 26 hours if only six hours were available? Now we're nine minutes past that, and now you're saying that the 23 minutes left we're not going to share. Then we should have stopped the session sooner, if that's true what you said. If the meeting time is set for six hours and is so excessive, we cannot exceed it if it is limited.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u115	I can do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u116	Yes, these 23 minutes from the parliamentary groups, I don't know, Desusa, SD, United Left, Non-aligned Members should be divided, as has always been the case so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u117	Procedural proposal by Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u118	Look, we've got – President, I hope that you too have received – a guidance on what to do in such a case. It came by e-mail. When the time is running out, and the time for division is now, let's all sign up, so to speak. According to the old, the proposaler raised his hand, but now we have a new instruction that the proposer and the minister do not need to raise their hand, but apply equally with the pressure on the device here, on this speaker. However, regardless of how the minister and the proposer applied, these two get the word as last and last. That's what you sent us. And now I don't understand why not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u119	The professional services remind me once again that time-sharing simply does not allow the system. Because all the debaters who wanted it got it. This is said to be true if the Group of Non-Aligned Members, an unrelated Member, then we have NSI, SD spending their time, we would indeed be in red numbers, as shown on the screen. They all did. There's no time-sharing. With this, please, Mr. Jože Tanko. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u120	Thank you, ma'am. Anyway, if you can't electronically divide it as it's done so far, give it as they used to do: take it, count how many hands it is, and add up the time. It's quite simple. They did so for so long, not long ago — if the announced time of the parliamentary groups had not been spent, he split up among those who wanted to speak further in the general debates. That's always been the case. And probably no new directive can fix that, because that's the rule of service.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u121	Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I'm sorry, I'm consulting professional services on what to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u122	Look, now I want to help you so you don't think I'm gonna work [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u123	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u124	If the technique does not allow this to be done by the Rules of Procedure, please state that this is the case. But then we need to know that the technique doesn't allow, and the technique needs to be corrected. But if that's your decision, then it's not right. In fact, if there is still time for discussion, we need to share it in accordance with the rules of procedure. We can agree to stop talking, and I'm fine, you know, but we can agree to raise our hands if the technique doesn't allow. But if there's no more time, then there's another question. I'm the only one who thinks there's still time, as far as I can see. But if the technique screws up or I know what, then the technique needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally? Here you go. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much. It would be best just to read the first paragraph of Article 71, which is very clear. "If the debate has not yet been debated, when the order of the pre-notified debaters is exhausted, the chairman will ask whether anyone else wants to discuss it. The debates of those who apply for this call may be limited by the chairman for a certain period of time within the time available for discussion." That's all we've got left. "When the chairman finds that the time set for the debate has passed or that there are no more notations to the debate, he shall conclude the debate." But time hasn't run out yet, so you need to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u127	Okay, actually, I don't have any reservations about sharing that time, 23 minutes, by asking me to raise your arms for 23 minutes, please? [[…]] [[…]] Can I open the list? They're warning me to open the list. So I'm asking you to apply for the 23 minutes we have left. Here you go. I'm asking you to sign up. The government also applies if it wants to discuss it. Yeah, that's the problem now. [[…]] Actually, there's 11 reported, 23, two minutes. Every debater has two minutes of time. What's the problem, sir? [[…]] Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u128	We have to respect the Rules of Procedure, and we have to respect what we've got. It's 11 registered now. If anyone wants to check out, check out, because then you'll have an easier job, and you'll say, only the minister and I'm because everyone's gonna check out.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u129	We'll see.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u130	But if they don't check out, there's another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u131	I can't predict that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u132	It's in the instructions we got. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u133	But I don't assume that because I'm not actually the first to have the word Private Shergan. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] . The other one has Mr. Sasha Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I'm out of the debate, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u136	And I'm not checking out.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u138	There is only one matter concerning these political – and we have already had here that we are a court, but I do not know what all – of these different debates; I would point out only one thing, and this is as follows: that the law does not prohibit you from addressing it directly to the competent Commission to prevent corruption in order to speak about it. All the time you claim that the purpose of this and only the purpose of this should be to assess it somehow with them who are also responsible for it. If that were the case, then we wouldn't be sitting on a committee yesterday, and today we're here in the National Assembly, but we'd be preparing an initiative, and we'd refer it to this committee. This Commission would define itself, put it into its work plan and do so. I think that with that I was present at that meeting yesterday, I voted against your decision just for that reason because I didn't see any need for it. [[…]] And if you've assessed this, this is what you're defending, it's saying, this position of yours – I respect the fact that you see things like this, I have no problem with it, but if this is your project, you can take it as your project to the end. You won't have my support on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u140	Good evening. Yeah, there was a lot of noise at the time. We probably have this honor and the possibility of always having a double hearing and discussion, so I believe that the repetitiomate studio is. But no matter what, Mr Klemenčič was, if you want or don't want, an eminent face, a face that showed the KPK and that fight against corruption. How do you want to look at it or look for mistakes; we will all find faults and irregularities, but if we want to systematically destroy every matter and every institution, then it is clear only one way – that in no way will this institution ever live in Slovenia, because we will always look for a black hole, we will always look for what is wrong and not what is positive. And if we look now at this ministry that he took over; as far as I know, there were 12 laws and 8 sub-laws made in some way to make it better. From this place, I can only appeal to both the opposition and us working together with the minister to improve the work and the courts and the prosecutions and to take steps to continue the fight against corruption and everything else. But this is our common thing, not that we try to discredit each person first and then look for all the negatives, instead of looking for positive things and trying to do creatively forward, to really put this Slovenia into one tough whole, where respect for order and law is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Liljana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. It is perfectly legitimate for the opposition to propose such a decision, but I certainly do not think it can bear all the responsibilities to the National Assembly, but it can do so on its own. Interestingly, they say that if they do, and if they are consistent in all cases, it is both for our Members and, of course, for their own It will be very interesting, because this will be real evidence if they are really fighting corruption. [[...]] That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening to all! I thought we'd be gone by now, but good, if this goes on. I'm not a lawyer, but I've been listening to some lawyers here today. It was an interesting debate, so I think lawyers from the coalition, our group, but I also heard a few things from the opposition. But I've heard a lot of times about how they kind of peeled onions. The way you'll understand it is different. It is interesting, however, that Nova Slovenija also applied for this meeting, and they left a long time ago; apparently they had nothing to report to the minister. I would say so; Mr Goran Klemenčič was President of the Anti-Corruption Commission for a long time, and I must say that I have not been in politics at the time and I have listened very much to him. We also loved listening to him at home, and there we discussed in the village with them, and I am glad that he somehow came and became Minister. Believe me — if he realized that he had some things that were not clean when the president was anti-corruption, he would certainly not have applied for a minister. He knows these things very well, and he wouldn't report himself to the minister, so I'll say it again because he knows things. And once again, we all feel so innocent in here and so on, I'd say, let's throw [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] But when he is truly innocent here, let him put a stone in him, as it used to be in the Bible. [[…]] We will, of course, have to return to those times and perhaps make order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor. A little more, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Hello, everybody! I too am joining the opinion of my colleague Ivan Škodnik, or I am not a lawyer. If nothing else, tonight is one great experience. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u147	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u148	for the future. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry, Minister, but I'm still going to say something on the subject of this loan. I know you don't like it, but I did, too. You won't believe it. That's when you took the credit. And you won't believe that I have a very similar interest rate in there, but that I got 50% more credit than real estate is worth. If you believe it or not. I believe that you have your channels, that you will get this contract right away, and give it to yourself, and look inside, that we will finally stop talking about it and deceive people so that it cannot be done. We have a colleague there — I'm sorry she didn't sign up for the word or talk about how the loans were then distributed and for what values and so on. Because what you're saying just doesn't hold. Second thing; if you want to report anyone to KPK, please report him, you don't need us to do this. Even less so, you need to assess why we were against a decision, what are the reasons for it. This is certainly not in your jurisdiction to explain now what it means if we're in favour or what it means if we're against it. By no means will we support such receptions in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State Darko Stare has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I will take advantage of the latest implementation by Mr Jožet Tank to show you how impossible it is to satisfy or convince you or to do what you expect. And then use this to argue that, in this case, the Goran Klemenčič Anti-Corruption Commission is acting unlawfully because it provides an asset benefit to all those involved in the financial hole. You've read Article 14 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation before. This provision refers to judicial authorities, public administrations, public authorities. There is no independent state authority anywhere, which is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. The Commission also referred this to the Commission of Mr Pogačnik and justified why it is not possible to provide bank secrecy in a legal manner. However, under the leadership of Goran Klemenčič, the Commission made available to the Commission all possible information and documents which were not contrary to the law. And this is an example of how you are essentially using a tool that is primarily yours – the parliamentary inquiry is yours – and how you are essentially interpreting the law and expecting us, officials, officials, to act unlawfully in order to meet your needs or questions. And then use this to claim that we are acting corruptly or unlawfully. That's absurd! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u153	Thank you very much. So I conclude the general debate. Sir, yes, yes, I'm sorry, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u154	I already thought that the Rules of Procedure would not be respected because the Government had one vote, not ten, so it was used by the Secretary of State. Okay, we're in the middle of something. To conclude, I would like to say something to you, Mr Klemenčič. Do you know what your problem is? Your problem is you're selling yourself as an expert, but you're really a politician. It's been there all along. With me, the situation is clear; I have been in politics since 1999. About that time, I noticed that you were on the left side of the political option, which is your legitimate right. However, until you entered Mrs Kresalov's government, you sold yourself as an expert and then you sold yourself as an expert. By the way, your Secretary of State was selling himself to me as an expert back in 2006, and now I see he's a politician. But if you are once in politics, then be a politician! Tell the public you're a politician. Tell me you're a politician, you're a person, not to say you're an expert. Because you, in the image of the head of the KPK, received the immense sympathy of the Slovenian nation as the first anti-corruption fighter, and then, what, the face of the year all that. But it's not true, but you're a politician who also has some kind of corrupt attitude. We just listed the 15th. That's the problem, and that's your problem. Make up your mind, now you can't make up your mind, now you're done, you're done now. You're a politician now, definitely. And don't sell yourself for an expert anymore. And that's the problem. But I'm not gonna teach you a lot about other manners and norms, because it's out of the question. Say, I call you too, and you're 15 years younger than me, but I'm Vinko to you. But it's a matter of your culture, it's something else, and let's get it over with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-09-SDZ7-Izredna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. So now I am really concluding a general debate on the proposal for a decision. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a decision has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Good night.
