ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr László Göncz, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Janez Janša, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Franz Ly, mag. Xenia Root Kramar, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Branko Grimes, Mrs. Jelka Godec, Mr. Daniel Krivec, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mr Primož Hainz. I invited representatives of the Council of State and representatives of the Government to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 17 July 2015 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S FOR A REGULAR DECISION ON THE LAW ON Tax INQUIRY OF ACCOUNTS At its 15th extraordinary meeting on 17 July 2015, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the Law on tax clearance of accounts. In order to explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Alojz Kovška.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u2	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly explain the request of the State Council that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Law on tax clearance of accounts. In our view, when deciding on the introduction of tax warehouses, it has not been sufficiently satisfactory to answer the fundamental question, namely whether the costs of introducing the new system outweigh the expected benefits. Tax collection costs must be as low as possible for both the tax authority and taxpayers. The calculation and payment of taxes to taxpayers must not result in high additional costs. In the search for appropriate solutions to combat the grey economy, the State has already introduced a solution in the form of so-called virtual tax receipts for taxpayers whose activity poses the highest risk of avoiding payment of tax liabilities. The results of this measure have not yet been properly evaluated, but a new system is already in place for all taxpayers. The expert opinions on the usefulness of the introduction of tax registers are very different and individual solutions in countries with such arrangements are not fully applicable in our tax system. It turns out that the applicant has taken over the Croatian tax system and has not taken up the exceptions provided for by this Croatian system, for example, by taking account of the size of the economic operator. Other successful and cheaper systems have also been ignored, established in Sweden and in other countries of the European Union, where tax credits have been introduced mainly and only for risky cash activities. The applicant's explanations regarding the choice of technical equipment, technical solutions and the scope of the debtors are not satisfactory. The proposaler’s claim that the tax collection model chosen is the most cost-effective, but also the most effective in terms of control, can be misleading, since the applicant himself states that only two basic models have been examined. In addition, at the time of the adoption of the law, no technical specifications of hardware and software have been published at all which will have to be purchased by the debtors by the end of 2015, which prevents them from having a real and complete cost assessment. The applicant shall define as a fundamental objective which he wishes to pursue by law, the introduction of a system that allows for transparent and reliable recording of cash traffic, the prevention of tax evasion and VAT fraud, the reduction of the scope of the grey economy and the additional collection of data for the purposes of monitoring the actual work of natural persons and the payment of contributions and revenues from this work. Virtual tax warehouses fully enable this objective to be achieved, and the applicant does not deny it, but argues that the new system will facilitate the work of the supervisory authorities. Therefore, tax collectors do not in any way reduce the scope of the grey economy in that most intensive work, that is, when the taxpayers do not at all exhibit accounts. Neither do tax collectors solve the problem of the provision of services and the sale of goods by completely illegal entities, so to speak, work and trade in black. The proposaler’s argument that the decommissioning of the supervisory authorities following the introduction of the tax register makes it possible to control the grey foxes more closely, in fact, does not have a real basis, since the applicant has not yet begun to prepare appropriate amendments to the legislation in the field of black work. However, the decommissioning of the supervisory authorities cannot be a fundamental reason for the imposition of the tax burden on the taxpayers even in cases where there are no significant improvements and results to be expected. The introduction of tax receipts as a fiscal measure must therefore be based on measurable positive effects and, as previously stated, a measure of virtual tax warehouses has been introduced in Slovenia and the effects of which are not yet quite known and will be dispersed in the light of the introduction of the new measure. It will therefore be difficult to determine how much the measure actually affected the reduction of the grey economy and the amount of VAT collected. Of course, the logical consequence of the measure is to increase the amount of VAT collected, but mainly due to the purchase of hardware and software by the debtors and the increased volume of economic activity, as shown by the statistics. Therefore, the introduction of tax warehouses entails a disproportionate cost burden for all debtors, while this measure is not expected in individual cases to increase the tax inflows since the business of these entities does not allow the concealment of the invoices issued so far. The actual costs of purchasing equipment cannot be calculated at all since technical specifications for equipment have not yet been published. In addition to the initial cost of purchasing technical software, taxpayers are also subject to a permanent burden on the maintenance and upgrading of this equipment and individual debtors will be in a worse position because they will have to obtain more pieces of this equipment because of the nature of the work. So the state obviously wants to make order in the tax area. The introduction of tax registers may be one of the measures, but it is not the first and fundamental one, since tax collectors do not in any way address the problem of not issuing invoices, which is the main problem of the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u3	The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 34th emergency meeting today, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on tax clearance of accounts submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, which it adopted at its 10th session. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee was given the request of the State Council, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the opinion of the Government. The meeting was attended by a representative of the Council of State, a minister responsible for finance with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the reasons for the request for re-decision on the law in question and, first of all, stressed that in the introduction of such a law, the answer to the question whether the costs of the introduction outweighed the expected benefits, which is undoubtedly a political domain. In addition, concerns are raised regarding the achievement of the objectives set both in the safe and transparent recording of cash traffic, the prevention of tax evasion and fraud, the reduction of the grey economy, the acquisition of data for the purposes of monitoring the actual work of natural persons, the payment of contributions and income from work, and the facilitation of the work of supervisory authorities. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the State Council’s arguments in the request for re-decision relate to questions related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legal regime, which are of a substantive nature, and therefore has not been defined until those reasons and thus to the request of the State Council. In a presentation of the Government's opinion and in response to some of the views of the State Council, the Minister of Finance explained to the Committee that the Government supports the objectives of the law and briefly presented the individual reasons why the Government fully rejects the statement of the State Council. In essence, he expressed disagreement with two arguments, namely that the law does not eliminate the grey economy or that it is high costs, which the Government is completely rejecting. In the discussion, the proponents reiterated their position that the scope of the grey economy would not be able to resist the re-decision requirements as in previous proceedings, since those who do not actually have registered activities and the latter do not issue invoices will not be able to resist the tax burden on all others, in particular small taxpayers. The representatives of the coalition, however, reiterated their support for the text before them and concluded that it was undoubtedly an important contribution to financial discipline in the fight against the grey economy, which in a number of planned parallel economic measures is undoubtedly an important step towards contributing to positive results across the tax and economic sphere. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an opinion by 11 votes to 4 with a majority of its members that the Law on tax clearance of accounts was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u5	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as the bill's proponent to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Law on tax clearance of accounts is only one of a number of measures already proposed by the Government in the fight against the grey economy. It is a follow-up measure to introduce virtual tax warehouses that prevent data modification and deletion and without audit trail introduced by 1. Seven. 2013 and for the introduction of the bound account introduced by 31. This year's 1st. We would like to point out that activities in the area of control and awareness raising of taxpayers, such as awareness of young people, action Turn on reason, take account, and so forth and will continue. The project against the grey economy, however, is a government project covering a number of sectoral and horizontal measures. The basic objective of the law is to reduce the grey economy and prevent tax evasion and fraud, to establish a fair distribution of tax burdens between taxpayers and to prevent unfair competition on the market for tax evasion. Legal tax receipts in the form of a real-time tax clearance procedure are the solution that is most cost-effective for the debtor. They do not require the replacement of the existing information equipment of the debtors, but only its software upgrade. However, those not yet using electronic invoices will have access to user-friendly technological solutions under competitive conditions, as the competition law does not restrict software or hardware to any extent. The purchase of equipment may be subject to a 40 % investment relief which, if the taxable person does not have a tax base in the year of purchase, for example, has a tax loss, can be carried over in the next five tax periods, and a 50 % depreciation rate. The law lays down the obligation to certify cash accounts for all debtors equally, irrespective of the activity or other circumstances of each group of issuers, but the law provides for a two-year transitional period of up to 31. 12. 2017, in which it will be possible for the debtors, especially the smaller ones, to decide freely whether to use an electronic device with established electronic connection to the Financial Administration or the bound accounts, and to gradually switch to an electronic account validation system. With a view to simplifying and reducing the costs of implementing the prescribed procedure for small business operators during the transitional period and during the period after 31. 12. 2017, when the invoices for an electronic device are issued, the debtors will be allowed to issue invoices and to carry out the clearance procedure via a free application on the e-tax portal. E-tax liabilities have already been well-known since they have also been used for years to pay bills in the field of corporate income tax, income tax and VAT. In addition, the new Income Act abolishes the obligation to keep business books for a large part of farmers and will not be subject to the obligation to tax confirmation of accounts. On the other hand, the new process of tax clearance of accounts will allow Furs to carry out risk analyses of debtors, which in this way will more effectively organise control, only in the case of risk debtors. The next objective pursued by the Law on tax clearance of accounts is to effectively control the actual extent of work performed by a natural person and thus the correctness of taxes and contributions from employment and work. With the 18th August of last year, the Financial Administration has already taken over the tasks of overseeing work and employment on the line. In 2014, it carried out 4 000 847 controls and fined EUR 282 000 932 in this area, and in the first half of this year it carried out 5 000 656 controls and issued EUR 905,000 779 fines. On the basis of the newly obtained data under the Law on tax clearance of accounts, the effectiveness of control over this area will be further increased. Dear Members and Members! In view of all the above, I propose that, when re-decision is taken, the Law on tax clearance of accounts be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, for which Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague, representative of the Council of State and representatives of the Government, Minister of Finance! At today’s extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at the request of the Council of State, we are again deciding on the Law on tax clearance of accounts. Today's veto is actually a veto on costs and benefits, transparency and democracy. First, a few words about the costs and benefits of transparency. This is directly addressed by the new legislative initiative on the introduction of so-called tax registers. On the basis of the various types of expert and, in particular, inspection of the advantages of this law, we have already confirmed it in the National Assembly for the first time with the conviction that the tax measure reduces the problem of not issuing or even closing accounts, thus the grey economy or the unjustifiable enrichment of those economic operators in the country where such activities are used. The new legislation thus ensures, in particular, the establishment of a more fair tax system, a more stable and predictable public finances, and thus more or less directly higher, in particular on the criteria of fairness of the justified inflow of budgetary resources and clear rules for the start-up of the economy under the same conditions for all. We are therefore talking here about the importance and responsibility of paying taxes and thus on tax culture. Avoiding paying taxes in other words bringing state and nationals around must have zero tolerance. We carry such acts around ourselves and society. We believe that the adoption of this law will properly monitor and prevent such attempts. Now let me have a few more words or reflections on the cost and benefits of democracy. Rare parliamentary democratic systems in the world have as democratically consensual a system of mutual control mechanisms and balances within parliamentary action as already enshrined in the Constitution by the system of Slovenia. The Council of State as a representative of a wide variety in our system of important interest groups has the constitutional competence to submit a request for a re-decision on the adoption of any law adopted by the National Assembly if the Council of State considers that their interests — not individual, but more of them — have been overlooked in the political decision-making process in the National Assembly. The bill on tax clearance of accounts was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with coalition and also opposition support, with 48 votes in favour and 30 against and 60% in favour of the vote of 89% of all Members present. In other words, 53% of all members of the National Assembly voted in favour of the law. The results of each individual Member's vote shall be made publicly available and visible. A week after the adoption of the law in the National Assembly, the Council of State voted veto to the law with 15 votes in favour, 13 against and one abstention. In other words, 37.5% of all members of the State Council voted in favour of this veto – a voting system that does not make public the distribution of the votes of those 51% of the state councillors who were present at the said meeting. In the SMC Group, we have taken our decision to support the law on the basis of expert assessments and views of different groups on the principles of equal treatment of all, on the principles of fair and transparent tax and economic culture. So, in respect of the wider consensus of the various and not just a few partial interests in our society. For all the past and now mentioned reasons, of course, we will re-vote the adoption of the law. We believe that with this we will do our part of parliamentary competence in a responsible manner, taking into account the best possible conditions for the fair and good functioning of the various groups involved in the Slovenian economy, from economic operators to users of their services and finally the countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representative of the Council of State and distinguished ministerial team! The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the introduction of tax registers has not changed since the first consideration of the bill: we oppose tax rebates. We advocate a fair tax system and condemn the grey economy and the black work, but we believe that the proposed introduction of the tax box will not incur the key; we will not get those who do not issue the invoices, those who do not have registered activities and represent a real problem in society, because they do not pay taxes and are truly unfair to all who do their business. The country already has a huge number of mechanisms and institutions that identify and sanction the grey economy and black work. From 1 July 2013, we have virtual tax receipts that prevent the clearing of accounts. As of the beginning of this year, all those who operate in cash without an appropriate computer program must have an account book. It is indeed important to ask whether the state does not already have sufficient measures available today to enable it to overwhelm the grey economy and black work. Taxation is already a third intervention by the State in that area over a period of two years. We are asking ourselves about the urgency of this measure, the urgency in terms of whether the law's objective indeed pursued is to reduce the grey economy and work in black, cannot be achieved by a lighter measure or even by making better use of the measures already put in place. In its opinion, the government itself notes that virtual tax receipts produce results, but the results of controls show that some debtors are still using programmes that enable transport to be adjusted. So why not make better use of the measures already put in place, for example by improving the working processes of the state authorities or simply by changing the powers of the authorities in charge of these areas? In doing so, we may find that the State authorities may be responsible for the situation in the field of the grey economy with their own rigidity in exercising their powers. On the ground, the question is also whether the consequences that will arise in particular for micro and small enterprises at the time of the introduction of tax cans are proportionate to the value of the objectives pursued or the benefits pursued by the State. It is estimated that tax revenues from tax receipts amounting to EUR 50 to 100 million are increasing and, on the other hand, we know that the introduction of tax warehouses will bring us very close to the country's lower margin, only that this cost will go to the taxpayers' account. It is important that you do not talk about the percentage of reduction in the grey economy and working in black. This should be the key, and this percentage, unfortunately, you didn't say. We are also justifiably asking whether, in particular, micro and small enterprises, there will be 80,000 taxpayers, an additional cost of introducing the tax box, as well as upgrades and maintenance of software. With this measure, we will be most affected by those companies that are already fighting on the market for their existence, but are ensuring the survival of many families. It is these small entrepreneurs who will be most affected by this measure, and they certainly have not affected our public finances. Regrettably, the imposition of the tax register will also result in the cessation of any business activity by one of the entrepreneurs. The problem is also certainly the uneven development of Slovenia. We still have areas where there is no internet connection or coverage is extremely poor. Although this option has been foreseen by the proposer and, for these cases, the undertaking will have to prove that it is not possible to establish an electronic connection with the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, as we also know that the debtor will have to obtain a certificate from the mobile operator first, only then will it be issued with the Agency's certificate on the basis of this. Would it not be right to provide first Internet coverage across the entire territory of Slovenia? Or at least, as we proposed with our amendment, the Financial Administration itself would obtain such a certificate. With the proposed measure, the introduction of the tax box will not affect the grey economy, as the tax box will not solve the problem of not issuing the invoices but will create an additional financial and administrative burden, particularly for our small economy. Therefore, we oppose the proposed Law on tax clearance of accounts in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u11	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! While the Council of State, with a procrastination veto on the Law on the Tax attestation of Accounts, called for a re-decision on that provision, we decided in the Desus Group that our position would not be changed until the initial decision was taken. We have been in our parliamentary group since the very beginning in a firm position to support the introduction of tax registers in the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that the introduction of these will have significantly more positive effects than possible negative effects. At the same time, let me remind you that the time frame for the introduction of the law already exists, precisely because the competent ministry has listened to practically all the public's professional arguments and has taken into account most of the comments made during the public debate. In Desus, we see the introduction of this law as a complementary measure in the area of comprehensive regulation of the labour market and the establishment of a more effective payment discipline. In most cases they get involved in laws that are not particularly popular for at least a part of the population. It must be admitted that some of us would not be happy to accept a solution that should also contribute to the state treasury. However, there will be no confusion, despite the additional costs of introducing the new system, it will allow traceability and effective tax collection and consequently lower tax evasion, thereby higher tax revenues; in one word, greater payment discipline, less grey economy and a fairer tax burden. In no way do we see tax evasion as an unincentived business environment or an additional burden on an individual. The fact is that we all want more effective collection of public benefits. It is also necessary to contribute to the state treasury, but not only to take it from it when necessary. The indications of the additional financial and administrative burden of the debtors do not take into account the possibilities and choices afforded by the law. At the moment, there are quite a few options: exemption for mass billing under this Act, exemptions under the Value Added Tax Act, tax exemptions for investments or purchase of equipment, transitional period for introduction, free application for all those issuing a small number of invoices, and could also be listed. In our Group of Members, we believe that it is also imperative to raise the tax culture of all stakeholders. A change of mentality remains a problem that we consider to be an additional effort. After all, it is supposed to be a very simple everyday process, which is supposed to be considered self-evident in practice. Unfortunately, data on the grey economy suggests that fair practices so far have not always been possible to pursue. That is why, in Desus, we want to see as many taxpayers as possible using tax bills and to be able to live in practice as soon as possible. It is only in this way that we can avoid speculation about the possible ineffective consequences. In the general debate, there were quite a few concerns about the punishment of customers in the event that they did not save their accounts. In the course of the legislative procedure, the level of the penalty has decreased significantly and the customer must keep the account only directly after leaving the business space. In our view, the buyer is an equal factor that can greatly contribute to faster and better quality control or the fight against the grey economy. Finally, it is the exercise of his rights to, for example, complaints in the event of dissatisfaction with the product purchased or with the service performed. With all this, we expect those who will watch over the implementation of the legislation to be primarily a warning, not a punishment, because it is crucial to raise awareness of all stakeholders in the process, for the so-called thought process in people's heads, not to punish end-users. Your Honor! In the Desus Group, we believe that the law also follows the objective of establishing a tax environment in this re-decision phase, which will at the same time allow for a fair distribution of the tax burden and greater financial discipline, so all Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u14	Thank you, President. Dear representatives of the Council of State, Government, distinguished colleague, dear colleagues! Social Democrats understand the fears and doubts arising from the introduction of so-called tax registers. Every news is about ghosts. I must add, tax avoidance and the grey economy are a major problem in Slovenia. Any hidden or unpaid tax has implications for the state budget, means additional pressure on everyone else to pay for the standards we expect. That is why we also report in re-decision that we support the Law on tax clearance of accounts, because we see it as one of the most important measures against the grey economy. The tax clearance of the accounts will allow the Financial Administration to focus on the control of those debtors where the data will show that the review is necessary. At the time of drafting the law, we had our own concerns about the implementation of the law, but we removed them in dialogue because we believe that the key obstacles have been removed. Where traceability is ensured, such as municipal services, exceptions are introduced so that costs are not passed on to consumers. Since the original version, the preferred provisions governing the inability of an electronic connection to demonstrate that this procedure will be free of charge for the debtor. At the same time, we must insist that we need tax receipts everywhere where there is a possibility of a grey economy. It was ensured that the taxpayers could cover around 90% of the costs of their introduction through tax relief and depreciation. There has been a lot of controversy about the definition of cash payments, but let's think about it, the pressure on the introduction of tax registers was mainly due to hospitality. How else would we increase their costs if we allowed them not to confirm card payments with the Financial Administration? How many tax avoidances would result in such a half-measure? There have also been many questions about punishing customers who do not have an account. We are also opposed to punishing consumers, but we believe that the custom of issuing accounts will develop even if the customer requires it. Here we appeal to the Financial Administration not to abuse the powers given, but mainly to warn the buyers and motivate them in other ways that are regulated by this law. However, we believe that we must all take part in the effort to pay taxes and to make a fair contribution to the common fund. Social Democrats support all further measures in the fight against the grey economy and tax evasion. we also support the Law on tax clearance of accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u15	As the last position will be presented by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister of State, Mr. Aloise Kovšca, distinguished representatives of the Government, dear colleague and colleague! In Novi Slovenija, the so-called Law on Tax Retails, as well as the popular use of the Law on Tax attestation of Accounts, we are virtually opposed to the whole process of enacting the law. We have the same position now that we are again deciding on it on the basis of the veto of the State Council. We will therefore renegotiate the law. Let us start by saying that the Members of our Members' Group, New Slovenia's New Slovenia Group, in the debate on the adoption of the law, have raised almost the same arguments, concerns and warnings against the introduction of tax warehouses, as presented by the Council of State at the time of the vote on this law. Unfortunately, however, the coalition is deaf for all our warnings, for all the warnings of the opposition and also for the deaf for the opposition's amendments tabled. In our view, such an important law, which covers such a wide range of commitments, should be adopted with the widest possible political consensus and with the greatest possible agreement of the other stakeholders. In this regard we mean the representative association of economic operators, this is the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry. etc. Most of these associations, the exception being the Chamber of Commerce, objected to the introduction of tax registers. The basic argument of these associations was: tax rebates bring an additional administrative burden, and in particular a financial burden on economic operators. If the ruling coalition has already decided on such a measure, it should itself provide and finance the purchase of the necessary hardware and software. The additional control that the State wants to finance itself is as much financed as it already is through the Financial Administration and the Inspection. Let us repeat the Christian Democrats repeatedly: the country will be pulled out of the crisis only by the economy and not by politics. However, the policy is one which must create a favourable and stable business environment where the economy can operate, plan development and generate added value. What is the message of the government coalition when introducing a tax box measure that is opposed to most economies? Of course, this measure does not improve the business environment, does not burden the economy and will not bring any new jobs. The communication is that all economic operators are unfair, do not issue invoices and deduct taxes and therefore need to be subject to additional tax supervision by the State. Thus, the initial mistrust of economic policy weakens the economy. According to Christian Democrats, most economic operators are honest, regularly pay taxes and contributions, and because of a handful of unfair entrepreneurs, we must not punish everyone. The punishment must always come only to those who deserve it — but not to the law of the forestland! The introduction of tax receipts is by no means a measure against the grey economy, as the coalition has enshrined in its coalition agreement. On the contrary, this measure will increase the share of the grey economy earlier than it decreases. If we look at smaller business entities that have only a few hundred or several thousand euros of annual transport, including art craft creators, such as tractors and other smaller entities, shoemakers, key manufacturers, suppliers of complementary activities on farms and so on. We must not forget that the burden of the economic crisis has already been greatly affected by these smaller entrants. For these smaller taxpayers, the cost of purchasing and maintaining equipment for the tax box will be so high that they will not be paid or will simply not be able to manage it. Many of them will certainly decide to shut down their activities. Some will go to the list of recipients of social assistance and others to the grey economy. On the other hand, tax collectors will not reach, as it is said, slumbers, which have not yet paid taxes or contributions to the State and have transferred unfair competition to craftsmen. I'm concluding. The introduction of the tax registers is merely an unnecessary additional burden for the economy and Members of the New Slovenia Group, as has already been said, we will also vote against the re-vote on the Law on tax clearance of invoices.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-20-SDZ7-Izredna-17.ana.u17	We have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to a re-decision on the Law on tax clearance of accounts. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
