ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs Erika Dekleva from 12.30 p.m. on, Mrs Anita Koleš from 12.30 p.m. on, mag. Ms. Eva Irgle, Mrs. Janja Sluga by 6 p.m., Mrs. Vesna Vervega, Mr. Igor Zorčič by 12 p.m., Mr. Andrej Chus, Mr. Janez Janša, Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 3 p.m. and Mr. Marjan Dolinšek from 16 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, Mag. Mr. Andrejo Poje, representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, as representative of the 5 thousand elections and voters on agenda 34, representative of the State Council on agenda 37, Mrs. Duško Godina, acting director of the Energy Agency, as representative of the proposer on agenda 40, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic and representative of the Council on agenda 42nd, and representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 9 November 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 13th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written applications for 39 questions from the Member States. Under this item, today the President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, will answer the three questions of the opposition's MEPs and members of the ruling coalition. Ministers and ministers will answer questions from Members of Parliament and Members on Tuesday, 24. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government shall answer the question within 5 minutes. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request an additional reply but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government without discussion. On the bench, you received a review of questions sent and initiatives not answered within the deadline. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first question will be posed to the Prime Minister of the Government by a mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much. In the beginning, allow me to express my heartfelt condolences to the French nation on Friday’s sad events. All I can say is we're Slovenians with you. For some time now, our country has been in employment as a migrant crisis, and I am aware that the scope of the migrant crisis and the problems associated with this crisis have become a major part of it, if not a whole government. Taking into account the scale of the crisis, this is somehow logical. Of course, it is also the duty of the ruling coalition to manage and actively resolve the crisis. First because of our citizens and our citizens, and also because of the refugees. Of course, Mr President, this is no reason for all the other things in our country to stop. Here I am thinking mainly of the lack of a vision of measures and many of the reforms announced. Today, at the end of 2015, a year and a half after the start of your government, we do not have short-term measures, but only long-term measures, not in the field of health, culture, nor in the field of economy, nor do you support some of the major infrastructure projects that are needed. In view of the budget we will be dealing with today after this point has been considered, I regret that the two years we have lost are ahead of us. It is true, however, that there is one area where you are active and quick to act, in the shadow of the migrant crisis, you are doing well from the time of your human resources action. The appointment of the new SDH administration was very quick for us, as it seems, but you have a very well thought-out move. You took advantage of the migrant crisis and carried out things in its shadow that were unacceptable. To publish an invitation for one member of the board, then on this basis to name as a whole a new administration – is this ethical and in line with the high standards you have advocated? Even today, we do not know the real reasons for such a brilliant action to replace SDH leadership. Of course, politics has the power to take matters into its own hands, even at SDH, as you have done. It is surprising to me, Madam President, that you, too, who promised high standards, morals and ethics to people before the elections, have shown so quickly who runs the government in Slovenia. In the light of the circumstances of the last appointment of the SDH administration, Mr President, I ask you: Is it really impossible in our country to run a government without connections to the lobby?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u3	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Your Honor. First of all, let me very firmly reject yours, I would say, even an unworthy claim that we took advantage of the migrant crisis, that we carried out some of the human resources changes. I will further explain that the changes you have in mind have not been carried out by the government at all, but by the SDH control council. However, to take advantage of the migrant crisis and, under it, as I would say, to carry out some unworthy things with their coats, I absolutely reject that. I think it is also clear that there is no evidence, fact or anything and that the thing would be completely discarded if we did something like this. Our government, I think the coalition, too, and I hope no one will do that. You're suggesting that we, who we are, the government probably think we made a replacement in the Slovenian state holding company. I have to say I can only say no. The claim is obviously pointless, as you know well by itself, the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, in accordance with its competences, is completely autonomous in accordance with the procedures it has carried out, and these procedures have taken some time, with the assistance of professional commissions which have checked many candidates, put them in a narrower choice, in short, the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding has appointed the new SDH administration under such a procedure in accordance with its competence. He selected competent experts who went through the appropriate checks, which was also clearly examined by the commissions. The government has nothing to do with this procedure. It is precisely our government that is making the most of its efforts to respect such provisions of the law and we want to depoliticise such procedures. This has happened too much in recent times, and this has also led to the adoption of the State Holding Act to remove policy from this. It is true, however, that the government appointed overseers this year who made that decision. This is the responsibility of the Government as the SDH Assembly, and we have also performed this task in accordance with the law in a very responsible manner with the help of a professional commission, which no one is likely to be able to manifest any bias, dependence. Look at the composition of the commission that the government has proposed a narrower choice. The government, however, chose candidates from this narrower election who were highly competent. That is why the government trusts this SDH supervisory council, and trusts the process that has been carried out. This procedure took longer, not as some have reported, to be carried out at a short meeting. It was just one of the meetings, and things have been going on for a long time. This month or more has been enough time for everyone to observe these procedures from a distance as well as the Government. To finish the answer to that question. It is quite obvious that this was not about political recruitment. The government has not entered this area, however, if it turns out that any of the new members of the administration, who are otherwise highly competent people by professional references, would prove that this choice would be misleading anywhere, it is wrong that the procedure has been breached if any fact or evidence is available here, the Government will act and will question the supervisors who conducted the procedure. In all the unknown media reporting, for two weeks I heard a blow, I closely monitored all the statements made by the media, commentators, journalists, no one brought any fact to prove that anything illegal or gravely wrong was done. So for once, I have no reason to question this choice as Prime Minister. And as it is said, the supervisory board is highly competent and we can trust it. But in your opinion, somehow in our country, everything stops that the government doesn't have a vision, but it's obviously pointless. Our country is doing well, and it's getting better. Of course, we are far from the goal we have set ourselves, but we are going in this direction with determination. Ratings are growing. In the last year, when this government is in action, we have grown all ratings, the return on bonds has dropped, we have increased on the competitiveness scales, we have grown on the performance scales of public administration. We are starting a very thorough health reform, there are many debates, if you notice, we are cleaning up the health system regarding management we see that there have been huge irregularities. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u5	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u6	The contention, the President-in-Office, has been dragging on ever since the very beginning of your government. More. Everyone's talking about it, and a lot of them are writing about it, and you're waiting for the president. For what? Or as you yourself have already said today, you are waiting for evidence. Evidence, for example, that your member, a member of the SMC Executive Committee, former Secretary of State gets a job at the Bernardin Hotels. The director of the Bernardin Hotel is miraculously becoming the head of SDH. For example, proof that the new SDH President is closely linked to the NLB administration during disputed business practices. Or, for example, that SDH supervisor has a conflict of interest, but the "i" point is still very much linked to Sava, d. d., with which both SDH and the bad bank have been engaged for the past few months. That's not enough evidence for you. I believe that in this country we have enough capable personnel, such as those with law, a successful business path that does not raise doubts, even those with banking experience, and not that you choose again and again from, I will say, in some way an infected pool controlled by various informal networks. So, Madam President, once again, I ask you: Why did you eat your only pre-election promise that says something like this: I will lead the government with high ethical and moral standards and shut the door to the lobby?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u7	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u8	Dear Member, your imagination is truly incredible. However, I must answer that there will be no doubt in the public, especially among those who listen to this debate, that your claims do not hold. Look, I think the abbot comparison is that the employment of one of the SMC members in a hotel complex was conditioned by us naming, I don't know who we are, as a member of the SDH board, listen, these are completely incomparable matters. And if we were to explore things like this in Slovenia, then let's ask ourselves who else is unrelated to anyone else. This is exactly the problem in Slovenia, and this is a problem that I am constantly putting out. We in Slovenia are all connected to some extent. Every one of your relatives, every one of your friends is connected to someone. Mine, too. If for every relationship, for every contact we see, we imply that it is a corrupt relationship, then our country, which has 2 million inhabitants, cannot breathe, let alone survive. But there is no evidence and no evidence that the matters you're connecting are connected. And this isn't about any corrupt practices. With regard to the commitments I made at the time of the launch of the mandate, this was not the only one, our party has a programme with many commitments and is implementing them together with the coalition, we are doing this and we have not renounced these commitments. And the conflict of interest, you simply say, the SDH supervisor has a conflict of interest. The Supervisory Board, that's right, yes. We've checked all this out, it's been through a lot of procedures. Let me stress that independent top-ranking experts have also evaluated these people in the light of possible conflicts of interest. And, to put it this way, in the conflict of interest, after all the professions, the whole government has been examining things through a number of procedures, it's simply not serious. I say and I know that this is not a conflict of interest, but it is a fact that everyone who is capable of something has to do something in life. Even in some institutions, even in contact with one of us, from you, from the directors, from the bankers. It's not a question of who you've been in contact with, the question is, what contact, what contact you've been doing, whether you've been doing professionally, whether you've been paying attention to mistakes, whether you've been doing well for the company, the bank or the country. And these are the criteria to be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u9	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor for a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u10	Mr President, I propose that we also discuss this issue at a meeting of the National Assembly. I will add this, Miro Cerar before the elections, quote: "We have committed ourselves to a policy that will bring stability to Slovenia and a higher political and legal culture. We have a tough trial ahead of us, but we need to make progress, a breakthrough. That is why I speak mainly in raising legal and political culture." Miro Cerar after the elections: "Until I have the opposite evidence, I trust the SDH supervisory council that the procedure has been carried out legally. However, if someone proves that it has not been carried out legally, the Government will have to take action. At this moment it is not within the power of the Government to act in any way." That's what the Prime Minister said on November 3rd this year. No more about high standards, no more about ethics and no more about higher political and legal culture, respected president. It's a shame you turned the record so quickly and put Slovenia back on track. Therefore, once again, I think it is right to discuss this in this national assembly. But I suggest you, Mr President, that you ask SDH supervisors about the conflict of interest, because these are not my findings, but the facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u11	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda. The second President of the Government is asked by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! Mr President of the Government, it is estimated that migration flows against Europe will not be halted and assessed by various services. There are millions of people from Asia and Africa in the movement, almost exclusively Muslims from various Islamic branches. Slovenia has become one of the main migrants' choices due to the slowness of your government's action. Slovenia has crossed more than 200,000 migrants or more than 10% of our country's population in just a few or in recent weeks. This figure will increase significantly in the coming months. That there is an increasing proportion of trained terrorists coming to the European Union with specific tasks among migrants is clear to everyone. This means that total war is being carried over to the European Union using all available resources, which will only reduce the security of Europeans and Slovenians. Migrant controls at entry points are not sufficient, they are more collective, flat-rate on the line than serious and individual. The possible dire consequences of European superficiality at Schengen and internal borders, reception and accommodation centres have not been overlooked. Even more. The political and media space has also mined them for EU citizens and has also hidden criminal acts from us until this terrible slaughter that took place in Paris. One or even worse slaughter of completely innocent people can occur in any country on a migrant transit route or in the target country. Many point out that Slovenia is not ready to continue, nor is it prepared to step up the refugee wave. Dear President, I ask you: Does the Government have measures to monitor or continue to step up the refugee wave to ensure the stability of borders, human security and property, health security? Does the Government have developed measures and procedures to prevent the smuggling of money from terrorists, weapons and murder? Does the government have elaborate measures to detect and prevent the emergence of possible terrorist groups in Slovenia? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u13	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much, honourable Member for your question. It is true that so far more than 200,000 migrants or refugees have crossed Slovenia. As you know, there are currently several thousand in Slovenia. Thus, they have crossed, Slovenia is a transit country, and this flow, we are very successful in directing migrants, we accept the right, we record as much as possible and allow them to move forward to the countries they want to go to. Slovenia is not alone in this story. Slovenia is the smallest country on this so-called Balkan-Central European route, but we are already a Central European country, then Austria and Germany are above us, and it is interesting that we have proved to be one of the most competent countries to date in terms of action, both as regards the Schengen border and transit. Despite this small, relatively smaller capacity than other countries, we have successfully guided this flow through Slovenia, for once prevented everything, I would say, the events you have so dramatically predicted. Of course it's true, things aren't innocent. It is not just a matter of many people who are in distress, in pain, but also of people who can pose a security risk. Of course, we need to be careful, we know that in this horrendous terrorist attack that we witnessed in Paris the day before yesterday, even mostly, regrettably, French citizens, even Belgian citizens, are said to have even been born there, it is said that the matter is even more complex, not only the possibility of migrants coming, who may also be a security threat to us, but we know that the situation is wider. I can ensure that the government is monitoring this supply through the ministries, through the competent services, all the time. We have, I would say, a matter under control in our territory, but we are following it from Turkey, Greece, even earlier, and also later when this movement of migrants is made north of us. We are in constant contact with police services, with the internal ministries of other countries on the Balkan path, in Central Europe and in the north, we are in constant political and different contact at European Union level. We are involved in intelligence and other cooperation and are preparing for the possible escalation of this migratory wave. As you know, it is for this very purpose that we have also begun to set up certain steering fences at the border and to strengthen control of the Schengen area. We are also, as you can see, politically very successful, because we have gained a lot of cooperation from many countries, nine at a time, ten already coming with police officers at the border. We are getting aid in equipment, in funds from many countries of the European Union, in fact almost all of them, and we have a public recognition that we are one of the countries that has responded better than many others to this refugee-migrant problem. I am aware of the dangers you are pointing out, there are also threats in the security field, from terrorism to terrorism, to second, but this immediate level of threat in Slovenia is not increased. On Saturday, i.e. the day before yesterday, the Secretariat of the National Security Council met on my initiative. As you know, I have also explained on my own the National Security Council on several occasions all these matters, how the security situation and these assessments are, together with police experts, defence, civil protection and elsewhere. As you know, Mr Janša also participated in the initial meetings, of course he did not want to come, but you also have a representative in the opposition who can cooperate directly with the proposals and can also obtain all this information. Let me say that we have been establishing border control all the time, but of course, in the event of such migrations, which are not part of any country, even any of us, from Sweden, Germany, Greece and so on, Italy, even Slovenia, is not fully optimal, I would say, to exercise Schengen surveillance at the border. However, we are now trying to establish this in order to, together with these police units, establish the Schengen, what is, in fact, our fundamental idea for more time and which is now accepted by other EU countries on the basis of our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u15	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. I did not ask whether the Government is monitoring these flows and how it is monitoring them, but I asked in particular whether or not the Government has prepared measures to manage them, to monitor them, to carry out individual checks on those entering this country. They say some of them are full of money, huge amounts of cash are being transferred. Probably one part is their property, but the other part can be used to directly finance other activities. Unfortunately, Mr President, you have not answered either of these questions that I have asked. All those living in this country or the vast majority of those living in this country would like to know in particular whether the Government is in control of the situation, including the next migratory wave, which they say will be even larger, more extensive, whether the Government has ready measures even when the northern border is closed or when the movement across the northern border is reduced. What do you do? How do you control those who come in full of money, where they get weapons that, I don't know, can carry with them murderous assets and so on? You haven't answered any of these questions right now. However, we do not want the citizens of this country because of such superficial controls and statements, when some ministers do not even know how many fingerprints they have taken at the border and to whom and to check that citizens may not become refugees and run away from such things in two years. And another question you haven't answered is this control within the country, within Slovenia. Have you noticed any increased activities and perhaps some terrorist groups that are supposed to be formed within borders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u17	The Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u18	Of course I answered you, Mr. Tanko. I replied to you every day before I publicly explain that Slovenia, the Slovenian Government and the competent institutions are taking all measures to control that we have been preparing for this crisis for months before the start of this crisis, were prepared and expected and that we are stepping up measures at the border, at the border and at the interior of the country in view of developments. I've told you this many times before. I told you publicly, and I told you before. And this unknowing repetition of you not explaining something to you, it is not clear to me. But I'll do it again. We operate, we control, we're ready, we're ready. We're stepping up border measures, as you can see, we're setting up steering fences, we're strengthening border control. And once again, Slovenia is one of the countries that all EU members recognise that the wider international institutions recognise that one of the most ready for this migration crisis is both in the humanitarian dimension you are forgetting, because not everyone is a refugee or a migrant terrorist. Please don't forget that. Most people are just in trouble, there are economic migrants and others, but they are also refugees, and not all throw now in the same basket. However, we are also very safely informed, we have all the measures ready and we are doing as much as possible with all these checks. Of course, we do not leave armed people in Slovenia. This is indeed an underestimation of our police and organs, which is already unheard of to me. But we're not gonna raise their money. If you think we're going to get them the savings that some people have to survive in the country of destination because they're all potential terrorists, I can't agree to that. But we're checking the identity of people who are suspicious from a security point of view. And if such a person finds some amount of money, if he was previously involved in some sort of terrorist operation or anything, do not worry that we will hold him and deal with him properly. So I repeat, we are ready to step up. We've already taken action in time. At the same time, we are humanitarian and at the same time security-aware. We do not allow the scattering of people in Slovenia. So far, no criminal acts have been committed, not even a security threat. Our competent authorities, the police, as well as the others who stand by it, are primarily responsible here. And I assure you that these measures will continue intensively. The government will do everything to protect Slovenia and thus the European Union from security threats. However, the challenges are enormous, and we will have to cooperate here as the European Union. No country alone can successfully prevent this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u19	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor for a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I demand that the response of the President of the Government be decided by the National Assembly, because the argument and answers to the questions I have asked are not sufficient. That something does not work in this country, Mr President of the Government, is seen from the fact that this country, this government, has not been able to protect even the Olympics and Maribor games, and has been cancelled, and this is a sport-like game and a minimum security risk. And the game's canceled, she's not. When I ask you how border measures are provided, preventive measures to prevent certain things, and in general what measures the Government has in the case of a reinforced migratory wave, there is simply no answer. European leaders can pat you on the shoulder at these meetings, promise you police officers and more, but I ask you what measures you have to take to control these matters, to ensure and verify that we also have any groups that are planning any diversionary or terrorist actions, and so on. You didn't answer that, I'm sorry, you didn't answer that. With regard to the implementation of these activities, regardless of what is happening across Europe, across Europe, Slovenia is probably not an island in Europe where nothing will happen or where it cannot be estimated that nothing will happen. We are part of a system that is subject to the regime and objectives which are also aimed at other countries, and the Slovenian Government is obliged to ensure the safety of citizens within these borders. And, unfortunately, you did not tell this political assembly – we are part of a political system – about no measure to ensure the security of property, the safety of human health, the protection of the border. One measure has not been stated which relates to smuggling. You're just saying that this isn't happening, and it's not happening, but you haven't told me how you do it, whether these reviews are really quality, individual, how it's recorded, how it's done with your fingerprints and so on. After all, it is the concern of the citizens that is needed in the situation where things are developing at European level and probably also in the wrong direction. I therefore demand that the incomplete response of the President of the Government be decided by the National Assembly, because we are the ones who need to obtain adequate and quality information. However, the meeting may also be closed to the public, there is no problem at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u21	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 1 on Tuesday, 24. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thirdly, he will ask the Prime Minister the question of Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister, before the elections, you promised to bring new ethics and morality into this country, and you will obviously be recorded in history as the President of the Government, who allowed the military to interfere in civil affairs and surround the country with a sparkle wire. This is the first time since 1943 that Italy has capitulated that we have again barbed wires in this country, and Slovenia has become an infamous fifth member of the European Union for the 26th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, surrounded by a barbed wire. And here it must be noted that the Berlin Wall was also a barbed wire. You, Prime Minister, have essentially become one of the protagonists of this movement with your action. The trend is frightening, the measures are extreme, but it is not clear what they serve. As you have already said in your reply to Mr Tank, the issue of refugees as a security issue has not been raised, there have been no threats to property, life or anything else in the country, and it has proved to be a number of other problems. We have logistical problems, we have organisational problems, we have humanitarian problems. We have problems with health care, we have problems with overcrowded children, we have problems with lack of medicines, we have problems with housing, we have problems with transporting these people. In this sense, I am interested in: What exactly is this barbed wire you've set up for? Besides, I can't imagine people getting fucked up on the other side of the border right now, we'll pretend that's not our problem. In the end, if I say a few words about Paris. These events in Paris, which some will now try to take advantage of to show that they are indeed a security issue, have proved quite the opposite. They're responsible for the terrorist attacks in Paris. They're the ones those fugitives are running from. We have ISIS on both occasions. The question is not how to stop refugees, the question is how to stop ISIS, the question is how to stop the war that is being negotiated, and the question is how to end injustice in the Arab world, for which Europe is also responsible, with its non-colonial policy, so that we can resolve these issues permanently. In this respect, I am interested, Mr President: How does all these questions related to the refugee crisis respond to your fence?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u23	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. Here are some questions, as you said, why we allow the military to interfere in civil matters. The question has been put to an extreme degree by the banalization. The military has nothing to do with civil matters. The military is helping, and logistically, organizationally our police, our volunteers, our health workers, to cope with this great humanitarian crisis, which has also hit Slovenia as the smallest transit country on this Balkan-Central European route. I would like to repeat for those who listen to us, even for you, that what for Slovenia means 7,000 refugees a day is like 300,000 refugees for Germany a day or half a million for America if so many were coming. That's a big number for us. Our police, which is less than German, Greek or any other, Italian, cannot do everything on their own, but they invest in the inhuman daily efforts of the military, both civil protection, both health workers and humanitarian organisations, etc. I think it is unworthy to ask ourselves about anyone who has been helping, for several weeks on the ground, to work humanitarianally to interfere in certain matters and threaten Slovenia or whatever. These are our people who are helping us. Thank God the military and the police are finally working together, not that they are from some past times each on their own grave. Of course, we know exactly where the army can operate. And the army respects your authority. Second thing. This safety fence, which you call a barbed wire, is also true, is a steering fence. We have not yet fenced Slovenia and we do not intend to build it unless it is absolutely necessary. But honourable Members, Members, citizens and citizens, if Austria closes the border, we will have 100,000 refugees in Slovenia within 14 days. Will you open all your homes to them and warm them up at home? We don't have the capacity. These people are going to freeze in two months' time at minus degrees outside in the snow. We must ensure that in Slovenia we can also have in transit so many refugees at once, so many migrants that we can offer them health care, warm space, food, etc. Slovenia is, I stress, the smallest country with the least capacity to care for this same number of refugees. And since the countries south of us, east of us, Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia, Greece, in this regard are not sufficiently solidarityable, do not stop enough flows of refugees, but actually send them to us, and from us the countries are more orderly, and require a controlled transition, registration, etc., Slovenia as a responsible member of the EU as well as a member that protects the Schengen border, is obliged, for the first time, to prevent a humanitarian disaster. And that must be our common ethics. We can't just take refugees we can't make sure they don't have any food. They're not even warm. And secondly, it is clear that we must in some way give a clear signal to the countries of the east, south of us, that they are also obliged to bear part of this burden, but not to place it more on us and on others. You're saying there's no criminal activity, so why the military? Of course, that is not why criminal acts have occurred because we have the police all the time in a large number of serious efforts they are putting in where they are controlling the situation, because all other volunteers are so overwhelmed, they are so helpful that they are actually preventing riots. These people often come to Slovenia exhausted because they do not take care of them in the previous country, they come hungry and then they are much more in Slovenia than it should have been if the solidarity principle worked better. That is why I will say that the task of all of us is to be humanitarian in this respect as well, to direct these refugees and to accept them under control, as it has been said, to prevent these security risks and then to allow them in a humane way to stay here for a few days or longer before they go forward. That's why we need capacity, and that's why we need border control and everything else. As you know, it's only temporary obstacles when we talk about these fences that we'll be happy to remove when this problem is put out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u25	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. A few words about the army first. See, the law you proposed to be adopted is currently, if I understand correctly, at the Constitutional Court, because the Radio Student, as an instigator of the referendum, has submitted a constitutional complaint at the decision of the National Assembly. The law is stopped, the law is not in force, but you have all the time claimed that the military and the police are excellently cooperating, that the military is offering all logistical, organisational support, which is another proof of what we have said in the United Left the first day that we do not need this law. However, since the law goes beyond that, the law goes on to confer police powers on the military, which means that the military can actually get involved in civil affairs. And I repeat, the military and the police are not just separated, the military and the police are separated precisely so that the military, as a truly huge repressive apparatus, would have the power to intervene within the country or even against its own citizens. That's what the police are worried about. They're dealing with civil matters. About the steering fence, as you call it. I'm going to say this, if you're going to say that the problem is that you set up a fence so that people don't wander around Sotla, I have to tell you that it only happened once. And that is when Croatia uncoordinatedly sent people to our border. And the answer to that is not a fence, the answer to that is an agreement with Croatia. Now in establishing a new Croatian coalition you simply have to agree with them to send these people in a coordinated way, and this will prevent this problem. As far as the humanitarian disaster is concerned, I would like to say that we cannot solve the humanitarian disaster by exporting it to the country south of us and pretending that it is not. There is already a humanitarian disaster. It's only a question of how we're going to deal with it. And certainly not with the fence.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u27	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Let me answer the last one first. We are facing a humanitarian disaster in a number of other ways that I have explained. We work, from volunteers, from humanitarian organisations, we all contribute through the budget for these people, volunteers walk, you have also been Members, at least many of our clients, I know, volunteers on the ground – these are our ways. The steering fence is one of the extreme measures that is necessary in the context of stepping up measures. It surprises me, Mr Member, that you have not been informed of the fact that the Croats have often sent refugees scattered across the border. Not just once, like you said. That's what happened every day. Happily, then, one night, we received this excellent video so that we could see to the world’s public what we are facing at this border. This was happening on a daily basis. And I can assure you that it was also now a plan to send them to us dispersed, and we have prevented them, in cooperation with the internal ministry and also in consultation with the highest representative of the neighbouring country, because Slovenia still normally accepts refugees and migrants at the entry points, registers them and then takes care of them or allows them to go on to Austria and Germany. Here it is only that we have already achieved the first effect with this measure, that there is no longer this scattered sending of these poor people there through the fields and rivers, as you yourself have said. This proposed defence law, however, is only an opportunity that we must have in place if measures need to be stepped up even more severely if this humanitarian disaster is exacerbated by this migratory crisis. Members themselves say, quite precisely, that millions of people can still be on their way to Europe tomorrow, and the flow must be controlled for a number of reasons. That is why this is the option that we have foreseen – we have not activated it because there was no need for it yet, perhaps we will never, I hope that there will be no need. However, this amendment of the Defence Act allows the military to carry out certain measures here, three months at the most, to assist the police, on its own, within a very limited framework, under the prior mandate of the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority. These are the same measures the police can take. This means that it directs refugees to target certain groups to certain locations. This is not a military operation. It's just that we have an emergency situation if it ever happens, and I hope it never does. Thus, this stepping-up measure is only one of those that the Government is preparing, we have many more prepared if necessary. However, I hope that no one will have to act, because I want this crisis to calm down, so that the matter will calm down and that these fences can be removed as soon as possible. This, of course, is our fundamental purpose. But as long as it's dangerous, as long as things are uncontrollable, we must also prevent this humanitarian disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u29	Port of the Moon, you have the floor for a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you. I will only repeat, the targeting of refugees is resolved by an agreement with Croatia and by coordination with the Croatian authorities. The humanitarian crisis is prevented by humanitarian measures. The lack of resources is prevented by simplification of procedures and by an agreement on the EU and the refugee crisis can only be halted by normalisation of the Middle East situation. What a function the fence has here, you haven't answered. It is still unclear, except that there is obviously a very frightening trend in Europe that 25 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall we are now receiving barbed wires at many borders of the European Union. Since it is not clear where this is going and what it serves, I propose that we hold a serious debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u31	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 1 on Tuesday, 24. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fourthly, the question will be raised by the Magi to the Prime Minister. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, the ministerial team! In a good year of government action, we can say that despite the great daily challenges of the refugee crisis and its associated insecurity, the tragedies of terrorism are still calming. The set priorities of the coalition agreement shall be implemented. Despite differing views and often difficult dialogue, we are able to find common language and manage common quality solutions. There's still a lot of work to do, and we still have a lot to do. The challenges we face, however, remind us that, in addition to our daily efforts and responses to the ongoing problems, we need to focus our views on the future. Not only do the things we have to do and make us do the circumstances, but also the things that are required of us. To have a vision of a company exceeding the limits of one mandate. In the multitude of development strategies, it is possible to lose ourselves in the details, to take away the view from slightly more distant objectives, but this is precisely what the policy requires. That level of responsibility is to focus on the priorities that are important for the generation that live today and expect their tomorrow, and on that generation that is just beginning to live today. Dear Mr. President of the Government! The question I raised in the announcement was: What do you think are the three key or four development priorities that the Slovenian government must set for itself and achieve in 15 years by 2030? Allow me to add a little bit and explain this question with three sub-questions. How do you see your role in the process of developing a new strategy for the development of Slovenia? How do you see the role of political partners and the professional public in this process? What is the role of an individual citizen or citizen who wants and should seek to participate in these answers? Slovenia has been without strategic development frameworks for two years. The strategy for the development of Slovenia was last defined in a document that expired in 2013. This is certainly not good, and we all agree. I believe that the future of Slovenia is an important theme. Despite the circumstances, and because of them, we must not allow ourselves to live in strange times, this is our excuse to be unable to decide what we want. We have to have a vision, and that's what people expect from us. Therefore, honourable Prime Minister, I ask you to add to my question your contribution on Slovenia's strategic priorities in the coming decades. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u33	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much. As you know, until recently, more than 140 different strategies have been adopted in Slovenia. This government has found that many do not realize that they are not sufficiently connected, not sufficiently synchronized, so it has decided to do what is essential: one common umbrella strategy, from which the following will come, and this will be completed next year, and it will work intensively. As is being done on the operational programme and smart specialisation strategy, which in some ways already partially reflect this strategy. Let me be more controlled about going to the content. I'd hardly have three, four, five key issues. If we look for more than ten years in advance, let's say by 2030, which is one such limit within this strategy, there are also broader dimensions, there could be a great injustice if he highlighted only the area of the economy and neglected culture or highlighted only education and neglected, for example, the care of the elderly or something like that. Nevertheless, let me try. It is certainly one of the fundamental tasks that this government has already undertaken and will become increasingly intense with each month and year, making the Slovenian and other entrepreneurs working in Slovenia the most friendly, predictable, reliable business environment. To get policy out of the economy and let the economy breathe, we are already doing this, and this environment is by promoting competitiveness. To also encourage the creation of new businesses. Young people with innovation are drawn into this development. And in this regard, there is already another attitude of this government, i.e. employment. We are already increasing employment in the trend. That's the key. Especially young, but actually all of them. Every person must be able to do his job to ensure a dignified life, a basic standard for himself and his family. This means that economic development must be seen in this light. Of course, then there are specifics, like, we're going to go for tourism. This is one of the main activities in the economy. Here, of course, we will make a strategy for the economic sectors, and this is an intensive work. Above all, it is necessary to take advantage, and this is again one of the key points, the geostrategic advantages of Slovenia. We know that we are in a special position, so we will stand by, our government is already committed to strengthening railway and road links. Here, of course, we are talking about modernisation of railways, including the second track, and we are talking about the second, third development axis and clearly also about maintenance, upgrading links with neighbouring countries, where this already exists in part or in full. It is then very important that we improve the efficient use of energy, especially renewable resources. Slovenia has some natural resources in exceptional quantities such as water, such as wood. You know that this government has already taken the first steps and is doing them intensively to take advantage of these comparative advantages, this wealth of ours to a much greater extent than has been seen in recent years, and in the forests, in the wood, even in the domestic wood industry, we will work intensively on the wood processing chain. Water is also a matter that we must take into account strategically in the future, this is our extraordinary wealth. Then use your knowledge. Slovenia has a relatively highly educated workforce. We lack competence, this is often the problem, because we have jobs available, and there is not enough competence. And that's what this government is working on to teach young people as quickly as possible so that they can get into a work relationship where they're just waiting for certain pro-pulsive companies with good business models so that these people can work, and they just don't get competent enough. They got some kind of education, not this competent knowledge. That's a lot of work. Then I see one of the important things to mention, the care of the sick and the elderly. Also a health reform, where we are now taking the first decisive steps that will continue, as has already been predicted, especially in the coming year. And the care of the elderly, with all this, we have a great opportunity to follow these demographic indicators and also to attract foreigners to Slovenia to be provided here and, in fact, to develop these business opportunities. And then the health and pension reform that awaits us in the years to come, and many more, but time does not allow you to go into these details. We prepare, we work and we mean it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u35	Mag. Bojana Muršič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your answer. Nevertheless, I must point out that I believe that it is still important that we reach a consensus on our common future. It is important, however, that we also highlight how Slovenia will reach this strategy. Social Democrats want to participate in this debate. We have highlighted some of our proposals in public in recent weeks. What Slovenia has and can build on is a public power. Our commitment to one another is one that sometimes makes us special, but in good and for all. Strong public education, accessible and quality public health, we need to build on them, as you mentioned. We also need to discuss the economic and business environment we want, what taxes we will pay, how often we will change the rules of the game. We are of the opinion that we need to discuss this, as you stated, patiently and quickly in 2016. Then there is the area of public property and public infrastructure. I am talking in particular about the management of public property, the construction of a key economic infrastructure, as you stated, of a second track. And finally, Slovenia is really small, we can't keep saying that we have no influence. How do you, as Prime Minister of the Government, represent Slovenian influence on the world and decisions that change in it? Also, the President-in-Office, I ask you to complete your reply, in particular by your opinion on the role of public service and social solidarity in Slovenia's development strategy, the quality of the business environment, public ownership, infrastructure and the impact Slovenia will have on the world. With that, I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u37	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I should now have at least 20 minutes at my disposal to respond to all of this. But I think your questions are in the right direction. All this involvement in the public debate, both you and your customers and everyone else, is a prerequisite for us to get to something of quality. Let me say that this strategy, a vision of one of the broadest public debates in the past few months, has been going on for a long time. There are numerous stakeholders from science, from all fields where it is necessary, from the Academy of Sciences to business, from institutes, to universities and so on. The OECD and other foreign professional organisations are also asked for opinions. That's what I'd say. We have already taken one very concrete step by adopting this government's State Asset Management Strategy, where we have drawn up visions of governance with this public, that is, state property. We're not passive here. We now have criteria, goals, expectations, and we have also reached the completion of these decision-making bodies at this time. How do we affect the world? You will not believe, but we also influence the world, although we are a relatively small country on the scale of the population and territory, but we are great in this spirit. We establish a number of contacts not only within the European Union but also outside the European Union. We're inviting a lot of investors here. It is an outstanding interest to connect with Slovenia. For example, we had some joint government meetings, such as with the Serbian government. Now we're planning it with the Hungarian government. I am talking about a narrower region, where it is very important to establish some kind of cooperation based on mutual interests that can lead to more employment, to better integration in the region. In the energy field, we are increasingly connecting with neighbouring countries. Even when we come up with the final idea of how to tackle the second track and modernise railways, this will connect Slovenia with the whole of Central Europe, as well as with Northern Europe in some way. We're also in communication with China, Vietnam, India. Everyone is interested in transporting goods through Slovenia. Also at European level, at EU level, we are very actively involved with proposals, opinions on the Single Market debates, in discussions on everything about energy and common policy. I think that Slovenia is very active, but it is clear that it is never enough, there are still challenges and we are moving on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u39	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday 24 with oral questions to ministers and ministers. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're moving to 2. IN 3. It's a day's work. Following an agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we will carry out joint introductory presentations on the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 under agenda items 2 and 3 of the agenda. The Government has submitted the supplementary draft budgets for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the supplementary draft budget for the next two years, I give the floor first to the President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u40	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before you are complemented by the proposals for state budgets for 2016 and 2017, the first two-year budget of our government, whose main objectives are to further stabilise and consolidate public finances while continuing, thus creating conditions for the continuation of stimulating economic growth. In presenting the complementary proposals of these two budgets at the end of September, I highlighted some of the positive indicators that Slovenia is seeing in the macroeconomic field. I have thus highlighted the decline in unemployment rates mainly among young people. I have warned that the risk of poverty has stabilised and is no longer growing, and, of course, as we say and identify from the front, economic growth is still encouraging and also good forecasts for the future. Of course, in the last two months, we have witnessed an enhanced migratory flow. We discussed this, which also had a significant impact on the development of the 2016 supplementary budget. In drawing up the 2016 and 2017 supplementary draft budget, the Government reviewed the amendments tabled, took due account of the discussions, views and proposals of the individual working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the legal obligations and, as has already been said, the migration issue. The complementary proposals of both budgets also take into account certain organisational and project changes in budgetary users. In the 2016 state budget's complementary proposal, we are planning revenue of €8.7 billion, which is more than €73 million above the original budget, and the proposed expenditure increases by €123 million, i.e. €2.5 billion. The deficit in the income and expenditure balance increases by €50 million, totalling €839.3 million and 2.1% of gross domestic product. The only reason to increase those budgetary categories is the migration flows, which are why we provide additional funds to the Ministry of Finance. The updated draft state budget for 2017 shows an unaltered amount of revenue and expenditure as the original proposal, namely revenue of €8.7 billion and expenditure of €9.4 billion. The deficit in the state budget remains unchanged at €717.8 million and 1.74% of GDP. Let me remind you of some of the key features of the complementary proposals for both budgets, 2016 and 2017. We have followed the objective of further promoting growth also by promoting private consumption. The impact of progress in the public sector increases the volume of wage funds and contributions. Together with the budgets, we are also taking long-term action in various areas to ensure stable growth and fiscal consolidation. We have followed the constitutional provisions and provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act, which require the state's budgets to be balanced in the medium term without debt. The correction of the structural deficit must take place in accordance with the dynamics foreseen by the Stability and Growth Pact. In line with this dynamic, Slovenia is expected to address the structural deficit over the next five years. We are further concerned about human security and property, so we have increased the budget expenditure for the police and their appropriate equipment and the expenditure of the judicial authorities to modernise the prison system compared to the current budget. Over the next two years, we also have the resources to complete the emergency in Ljubljana. More budgetary resources will also be allocated to the regulation of state roads and partially closed bridges, which is one of the priorities. In the following year, some austerity measures in the area of social protection and family benefits will be released, which were adopted by the Public Finance Balance Act, the so-called ZUJF. We have raised the basic amount of minimum income, which will mainly affect the higher amounts of monetary social assistance and thus improve the material situation of the most vulnerable groups. We will continue to invest in promoting the employment of young, elderly and long-term unemployed, through various measures in the field of active employment policy. In the public sector, the natural outflow of employees will be replaced by employment of young people. Finally, in order to improve the situation of pensioners in 2016, let me say that we will coordinate pensions extremely. Dear Members and Members! Positive economic growth indicators and consequently higher projected tax revenues in the budget give us more freedom in programming expenditure and directing them to the right areas. In the 2016 draft budget, therefore, most ministries have received more resources than they were available in the 2015 rebalancing, so we can actually all be fully satisfied or we can – and I think we have to be – moderate optimists. At the same time, we must not forget that our objective on the medium term is to balance the structural balance, so we are still maintaining a healthy measure of restrictiveity in the planning of expenditure. In selected areas, measures and projects will be implemented to improve competitiveness factors, promote economic productivity and increase employment rates. The objectives of the public financial policy of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2007 follow the requirements and recommendations of the EU Council in the context of the Stability and Growth Pact commitments and, of course, at the same time, our own legal commitments to the fiscal rule. The achievement of the medium-term scenario is envisaged through intertwining, investment promotion and measures for greater competitiveness, structural measures and fiscal responsibility. The main objectives of the 2016-2017 economic policy remain as yet to promote economic growth, addressing key challenges in the area of economic indebtedness and the business environment and, secondly, pursuing gradual but sustained fiscal consolidation. These objectives are, of course, followed by the 2016 and 2017 supplementary draft budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a successful job, and I hope that the budget will be adopted soon for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u41	In order to further explain the supplementary draft budgets for the next two years, I also give the floor to Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u42	Your Honor! The Government has prepared complementary draft state budgets for 2016 and 2017, as provided for in Article 159 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Although the Government has identified itself to the amendments tabled by rejecting them, it has taken due account of the discussions, views and proposals of the individual working bodies of the National Assembly on the draft budgets when preparing the complementary proposals. In defining specific proposals and in preparing complementary solutions, the Government was based on the fact that the draft budget must respond to five key challenges, which I discussed more extensively when presenting the basic proposal for both budgets. These challenges are: the required reduction of the deficit, the reduction of EU funds, the implementation of the social agreement, excessive expectations and the promotion of economic growth and employment. As it is said, the complementary draft budgets address these challenges and another challenge needs to be added to them, which is to finance the costs of managing the migration crisis. In view of the experience so far, the cost of managing migration flows is estimated to require an additional €123 million in 2016 for this purpose. European funds are expected to amount to €73 million, while the remaining €50 million are proposed to increase the deficit of the state budget and debt. As a result of the projected increase in the deficit of the State budget, which is reflected in cash flows, the expected deficit of the whole sector in 2016 will also be higher, which is determined in accordance with the ESA 2010 methodology, in accordance with the business event principle. In addition to the State budget, the State sector also covers the SPIZ, the health insurance undertaking, municipalities and indirect budgetary users. The deficit of the whole sector of the country is expected to be 2.3% of gross domestic product, 0.1% more than we planned at the end of September. In doing so, we are seeking to recognise the European Commission's expenditure related to migration costs as a single or temporary measure which, as such, should not have an impact on the so-called structural deficit of the state sector. We did not foresee the problems of managing the migration crisis in 2017 due to excessive uncertainty in assessing the extent of possible funding needed to cover these costs in the supplementary draft budget. Reliable estimates for 2017 will be available in 2016 and will be taken into account in the revised draft budget for 2017, to be drawn up by the Government in accordance with its Rules of Procedure by the end of September 2016. Other changes in the supplementary draft budgets for these two years relate to certain organisational and project changes in budgetary users, these are transfers between budgetary users or within the financial plans of individual users that do not affect the overall volume of budgetary spending over the next two years or the deficit. The draft supplementary budget to cover public sector labour costs is not amended in the light of the initial draft budgets. Given that an agreement has been reached with the public-sector unions departing from the originally planned financial impact of €28 million for the public sector as a whole and €16.8 million for the state budget, the Government estimates that budgetary users can provide these funds under existing financial plans with instruments made available by the proposed Law on the Enforcement of State Budgets for these two years. With regard to the financing of the work of the municipalities, I stress that the 2016 supplementary draft budget provides sufficient funds to finance adequate spending in municipalities if an average of EUR 522 is agreed. If the Presidency of the two representative associations is prepared to adopt the last proposal of the Government - this morning - to provide an average of €525 per capita in 2016, the Government will provide additional funds for 2016 with transfers in accordance with its competences and no additional funds need to be provided for 2017. Before presenting in more detail the supplementary draft budgets for 2016 and 2017, I would like to explain further the issues raised with regard to the harmonisation of the proposed budgets with the Fiscal Rule Act and the Constitution. The Fiscal Rule Act lays down when the principle of medium-term balance referred to in Article 148 of the Constitution is respected. During the transitional period in which we are in 2020, this is a period of correction of the structural deficit. The Fiscal Rule Act provides that the principle is respected if the structural deficit is reduced over the years by the dynamics prescribed by the Stability and Growth Pact. For Slovenia, the reference rate for reducing the structural deficit for 2016 is 0,6 % of gross domestic product and 0,3 % of GDP for 2017. Let me further explain the calculation of the structural balance of the State sector, which is actually the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the State sector in a given year, adjusted for the effects assessed as a result of the economic cycle, without taking into account the effects of the single or temporary measures defined in the Stability and Growth Pact. In order to calculate the structural balance of the State sector, it is necessary to determine the economic situation of the business cycle in order to determine the cyclical component in the balance of the State sector. The economic situation in the business cycle is calculated according to the value of the potential gross domestic product. The Fiscal Rule Act concerning the potential gross domestic product in Article 6(2) provides that this is calculated on the basis of the common methodology used for this purpose in the EU under the control of public financial policies. The potential level of GDP is assessed at the level of GDP that the economy would achieve by using capital and work that has no inflationary effects. The Fiscal Rule Act therefore establishes only a methodology for calculating potential GDP, which is the European methodology, the European Commission, but does not specify which data or forecasts are used in calculating the potential level of GDP. On the other hand, EU legislation allows a Member State to determine which data it will use. This is based on the fifth paragraph of Article 4 of Directive 2011/85 on the budgetary requirements of the Member States. The Directive provides that Member States shall ensure that public financial planning is based on realistic macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts, using up-to-date information, budgetary planning is based on the most likely macro-fiscal scenario or on a more prudent scenario. The macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts shall be compared to the latest Commission forecasts and, where appropriate, with the forecasts of other independent bodies. The significant differences between the selected macro-fiscal scenario and the Commission's forecast must be clarified. Furthermore, the Directive provides for Member States to identify which institution is responsible for forecasting macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts and to publish official macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts prepared for public financial planning, including methodologies, assumptions and key parameters on which these forecasts are based. Member States and the Commission shall establish at least once a year a technical dialogue on the assumptions underlying the preparation of macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts. This is said to harmonise with the European Commission at least once a year. For the purposes of budgetary planning, we use the macro-economic forecasts of Umarja, as set out in Article 14 of the Regulation on Development Planning Documents and Procedures for the preparation of the State budget proposal. It will also be provided for in the revised Public Finance Act, which is in preparation. Thus, when we prepared an assessment for 2016, 2017 of how much deficit needs to be reduced in order to comply with the Fiscal Rule Act and with this Constitution, we derived from the data of Umar's forecast and from Umar's calculations of potential gross domestic product. On this basis, we then translated the methodology used in the Stability and Growth Pact into our cash flow methodology and thus determined how much of the budget deficit could be in order to actually achieve this structural effort. I know it's a relatively complicated thing, but that's the basic logic that we've followed, on the basis of which we've made these two budgets. So for a better show, it's still in numbers. This year, we planned that according to ESA, according to the European methodology, the country's deficit will be 2.9% of GDP; it is said that less than 3% will be required. For the following year, 2016, we now plan to see the sector deficit of 2.3% of GDP per ESA in the supplementary draft budget; it is said to be 0.6% lower, which is in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. This is then translated into the Slovenian cash flow methodology, thus reducing the deficit of the state budget, which is reflected in the cash flow, from 3.58% of GDP this year to 2.1% of GDP in 2016. In order to further achieve a 0,3 % reduction in the structural deficit by ESA in 2017, it is necessary to plan a further reduction in the deficit of the state budget following the cash flow from 2.1 %v 2016 to 1.74 % of GDP in 2017. In short, in this way we have prepared budgets 2016 and 2017 in order to comply with the Fiscal Rule Act, and the deficit is such that this allows. So much is possible on the harmonisation of draft budgets with the Fiscal Rule Act. I should like to present further the proposed changes to the supplementary budgets. This appropriation is The 2016 supplementary draft budget proposes revenue, as already mentioned by the President, of €8.7 billion, which is 73 million more than the draft budget. Expenditure is planned at a total of €9.5 billion, which is more than 132 million over the original budget. The difference between the draft budget and the updated draft budget for 2016 relates to the following content. The revenue increases by 73 million, from the additional estimated revenue from the EU budget for the purpose of covering the costs of migration flows. Expenditure increases by 123 million, again in order to provide additional funding for the financing of these costs. An increase of 73 million relates to an increase in European funds and for the remaining 50 million euros more expenditure, the deficit is increasing. Other changes. The expenditure relates to transfers of spending rights from the financial plan of the Ministry of Finance to other budgetary consumers or within the financial plans of individual budgetary users – i.e. without prejudice to the level of indebtedness or deficits. The reallocation of funds relates mainly to the following purposes: a referendum on marriage and family relations of 1.1 million euros to the State Election Commission; for the purpose of public information for the introduction of tax registers of 125 000 euros to the Government of Communications and 93 000 euros to the Financial Administration; for the project to support the implementation of payments of old foreign exchange deposits of 120 000 to the Ministry of Finance; for the costs of the work of staff in the project unit for arbitration with Croatia at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and for the operation of veteran organisations of 750 000 at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. Even smaller adjustments have been made in the financial plans of the budgetary users in order to better plan projects. Expenditure in the financial claims and investments account is increasing by EUR 11 million for additional funds to co-finance investments in local public infrastructure at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The debt in the financing account is increased by €61 million, by €50 million due to migration costs and €11 million due to increased loans given to co-finance investments in local public infrastructure. In 2017, the updated draft budget proposes revenue of 8.7 billion and expenditure of 9.4 billion. The deficit in the revenue and expenditure balance is not changing and is proposed at EUR 717.8 million, which is 1.74% of GDP, according to the logic I explained earlier. In the Funding account, an additional draft budget for 2017 is planned for a debt of €4.1 billion, which is 11 million more than the draft budget, and a debt repayment of €2.9 billion, which is the same as in the draft budget. With regard to the proposed amendments, which have been submitted to the supplementary draft budgets for these two years, I ask for caution in their adoption, as most of them may constitute a violation of the constitutional fiscal rule and constitute a significant departure from the path of public financial consolidation. Taking into account the above, the Government adopted on Friday the view that the amendments to the supplementary draft budgets are not supported and I propose that the National Assembly also support the amended draft budgets in their original content, i.e. without the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u43	The updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to Mrs Urska Ban, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial assembly with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 37th emergency meeting. 11. 2015 as a parent working body treated the updated draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee received 45 amendments to the 2016 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by SDS members, the United Left, NSI and the Non-Aligned Members within the deadline. The 29 amendments to the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 tabled by the SDS members, the United Left and NSI were also forwarded. The Committee held a joint debate on the 2016 and 2017 supplementary draft budgets. In a joint introductory presentation of the 2016 and 2017 supplementary budget proposals, the representative of the Ministry of Finance presented in particular the innovations in the next two years' supplementary draft budgets. For 2016, individual proposers of the financial plans proposed individual technical corrections, transfers of individual funds between items, totalling EUR 3 million. However, the key substantive changes relate to the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the costs of the arbitration agreement, at the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which provides EUR 11 million in the B balance to provide 3% of the investment transfer in the form of favourable reimbursements to municipalities, an additional EUR 500 000 is also provided for the operation of veteran organisations and EUR 1 million to the State Election Commission for the implementation of the referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The maximum change in 2016 relates to the establishment of a specific reserve to deal with the migration crisis, amounting to EUR 123 of earmarked funds. In relation to these additional expenditure, an additional debt of €50 million will be made available, while €73 million will be made available from European funds. As a result, the budget deficit increases from €789 million to €839 million and from 1.98% of GDP to 2.10% of GDP. These costs represent an exceptional circumstance or a single event and therefore the extent of the ESF deficit remains 2.2 %. For 2017, the changes are smaller, with the funds already mentioned changing across the ministries. In her presentation, the State Secretary also said that the Government had identified itself to the amendments tabled and did not support them. In the opening presentation, the representative of Umarja said that the economic situation has not changed significantly to date. The forecasts of other institutions also show similar movements of the most important aggregates, both in terms of economic activity, the labour market and also in terms of imbalances in the Slovenian economy, as predicted by Umar. Exports increased by 0,6 % in the third quarter, industrial production increased by 0,8 % in the same quarter. Construction activities continue to deteriorate, which declined sharply in the third quarter. Risks have been maintained and are still associated with both the international environment and the domestic environment in recent months. In the international environment, high risks remain in order to slow growth, which will also be known in Slovenia. The flow of refugees is also increasing, which could have very serious consequences for the whole European economic picture and, consequently, for Slovenia. The absence of money flow improvements from the banking sector to the business sector remains the most important risk factor among domestic risks. The macroeconomic situation has not changed significantly, relatively favourable trends continue and relatively high risks for future activity remain for 2017. The representative of the Council of State presented written opinions on the two supplementary draft budgets not supported by the Council of State. In a joint debate on the complementary proposals for the two years, the members and members of the Committee said that the draft budget did not reflect a vision in the field of economy, social and health. There are no priorities in the budget, as this is not a strategic document. They considered the budget memorandum to be quite a dig, but it was true that the Government had completed it. They considered that the budget was not investment-oriented and that there was not enough funding for R & D. They asked whether the draft budget was in line with local communities and whether municipalities particularly exposed to migratory flows would receive adequate financial assistance. They also highlighted the area of cohesion funds in the new financial perspective. As regards the implementation of the fiscal rule, they considered that it was not in practice implemented, since the fiscal council had not yet been established and therefore they consider Slovenia to be in an unconstitutional state. They asked whether the migrant crisis, and therefore the related expenditure, would burden the budget to this end in order to increase the deficit and whether it would require a budget rebalancing in the coming year. They also asked whether Slovenia would be eligible for EU funding due to the costs of migrant flows and in this regard they were interested in assessing the costs of the migration problem for Slovenia. During the debate, the Minister of Finance fully explained Slovenia's main challenges over the next two years and highlighted in particular the reduction of deficits, the reduction of EU funds in the new financial perspective, the area of investments that have not been well placed so far, so their impact has been poor, the improvement of the business environment with improved legislation in this area, which will in particular reduce administrative obstacles. With regard to all of the above, he stressed the need to find a balance and a solution for negotiations and an agreement with the municipalities, with regard to public sector wages, and to address the issue of the migration crisis, the result of which could only be assessed by the Government. During the debate and at the end of the discussion, the Secretary of State also answered the questions raised. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the two complementary proposals for the 2016 and 2017 State budget, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled by the members of the groups, which were not supported by the amendments for 2016 and 2016. Following the discussion, it was decided that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy supports the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u45	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u46	Nice once again greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, presidents, ministers and ministers! Before us is the first real budget of the Government of Mira Cerar, in fact two; the budget for 2016 and the budget for 2017. The budgets from which the government's vision, the governance strategy and the actions that the two would take, the real vision and strategy, should be clearly defined and set out in a timely manner. Unfortunately for me, none of this comes from your budgets, despite my vivid imagination, as the Prime Minister has attributed to me. I am sorry that, in fact, we have two years lost, two years without development and progress. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, told us on the Committee what were the five key challenges the Government faced in these two budgets. First, the required reduction of the budget deficit, secondly, the reduction of European funds, thirdly the implementation of the social agreement, fourthly the promotion of economic growth and fifthly the high expectations of people. These challenges have been addressed by the Government, according to the Minister, through three measures; firstly, investments, secondly by changes in the business environment, from tax through environmental and spatial to judicial, and thirdly by tax restructuring. Let's take a look at these three things in a little bit more detail. First of all, investments. The whole world is talking about the need for investment. Two more years ago was the only way to save money. We have already warned at the time that this is not the case and that, in addition to saving, the economy must be encouraged, including through public investment. And that's what we've been doing. Today we have a budget ahead of us where investment investments are falling by more than €600 million. 600 million euros less for investments! No major investment project is foreseen. We will need a second track with a dynamic, as in these two budgets, to build 100 years. You have not been able to obtain European money for any serious project. The Juncker Fund, mentioned above, will unfortunately be empty before you can prepare a project that you could apply for and, of course, succeed. So with investments, we will encourage our economy a little bit. Second, a change in the business environment. More than necessary in several areas! Unfortunately, nothing has been done in a year and a half. It is true, however, that public money is practically unnecessary for these changes; in short, we do not need it; we need the will to change. To this day, there have been many words that need to be changed, but little more action. But I can tell you that our support for these changes, when they're on the table, you certainly do. Third time, tax restructuring. This is also a measure that we do not yet see in the budget, there are forecasts, there are desires, and specifically in the budget none of this. In short, three measures responding to five challenges; there is no investment — there is no business environment change — there is no tax restructuring — there is not yet. That's why I'm saying that in front of us, unfortunately for me, there are two years lost, no positive shifts in the right direction. In our parliamentary group, we advocate progressiveness and do not want every government to turn things upside down, but at least a few small steps in the first direction are needed in such important documents and in such important documents as budgets for the next two years. Since these steps are not in place, we will not support our budget group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u47	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, honourable President of the Government, respected members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I have searched the budget adoption reports over the past two decades, and I have found that the positions were almost identical or very similar. The government side defended the proposed solutions, which it had generally justified by current economic and social challenges, each time the opposition felt otherwise and has always highlighted the controversial or weak points of the proposed budget line. This parliamentary rhetoric almost cannot be different. Why am I starting to present our Group's position in this way? Above all, I would just like to point out the similarity in the preparation and adoption of budgets, and from a second point of view, I would like to stress the importance of the current challenges in this important task. At the same time, I wonder if everything could have gone differently. In principle, yes, but in terms of the functioning of parliamentaryism, I strongly doubt that there could be broad cooperation between the position and the opposition when adopting the budget. Exceptions, thank God, they are. As we know, even at the time of the deepest economic and financial crisis, this has already happened in this Chamber. The fact is that public financial, economic and social challenges can, as a rule, offer different solutions, depending on the current executive branch to the greatest extent on which solutions are decided. That is why her responsibility is the greatest. In the last six, seven years, these circumstances in Slovenia, regardless of the political affiliation of the coalition or government, have been very difficult and uncertain. The current government or government coalition faces similar challenges. In addition, provisions relating to the so-called golden fiscal rule will now have to be complied with. From a general point of view, we estimate that the proposed budgets for the next two years are slightly improved in the light of all the circumstances we are facing and despite the fact that the public financial situation has at least formally improved, so these two proposals are acceptable. Whether the budgets will also be sustainable, especially the latter, so for 2017, it would be very irresponsible and risky to predict. Looking at the process of adopting budgets for 2016 and 2017, we could see on the surface that the circumstances for drawing up a good budget after a few years have been slightly more favourable. However, if the actual situation is different or not so uniform, there is no need to stress it. The situation in the area of comprehensive security has made the refugee-migration crisis to a large extent difficult and there are risks to be faced, as well as a slightly less favourable or changed situation in terms of obtaining European funding from the financial perspective by 2020. The negative consequences of our past actions make it even more difficult for us to generate budgets, thus, due to unhealthy banking policies and past depletion, due to mis-used or misused privatisation, limping judicial activities and could still be listed. Therefore, with regard to the general definitions of budgets, we also welcome the efforts to complement and upgrade the functioning of the Slovenian Army and the police. All the budgetary efforts aimed at creating jobs and the competitiveness of the economy are also very useful. However, we believe that a little more could be done in promoting investment and sound local community programmes, investing in scientific research programmes and culture. We are pleased to note, however, that our joint efforts over the past months, relating to the content of the activities of indigenous national communities in various fields of action, have produced fruit. We do not argue that the budgets for 2016 and 2017 from the perspective of these communities are generous, nor are they allowing for comprehensive development, which would be necessary in terms of the existence of vulnerable groups such as the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Rather, it points out that, since the start of the crisis, money for the needs of national communities has unfortunately not changed, for example, in the area of culture, even in recent years there has been a decrease. Therefore, it is only noted that, in view of the State's public financial circumstances, the approach of the current government in the preparation of the budget lines of the national communities has been very adjusted. In the field of education, cooperation with the competent ministry is exemplary. While we still have many challenges that we can only solve together, we believe that allowing our activities within the framework, as has been the case so far, is a very important message. In the area of cultural activities of indigenous national communities, the budget currently under consideration is also similar to that of the competent ministry. We note, however, that a more appropriate solution should be sought to demonstrate the intended means for the cultural activity of indigenous national communities in the budget documents. The account, which formally includes other European development funds, is methodologically or formally misleading, and we have specifically pointed out this to the National Community Commission of the Ministry of Finance. The funds provided through the Office of Nationality for the functioning of the national community organisations for the implementation of the bilinguality of municipalities and for certain content of information activities shall, in quantitative terms, be properly planned. However, since there are difficulties in interpreting the regulatory arrangements and relations within these headings, we ask the Government once again to adopt, in accordance with the Law on Community Financing for the next two years, a regulation on the financing of the activities of the organizations of the national communities and the bilingual operation of municipalities. In particular, we welcome the Government's decision to provide, on the basis of a law on more coherent regional development, for the two proposed budgets the correct amounts for the creation of an economic basis for indigenous national communities. Nevertheless, we can still see that there have not been any planned changes in the area of improving the system itself for creating the economic basis of the national communities. We expect to find a legally correct solution in this area as soon as possible, in particular in terms of effective implementation. Finally, I should like to stress that the organisations and institutions of the Hungarian and Italian national communities are working transparently. They shall send all reports and accounts in accordance with the law to the competent national authorities. I only mention this because, unfortunately, some still, even as a result of the ever-increasing social crisis, unjustifiably, by misusing public data, by non-transparent comparisons and without reasonable arguments, accuse the organisations of the national communities. Tendentious pressures do not have a real basis, which has also been confirmed by investigations by the competent authorities. Once again, I am pleased that the Government and I have been able to find a common denominator in our specific area in order to find the appropriate financial framework for the functioning of the national communities, for which we sincerely thank. We'll support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u49	Your Honor, I'm adjourning in three minutes. We'll continue at exactly 11.58.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u50	Your Honor! The terrorist attacks on innocent civilians in Paris and elsewhere are an act of rejection, and the people who have made them of their ideological blindness are the unworthy marks of man. But these atrocities against the people whose fault was only that they were innocent will not go unresponsible. The desire for freedom, equality and brotherhood will be strengthened in us instead of the fear that the European citizens have wanted to sow by the attackers. Freedom is what is at the heart of Europe. Equality allows us to take advantage of our potentials, the brotherhood is what has given us the strength and courage to build a common European country. We have not given up in past battles, we will not give up today. Europe will emerge from these events stronger, without hatred and intolerance. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are at the side of our French fellow citizens and fellow citizens of the European Union in these bloody events. Let us bow with a minute of silence to all innocent victims and express our compassion for their relatives. ♪ A minute of silence ♪ We continue with the adjourned session. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, the distinguished colleague and colleagues, the distinguished Council of Ministers! The process of preparing and addressing the upcoming two-year budget of the Republic of Slovenia is under a great deal of weight either past or unforeseen situations present two fundamental challenges. The first challenge is to identify and financially support the country's programme development priorities; the second challenge is to have an adequate, including a financially supported response to unforeseen situations in the international environment, which are no longer merely financial and economic in nature, which was the predominant rule until this year, but also, in particular, new demographic and security images in the European and our spaces. We are pleased to note that despite these challenges and the overall lower budget cuts, we can find that the need for austerity restrictions of the Public Finance Balance Act has been slowly extinguished, that we have been recording positive indicators in the macroeconomic area in recent years, that the unemployment rate has been reduced, that good forecasts for the continuation of economic growth and that there are also good forecasts in the upcoming two-year budget under fiscal rules and the permissible public financial deficits aimed at supporting our country's further growth and competitiveness. We must be aware that the developmental and related financial challenges of the country remain extremely difficult. For example, for the pension system, our country earmarked €1.1 billion from the 2008 budget, which will amount to €1.4 billion in 2017. To service public debt, for example, in 2008 the country earmarked €329 million, in 2017 as much as €1.1 billion. We are aware that under the conditions described above, while pursuing the fiscal rules adopted, it is now necessary to continue to consolidate and stabilise the public financial situation, in particular government debt management, while providing adequate financial support to identifiable programme development content and areas, to promote measures for long-term growth, to foster economic investment potential and competitiveness, to maintain a fair social balance and dialogue, and to be responsible for the international and local political environment, which is marked by a number of unknowns associated with current migratory and refugee flows. All of these situations, including the smaller inflows of European funds in 2016, clearly limit the ability to provide ideal financial support to programme development priorities, but it is certainly possible to understand from the proposed budget proposal the clear priorities of the programming guidelines for the coming financial years. An important increase in budgetary resources is intended for the Ministry of the Interior and in this context for the police, which will provide financial support in the current situation for adequate security and investment and development in the completion of the staffing plan and modernisation of obsolete equipment and systems and premises. For the first time since 2010, the trend has also been halted by the decline in budgetary resources for defence, the increase in funds for the Slovenian Army and the Defence and Rescue Authority, the smooth participation of the country in international operations and missions, and the minimum investment development. There is also increasing funding for justice, which is a priority for improving the prison system as well as information and education in the judiciary, which is expected to help speed up judicial proceedings as well. The integral costs of the budget are also increased at the Ministry of Public Administration, a priority for the development of information systems and a project for the centralisation of real estate management. Depending on the success of drawing money from the coming new European financial perspective, the final budget weight of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which builds its priorities in the current financial framework on the promotion of Slovenia abroad, tourism, forestry and the elimination of administrative barriers. Given the current situation in the international business environment, however, there will have to be considerable and constant attention to concern for that part of further economic growth and competitiveness, which depends on export markets. There is no way in which a public hearing can be overlooked in the future before the days of the proposed package of measures to further promote the competitiveness and growth of the Slovenian economy, which should accelerate the economic initiative and encourage the multiple investment effects. For a few million euros, the resources for the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have also been increased, which, in the context of reducing unemployment and halting poverty, will allow for the release of some austerity measures for work and family policy and, we hope and hope, encourage reflection on socially fair and balanced labour, social and family policies in the future. The upcoming health budget, which does not yet include European cohesion funds, is increasing overall by 24% in 2016 and 35% in 2017, according to this year's rebalancing. Priority over the next two years will be given to major investment projects, including the continuation of the construction of Ljubljana and Ptujsko Urgenta, the rehabilitation of facilities in Stara Gora, the General Hospital of Slovenj Gradec, dispatch centres in Ljubljana and Maribor, the rehabilitation of the water supply at the Oncology Institute and equipment for several health institutions, the care of the performance of public health tasks, as set out in the Resolution on the National Food and Physical Activity Programme for Health 2015-2025, then the EHealth project, the reduction of waiting periods, the education and prevention programmes as a basis for improving the health status of residents. Taking further European funds into account, the total budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is also increasing, where the funding for higher education, which has finally been declining in recent years, is finally re-energizing. The funds will also increase for other areas of education and sport. The same orientation for both annual budgets will be to ensure quality, openness and integration of the core with the economy. The budget resources of the Ministry of Infrastructure account for 7% of the total budget, and their final level will depend substantially on the success of the European funds, which are planned in the budget of the government, which is responsible for cohesion. Priority is given to increasing funding for investment road maintenance in this sector. In particular, as a result of the fall in European funds in 2016, the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Space is falling, although this does not decrease overall in relation to the balance of the past two years. In this area, good cooperation and understanding with the municipalities will be very important for further programming priorities, including, in particular, flood security and protection, so that all available European cohesion funds will be used successfully in addition to the clear distribution of financial responsibilities. Funding for agriculture, forestry and nutrition, representing 4% of the total national budget, is also increasing. This is a high obligation and a expectation to promote conditions for food supply, an economic initiative and the conservation of agricultural, forestry and fisheries activities as a national sustainable potential. Integral resources are also increasing in the area of culture compared to the previous period, which is important in terms of policy considerations on fundamental eligibility and future priorities of Slovenian culture as a pillar of national identity. At a level similar to that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the protection of Slovenian interests in the international community, economic diplomacy, assistance, security and protection of the interests of Slovenian citizens abroad and our country's contribution to ensuring international security and stability remain among the priorities of action. Finally, it should be pointed out that, in the context of the various sources, at least at the current level, they remain, and sometimes they are increasing, budgetary resources to ensure the operation of national minorities and Slovenians around the world, which can only be fertilised in terms of the effectiveness of European funds. We are aware that it is a great responsibility before all of us in the given circumstances to ensure, through joint efforts and cooperation, the further stability of our country and the basis for measures of long-term economic, social and sustainable security, growth and competitiveness based on knowledge and innovation of the future. We also particularly welcome the fact that the budget, in the light of the wider internal and external circumstances exposed, reflects constructive consensus within the government, among the social partners of the public sector, unfortunately we regret the information just received that this effort and dialogue has not been possible to establish with representatives of local communities, but we wish and hope that the final agreement to the draft budget will also be given by the legislative branch of the government. From everything mentioned in the Modern Centre Party Group, we believe that the draft budget under consideration for the next two years is an appropriate financial basis for the country's upcoming programming orientations, and that is why we will support it. During the budget debate, MEPs and MPs of the Modern Centre Group will argue our single decision both with a financial and programme perspective and call on the Government or individual ministries to make even more effective use of it, compared to the previous period by 20% of the lower but still significant €3.2 billion of the European financial perspective, from which the country is expected to draw €510 million in 2016 and €600 million in 2017. So, good luck next two years to the Slovenian budget and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministerial assembly, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the budget memorandum and the budget for 2016 and 2017, we are, of course, talking about what the current government will show us and what it will give us in the next two years. In this regard, it is important to also find out what its vision is, what its strategy is and what its economic policies are, last but not least, on the basis of which different policies are based; both investment, development, cultural, health, social, infrastructure and so on, last but not least, the policy dealing with external issues, the European Union, the migration problem. In short, everything that makes life better, more relaxed, more favourable or less favourable for the inhabitants and residents of this country. What can people get from this budget, what vision and what strategy does the current government give us? And on the other hand, what can economic operators get from this budget? Here we can say that there is no clear perspective for people and no clear vision is given. Even with the changes in the budget, it is unclear whether they will live in the future more securely or less securely, better or worse. It is also unclear how the economy will operate; with greater burdens or less burdens. In short, there is no long-term action in this budget, no vision, no economic policies that would actually give a perspective to all of us, and especially to the economy, young people, unemployed people, farmers, economists. What evidence do you have in this regard? Here, the revenue side of the budget must first be looked at. If we look at the revenue side of the budget, of course we can't pass taxes. What has happened in the past year and year and a half? Taxes were mainly raised. They have increased their burdens mainly on people, as taxes have shifted to final consumers or to citizens and citizens. Let us start by increasing the tax on financial services, which increased from 6,5 % to 8,5 %. We must be aware that this tax is finally paid by the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia, when they benefit from a certain banking or financial service. Just like when we're talking about insurance services. Taxation also increased from 6,5 % to 8,5 % for these services. In other words, the country has received more from them. If we are already in the case of indirect taxes, then we can find that, even with the last measure, when extending the provisional value added tax measure to a fixed value, the Government has actually increased the taxation from the previous 20 %, which was valid two years ago, to 22 % for all products or services, or for the lower products from 8,5 % to 9,5 %. It's a reality. These are economic conditions, these are living conditions. If we think that all of these taxes have the so-called regressive effect, which means, in other words, that they pay it more socially weak than their income less socially weak, then we can also find that the social situation in this country can be worse. Here, the social component of this tax is certainly controversial for both the economy and the population, and probably not the right tax measures that would actually affect the larger social state. If we continue, and if we find that even with income, this government has abolished the revalorisation by raising or living costs, then it has acquired an additional 30 million here, but this 30 million again at the expense of the people. All of these were temporary measures taken during our biggest crisis, today the Prime Minister, the ministerial assembly is talking about that we are no longer in the crisis, that we have economic growth, that we have a better business environment, but the tax burden is getting worse. It is also sharpened if we look at excise policy – and today I can tell you peacefully that it costs a litre of petrol in Grosuplje 1.21 cents almost 1.22, in Beljak it costs 1.09 cents. What does that mean? That we are uncompetitive and that the country is also getting less excise and less value added tax and that, of course, many carriers are avoiding our gas stations and are not actually filling tanks in our country, but somewhere else, but they are driving on our roads. If we are also talking about what is coming or about so-called tax restructuring, then we can find that so-called investment reliefs or halves, as well as facilitations for R & D and, of course, loads will increase when people, say, sell real estate, housing and so on. The patch, in short, that people will get more money on the basis of greater efficiency, is a very poor comfort, especially because the conditions of management for businesses will actually be poor. These are evidence of the strategy and vision of this government. These are actual measures, this is not talking, this is what citizens pay every day, every moment when they buy products or services. Promises about a better business environment to improve the tax process, to facilitate the payment of taxes, to reduce administrative barriers to licensing and to make justice work better can, of course, be sand in the eyes if they are not backed by facts. In fact, citizens and citizens cannot live on speaking, nor can they live on promises. When they meet in reality with administration, with bureaucracy, then the situation is completely different and gives us no perspective and does not give us some business ambition. The consequences of this and the consequences of this environment are the outflow of capital, companies leaving Slovenia and this famous enterprise. Educators are leaving Slovenia – I think about 8,000 graduates have left in the last period – the domestic capital is not invested in Slovenia, but abroad; in short, people are leaving. We will, of course, speed up or accelerate some of them to move abroad, as with regard to staff policy in the Banks Claims Management Company and negative personnel decisions in SDH. In view of this, ladies and gentlemen, that we have somehow presented what is supposed to happen in the future in the area of revenue, allow me to speak briefly about expenditure. Before that, I would like to point out that there are a lot of systemic uncertainties in this budget. Firstly, it is not in line with the Public Finance Act. As we know today, we do not know how much we will give for the congregations, how much we will give for the congregations, especially where people are most benefiting from their services. Because we do not know this, the law is also contrary to the Public Finance Act. In addition, it is also questionable what is happening with the Fiscal Rule Act. In fact, the fiscal world doesn't work here and in fact the government has not made an effort to even make calculations at the beginning on how the fiscal rule will work. Furthermore, the Government did not present either in the budget memorandum or in particular the forecast for the four cash registers; the pension allowance, the health treasury, the municipality and, of course, the state budget, this was presented. Our use of EU funds will be worse than in the past. In the financial perspective 2015-2020 For this financial perspective, we do not even have the documents to present them in Brussels to the European Commission, irrespective of whether the way is changed and that means that we will have to give certain evidence by 2018. [[…]] We don't even have programs here. This is the reality, which means we'll get less money than we could get, and less money than we should. Of course, this is a reflection of the functioning of this government. The Public Finance Supervisory Commission has concluded that the budgetary documents are not in fact complete and that the Government should complete these budgetary documents. In fact, it is found that this budget is not in line with the Public Finance Act, I am talking about four cash registers, and of course also with the Fiscal Rule Act. If we look a little bit across the sectors on the expenditure side. The economy, when we talk about investments, the index in 2016 is minus 1.8%. I believe that some prefer absolute numbers, and in absolute numbers everything actually increases because income also increases. However, the index minus 1.8% in the field of investment actually means a reduction, regardless of whether or not there is a strategy in the area of economic policy. While entrepreneurship funds are increasing by 21 million in 2016, on the other hand they are actually shrinking significantly in 2017 and there is no stop, there is no point of reference between 2016 and 2017. Strengthening competitiveness will not, therefore, and also new jobs will not be created only for this reason. If we look at the next sector, which is also important for Slovenia – agriculture. There are no structural reforms, no visions of development, and last but not least, funds in agriculture will fall seriously in 2017. And what is, say, a structural change? There is probably a reform in the area of food production, in the area of self-sustainment. This is how crops and fields are growing and, instead of being smaller, there are more and more of them in Slovenia, and lastly, we also have at least fields and fields per inhabitant in the European Union. It is similar in the area of forest management and, of course, rural development. If we are talking about infrastructure, then, of course, those frozen projects that were frozen in 2013, when the crisis was worst, are still in fact still frozen. There are no new road links, such as from Dravograd to Shentrupert. It is not fast enough, nor is it planned fast enough in the field of rail infrastructure. I also welcome in one way the fact that more money will be earmarked for the police. But the question is whether that's enough. Will it be enough for the police according to the current security situation in Slovenia? Just covering the police's work from the budget reserve, as planned, and as has been said here, is not really enough. An even more difficult question and an even worse issue is the area of defence. The area of defence – and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Slovenia pointed out the unacceptable situation in the area of defence. The government's promises to Secretary General Stoltenberg to increase the share of defence funding are also questionable, as defence funds are falling from 2015 to 2016 by 0.03% of gross social product. In fact, it raises the question of who is in the interest that the funds are getting smaller and that the defence capacity of Slovenia is always weaker, given the promises we made years ago, and also the decisions that we will make for security and for the defence of 2% of gross social product, and today, it is seen as some misplaced vision. But it is also currently declining here, although in today's international situation it is necessary to ensure, even with additional means of defence, greater sovereignty of Slovenia, especially greater security, especially in order for soldiers to have modern equipment. Here is the question if I look at the conclusions of the Committees of the National Assembly as well as how security funds will increase for both the police, the military and the anti-intelligence services. Today, security becomes a value. This value, ladies and gentlemen, costs and needs to be protected! This budget does not guarantee this. Despite the fact that the Minister of Finance has said that we will give an additional 123 million to migration to give 123 million more, of which 73 million, I understand, will be contributed by the European Union. Is that actually enough? Is that enough given the current situation and the latest events in Paris? If we look at EU funding, we can see once again that this is a setback. Even if we look at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we do not see a strategy to reduce poverty. In fact, real incomes are higher there, in fact real expenditure will also be higher, but we do not see a strategy to reduce poverty, social exclusion, especially active employment and active education for people, especially those who are able to work and will be able for a long time, and especially in the direction required by the economy required by entrepreneurs at the moment, and which also means additional education and training. In short, the linkage of this strategy is actually too small and too much red tape, administration. There is also a question of reorganisation of employment institutions, but here I think something is not quite done, at least it is not in the budget or in the strategy. This is similar in the field of education. Will education adapt to the economy, or will we have graduates who are unemployed, whom we know to be unemployable, even when they are enrolled in college? In recent times, in recent years, 8,000 graduates, according to some information, have left this country. The 8,000 people we trained left this country! I think that there could certainly be some strategic priority for this government in the field of education, in conjunction with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities to reduce social exclusion, to reduce poverty and to approach active employment, particularly those trained, in order to effectively prevent economic solutions from leaving the country. This is not actually in this budget and is not in the budget documents. As well as there are no health-care measures. There is nowhere to see that we will have better health, a better organised health ministry, a health network and so on and that waiting lines will be reduced. Unfortunately, we are witnessing more or less in the media affairs than some measures that would improve health care and health insurance for people. And that's necessary, that's what they say, and that's what they promise. As I recall, the Minister of Health at the Commission's meeting to oversee public finances, I think in the spring, she promised a health reform of the month of September. These are the issues that are topical and interesting to people, entrepreneurs and economists. And of course, because I mentioned the business conditions, what life will be like, what services will be like, what are the prospects for young people, on the other hand, what is the security issue? We can probably agree today that the strategy is here somewhere, we can do something else, we have no objection, and the government is in favour of preparing it. If we go to some other balance sheets B and C and so on, then we find that the debt will continue. As has been said today, we will be in debt for 4.1 billion in 2016 and repay the debt for 2.9 billion euros; it is said to be an active debt. In doing so, the new item, as I understand it, is that we will be in charge of EUR 50 million for migrants, the migrant crisis, as the Minister of Finance said today. And the constant debt is worrying. Not only is it worrying, it means dependence, it means less autonomy and sovereignty for the country. The question is, when are we going to call it the end? This, ladies and gentlemen, is in fact not in this budget memorandum. It would be in the best interests of the country not to pay as much as 1.3 billion interest this year as we are actually paying, just interest. If we are indebted and actively indebted today, tomorrow, tomorrow, the following year and so on, 2020 will not pay more than 1.3 billion interest, but in the coming years we will pay 1.5 billion, 2 billion and so on and so on. This spinning wheel is spinning, and in fact this government can't. Banks are probably stable today too – there's nothing here. Citizens and citizens paid for it about a year and a half ago, five billion for two years and Banka Slovenije's policy is the same as it is. It is true, however, that the concept of the operation and resolution of this crisis also changes with the amendment of legislation to the Bank's Claims Management Company. Indeed, there is a new task of restructuring and extending the entire period. After all, we now have two companies in the area of asset management: the Slovenian State Holding Company, the Company for Bank Claims Management, will now do one and the same, in addition to having Kad, a special company that deals with it and so on. In short, rationalisation in this area has not been sufficiently done; more, let's go back. As a result, I do not think that it will be more efficient to manage assets, nor will it be more efficient to privatise, and certainly this assessment of the international situation of Slovenia will change in the future. Well, you shouldn't! Very small changes could actually change that. I have already mentioned and in some ways have not objected to the preparedness for the migration crisis and the refugee crisis. However, does the budget for 2016 and the budget for 2017 and the strategy for this management give us enough? I have already mentioned 123 million, also mentioned by the Minister of Finance, for migrants, under the assumption, as the Minister of Finance has also said that 8 000 to 9 000 refugees per day go through Slovenia. However, there are also figures in the Slovenian public that some migrants or people coming from other countries will remain in Slovenia. One issue, published in the media, is 30,000, the other number is 50,000. According to the Minister of Finance, one migrant per year costs us 10,000 euros. That's 500 million a year. Is the budget adapted to that? Whether the budget is adjusted, because then – I speak slightly from a distance, if you also want sarcastic distances – then the debt of EUR 50 million for migrants is actually too small. Here Slovenia has already committed itself, as I understand, for 50 million for these purposes. That's too little, of course. However, we need to know that one percentage point of the value added tax increase brings between € 120 and 130 million. This raises the question of how we will finance any such solutions if they are actually made. This is what the whole of Europe is facing. In Austria, the calculation is that such a cost in Austria amounts to 12 000 euros, in Germany 22,000 euros per capita per year, in Sweden 44 000 per capita per year. I do not want to make any comparisons here on these assessments, and I will not do them today – but do the 2016 and 2017 budgets also include such solutions? I don't think so, and I don't think that Slovenia has an active policy in the area of the migration crisis. In fact, here is the question of which things may surprise us and whether they will surprise us as well. Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes it is difficult to measure certain acts that occur either in Slovenia or abroad or in Europe with expenditure, they are difficult to measure by increasing taxes, but at Friday's war, as French President Hollande said, there is a great question of how we will react in Slovenia. On the one hand, I am glad that the government is thinking about it, but thinking is not enough. At such times, action must be taken; it is better to act sooner than later. For security, I have already mentioned security, as a good thing, not only is it a direct guarantee of human security and property, but it is also a guarantee that we have a secure existing democratic regime, that we are free, that we enjoy and value our cultural and other goods. Today, if we're talking about the acts of war, then these things are being attacked. For this reason, it is also necessary to show through the budget that we will also pay special attention to these goods. This expenditure, this, this strategy, this policy is not in this budget today. It is necessary to be aware, as the President of the National Assembly has already said: in recent events, fear prevails; but fear never definitively wins. Courage and, above all, the courage of the leaders depend on how strong this fear is and how long this fear will last. Today we are talking about fear and courage, and it is up to the leaders of this country how strong this fear will be, especially how brave they have. What a vision, what a strategy they have and unfortunately I do not see in these programming documents today, in this budget, a vision of courage and less fear in this country. Of course, compassion and humanity must be shown, but let us not forget security and progress. In 2016 and 2017, Slovenia will, in my opinion, have to provide additional money for the military, for the police, for services engaged in anti-intelligence activities. It should also relieve the economy, not burden it further. We should make people's lives more beautiful and, above all, much more relaxed. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets for 2016 and for 2017 do not give either a vision or a strategy, they do not set objectives in the field of economic policy, nor do they set all the objectives that we should actually show, show even fewer ways to achieve these objectives. And since the budget for 2016 and 2017 does not give this, strategy, vision, security, enough security, we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we recommend to the current government a little more ambition and a little more courage so that all of us in this country will be better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good greetings to the assembly of the government, greetings to the Members and Members and to all in the Hall! The sustainability of public finances is a priority for all governments, and the current government has further strengthened this principle by adopting legislation on fiscal rules that will not allow us to spend more in the years ahead than we have put into the Treasury. At the end of the month, each household is pleased to have some euro left in its home budget. At that time, additional expenditure is planned with joy and without bad conscience, and I regret to admit that there are more and more households that do not know such monthly savings and barely travel from month to month. It is precisely because of the bad situation that we would be pleased if such a joy of a carefree distribution of financial resources could also be possible in the state budget, but the circumstances still do not allow excessive spending or excessive annual savings. This time we will serve the Desus Group with a saying that an empty bag alone cannot stand up. First, it must be filled and then distributed fairly and equally. The measures for charging state treasury were never liked, so the obvious and rejection of the means by which it is easier to convince the public and play on a vulnerable social card. Currently, the most receptive and influential measures relate to the reform of tax reform. It started with the adoption of tax receipts and will continue with the retention of the fourth income class, which we have worked best for in the DeSUS Group. For all of this, next year's revenue is projected at €8.7 billion, which is 73 million more than in the 2016 initial draft budget. In view of the current poor conditions caused by the refugee crisis, we need to push our strength even further and rid ourselves of the selfish grabbing of the best piece of the common budget cake and also distribute it among those more needed. In this light, we have complemented the budget in a way that provides more resources to address the problem. Expenditure in the 2016 supplementary draft budget is hereby increased by EUR 123 million. This year we finally saw that economic indicators have begun to show positive signals – a glimpse of incentives for recovery and further development of the economy. In the opinion of the Desus Group, this is still not enough to breathe easily. Things need to be seen real. When preparing one of the country's most important acts, we cannot look through the pink glasses and improve the situation by explaining that the budget will be designed to be ideal for all stakeholders. He's never been, and he probably won't be. Arrangements and negotiations are a long and painful process, most often the most complicated in the state transfer to municipalities. It is not surprising, therefore, that the State Council does not support the proposed budget, since it is very strong in protecting the interests of representatives of local communities. Dissatisfaction is also reflected in slightly less projected investments because the financial period for drawing on funds from the European Union has ended. Despite slightly more promising macroeconomic forecasts, however, we must not be blinded to the fact that the problem is over. Poor social conditions in the country will not disappear overnight. This is more than crystal clear for us in the Group of Members, but we will work at all times to gradually ease the situation. A just social state in all respects and not just on the pensioners' side. Our Slovenia is made up of different profiles of people, different generations, and each one deserves a decent and quality life. Unfortunately, however, no political action has gone without financial consequences. We are trying to make the latter as generous as possible on the state budget. The task is getting harder, but we don't lack the courage. If we look at the pension register for a moment. As a result of higher employment and the introduction of contributions to student work, the impact on pension funds from these headings will increase, while this means that the country will allocate less resources from the budget to the PSI for more than 100 million euros. The sustainability of the pension register is not jeopardised by this. We are quite pleased with the proposed budgets in the Desus Group. After a long time, and with great bargaining efforts, we have managed to achieve that our pensioners will be much more pleased, with the long-awaited extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. Remember, when the 2015 budget rebalancing and ZIPRS 2015-2016 were adopted, and later when the fiscal rule law was adopted, the support of the Desus Group was very questionable, in particular as to whether pensions would be coordinated next year in the event that economic growth exceeds 2.5% in the previous year. Since the condition has been met and we have even received a public assurance that extraordinary reconciliation of pensions will be carried out, we are in the Desus Group on the adoption of budgets that we no longer have any reservations. As we have already said, circumstances are constantly changing and it is unrealistic to expect that all competent ministries will be satisfied with the proposed budgetary cuts. In the Desus Group, we are aware that the reallocation of financial resources is extremely difficult and responsible, which everyone is not in favour of. To whom and how much to give is a constant question, while appetites and interests are increasing. Nevertheless, we believe that the task has been successfully accomplished, so Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported unanimously by the draft budgets for 2016 and 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a debate on budgets for 2016 and 2017. However, before we have started or begun it, I hope that it will be done constructively, it is even more important to see the processes that have fuelled the budgetary extensions of past years. Without looking at this, unfortunately, it will not be possible to be credible, but especially to take a real look at the upcoming budget documents. More than with the policies and policies of individual governments, past budgets have been burdened by negative economic growth indicators and related international environmental orientations, requiring restrictions and consolidation of public finances. It is misleading to believe that the budgets are just a political document of the ruling coalition, without looking at the legacy of the previous budgets and the economic, social and public financial environment in which these two documents were produced. This understanding needs to be avoided in advance by some flat-rate performances. How we can set up the budget treasury on the wings of current economic growth. so that all expectations are met; so economic on one hand and social security on the other. The budget documents, which have been marked by a tendency to tighten up in previous years, have set up good guidelines that we have previously set out to a greater extent within the framework of our wishes, needs and capabilities. The possibilities of individual governments in relation to the development of budgetary documents in crisis years, particularly in countries that have been and are largely absent from the impacts of the international environment, have been reversed in relation to negative economic factors. So, the bigger the budget hole became, the more we lost, the less realistic the possibility of creating budgets just for the purposes of a ruling policy. This has also reduced the longer term strategy for the development of Slovenia. This is closely linked to the budgets in which, in addition to the items for the next two years, the view of the basic subsystems of our society is reflected. The fiscal rule that we have adopted is now an important extension of these two budgets, but it must not become the only guide that merely limits, without seriously considering where we must put these restrictions. This consideration can only be achieved through agreement with key stakeholders. Without an agreement, today we would have better budget numbers on paper, with fewer deficits, estimated at 1.98% of GDP for 2016, and 1,74% of GDP for 2017 after the so-called cash flow, as taught by the Minister of Finance. At the same time, they would be faced with a high risk that the budget would not be realized or that additional costs related to the inability to agree would be incurred. It is precisely the agreement that the Social Democrats have highlighted as a prerequisite through which budgets can be drawn up in realistically sustainable documents. For we had already had lessons when the desire for short-term deficit reduction was caught in the trap, but it proved to be a problem for the longer term. Unilateral behaviour is thus reflected with great certainty in the long-term inability to optimally operate the basic subsystems of the State. Trust in dialogue is thus the best way to adopt these budgets. The government's dialogue with the public sector unions may, for a short period of time, only be measured by numbers, and on a longer term, ladies and gentlemen, is crucial for a common search for solutions regarding the release of past strains and the search for some new guidelines. The proposal for amendments to the Environmental Protection Act also required consideration. The proposal to transfer concessions from local to state treasury funds has always been opposed by the Social Democrats. The municipalities of Drava, Savi and Sochi would be heavily supported by such a solution, especially when these funds represent a significant proportion of their budgets. Social Democrats therefore welcome the withdrawal of the proposal. We are aware, however, that changes will be needed mainly with regard to flood measures; these are now more or less implemented under the project tasks system, rather than having a long-term sustainable mode of financing. There is no need to stress the need for a sustainable and developmental way of financing. In the light of savings, these municipalities have been repeatedly exposed to measures which, if we want to admit it or not, are also reflected at national level. In the most difficult years, the investment potential was largely realized by the municipalities. It would be a crime to match this potential with some hand-to-hand measures. The agreement on the average level is therefore not only necessary for the implementation of the budget, it will have a significant share in the further reflection on the competences and tasks of our municipalities. In this difficulty, the State has indirectly imposed greater financial burdens on them than they do, and the uncertainty of the municipalities in forecasting reductions of averages is, of course, understandable. We will also have to respond to the dilemmas related to Article 54 of the Budget Implementation Act, which places the status of the municipal municipalities in an unequal position because of their specifics. We have warned and warned the Social Democrats about this today. To these congregations, the State must, if it does so, repay this manna, even in aiding investment or in facilitating debt, because the equation, in order to save the state, is wrong for my notions. For the results of this equation will be a loss for all; both for the municipalities and for the country and, of course, for citizens and citizens. The short-sightedness of the effects on the one hand and the selective orientation of the measure on the other side favoured our opposition to the abolition of the fourth income class. To relieve those who deserve the most and others coming in a little later, he was and remains an unacceptable measure for the Social Democrats. In particular, if this measure were to justify the planned temporaryity of 2012 on the reserve track in order to leave a number of measures pending economic growth and also to wait for the government to leave them frozen. Social Democrats cannot and will not agree to the tax exemption of the richest, so that the rest, especially the lower and middle classes, bear the relatively maximum tax burden. We therefore expect the adoption of a new law on income before the new year as part of the so-called mini tax reform. We insist on the view that, despite the conditions imposed on us by international institutions in the floods of public financial collapse, we must not accept the idea that the social state is no longer an economy and that the task of the budget is simply to respond to the public financial situation. This is all the more important in this crucial time when the scale is finally overturned in favour of the development of budgets with longer-term growth adapters against the short-term patching of a large budget gap, thanks to favourable economic forecasts and a more stable domestic political space. We have to say that this forced struggle between the social state and the economy is somehow over with this budget. We can also detach ourselves from the mantra, that social is always too much, and investment is always too little, that cuts, subtraction and contractions are a miracle cure for every budget, especially those who have an additional alibi still in passed laws. We cannot go beyond the so-called ZUJF or the balance of public finances here. It is this one, ladies and gentlemen, who, at the short-term reception, has really stabilised the public financial position and has diminished the consideration of the long-term consequences. Because, in the first place, he was responding to the time of the crisis years, and in 2015 it remained more than a violation or becoming a problem. Finally, we see this through the prism of drawing up today's or current budgets. At the beginning of the composition of these in the light of the necessary strengthening of the social framework in our country, we have insisted that we should focus all efforts on abandoning past and other economic conditions of the austerity measures taken. They also fulfil the commitments made by the Public Finance Balance Act on behalf of economic growth through gradual but continuous release. We insist that without these commitments, it was not possible to draw up acceptable budgets; budgets that would be sustainable, which is even more important, which could pave the way for a stable recovery. Recovery, which is not primarily conditioned by cutting rights, but by a vision that only a country with a suitable social backdrop and a promise can take care of stable economic growth. This, however, takes a certain time to move into the lives of our citizens and citizens, and the country must, by its actions, ensure that this spill is primarily aimed at people and not merely at correcting the numbers by which we meet the expectations of the international community. Thus, under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, we have insisted on the release of certain measures that have been curtailed by the so-called ZUJF. By proposing amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act, we raise the amount of minimum income. The results of the ministry under the auspices of Anja Kopač Dark show that the social accounts are excessive to take away the economy. With an effective active employment policy measure, unemployment is constantly falling, all numbers showing this. The Labour Market Intervention Action Act continues the Ministry's policy of activating the most vulnerable groups of the population in incentives for the employment of long-term unemployed persons over 55 years of age. The dynamics of such measures of the Ministry generate positive effects both in improving the social and economic climate in Slovenia. In this context, it is worth noting that the Ministry has also chosen funds for 3 000 800 new state grants, as well as the release of the 5th and 6th income classes, which means an increase in the amount of the child allowance to the level before all these austerity measures are implemented. We Social Democrats have also insisted on agreeing on a new anchor to defrost other social policy measures, which, of course, some would like as a permanent measure. Slovenia is forecasting stable economic growth next year. This, I believe, has had an important impact on the formulation of these two budgets, and the government may have taken the initial steps too much under the impression of reaching plans to reduce the deficit below that magic limit of 3% of GDP. We are pleased that today, at the final adoption of the budget for the coming years, we have more stability, and above all the greater sovereignty of these two documents. It has thus been strengthened that the agreement must have priority over unilateral interventions, that the social state is not an obstacle to further aspirations for the stability of public finances. We are pleased that the trend of reducing defence spending has been halted, that it has seceded from budget policy in a short-term way only in the fear of meeting the fiscal commitments of some cutting; that we will adopt a stable and, in the given options, a good budgetary framework within which the path of creation can be mapped and not just the path of adaptation. From all of this, we will also support the Social Democrats of the 2016 and 2017 budget, which are following this to a good extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the United Left, this budget is assessed in terms of social needs. For us, the main question is whether the budget meets these needs or not. Unfortunately, our conclusion is no, and therefore we cannot support the budget. Indeed, for us, priority areas of vital importance for society and have deteriorated in recent years due to austerity policies. As key priorities in the United Left on this site, they would highlight, for the first time, social protection, secondly, health care and thirdly, development policies. If we look at each of these areas separately. Looking ahead to social issues, it is difficult to close our eyes to poverty and the prospect that has unfortunately taken over our country. For the past two years, we have had a record rate of poverty in the last 25 years, today there are 65,000 people living in poverty more than in 2007, while poverty is also getting worse. It is not only that more poor, poorer and poorer people are becoming poorer as a result of austerity policies and the continuous contractions of social life. We also have higher unemployment today than in 1993, which is at the most critical moment of the current transition crisis, which is why the first priority we set ourselves must be the fight against poverty, while we must be aware that poverty will not end economic growth on its own. This proved in 2008 when, despite record growth on the other hand, we saw an increase of 16 000 poor people. It must also be acknowledged that the health system today not only staggers but is going backwards. The health system, which once existed as one of the best in the world, is now in a state where more than 200,000 patients are waiting for intervention or investigation, or waiting species are currently 17% larger than last year. The main reason for this is financial undernutrition, especially bottlenecks arising from a lack of investment. All investments in recent years have been focused on new construction and emergency medicine, with completely neglected clinics and equipment. Third area, development. It is not difficult to find here that, unfortunately, we have given ourselves a lost decade in Slovenia. From 2005 to 2008, we had growth without development and after 2008 recessions and stagnations. This must be answered by a decisive increase in state investment by a decisive decision to invest in development. If we look at these three areas now, it is said, social, health and development, in the United Left that the draft budget in all three areas is simply too short, even in the fiscal rules set by the Government itself. Let me go back to the fields. In the social field, we need to look at what needs are. The minimum needs – I am talking about the minimum cost of living – were calculated in 2009, when they were calculated by the Ministry of Labour. At that time, they made it very clear: in this country, a minimum existence requires EUR 385 and should be provided by the state as a matter of urgency. In 2009, the government then reduced this amount to 308 euros, but in the end we reached 289 euros and from ZUJF to 260 euros; it is said that 125 euros are under the calculated minimum costs. Now there are two years of growth behind us, the minimum wage is no longer €460 as it was in 2009, and the budget needed to raise the minimum cost of living to €385, as calculated, would require €60 million. This is not a small amount of money, especially not a small amount of money from an individual's point of view, but when we speak from a budgetary point of view, if there was political will, we could find these funds very quickly, and I will return to this point later to show how. If I move on, to another area — health. In 2016, the health budget will be 27 million lower than this year's. This means that in 2016 and 2017, when the situation is not better, they will not invest urgently in hospitals and clinical centres in order to remove bottlenecks. Our health system will continue to be underfunded, waiting types will continue to grow, health care, which once served as the pride of this society, will continue to stagnate or even deteriorate. Unfortunately, we note that, from this point of view, the budget is simply insufficient and there is no reason why the Government did not devote these additional EUR 27 million to remain at least this year's level, but simply decided to go back. Further, development. The budget cuts investment by €335 million this year and investment in education by €30 million. Thus, two key components of growth, especially in these years when economic growth is still fragile, when it is not clear whether we have been permanently withdrawn from the recession or is only temporary recovery, the responsible government should clearly set public investment priorities, invest in development in order to get the economy out of the crisis. But with these cuts, it's said, 335 million less for investment, and it's simply a risk that we'll find ourselves in the third recession, which many economists have already pointed out. At this point, I would like to emphasise that there is an alternative. And the alternative is feasible without further deleveraging and without increasing the deficit. In the National Assembly by the Government, we often hear that there is simply no money to respond to all these needs that have now been exposed; it is said, to social, health and development, to fight poverty, to fight health and to end this crisis. But this is simply not true, and this time I must remind you that the budget is not only cost-effective but also profitable. And at the income level, the country or government in the draft budget has made no effort to increase its revenue and thus to provide funds for the three key areas I have described. If we look at just a few cases. We now have a situation in Slovenia where work is substantially overtaxed, we have substantially too much indirect taxes, such as VAT and excise duties, and much less is taxed capital, property and wealth. Even if we look at this in the European context, we will see that we are, for example, 27th place in the European Union as a whole, after income from capital and capital revenues into the European Union's own budget. After the capital taxes collected, for example, the European Union countries collect 20% of all tax revenues, while Slovenia collects 10; we are said to be worse once after income or after effective capital taxation, such as comparable European countries. In here, if we just look at capital taxes, we find reserves very quickly. Currently in Slovenia we have a 17% tax rate on the income of legal persons. In neighbouring Austria, they have 25%, in Italy they have 27 and a half, and we have 17. If I were to raise this rate to just 20%, it would be 17 to 20, which would still be below the average of the European Union, which is 22.5, which would generate almost 87 million additional funds in the budget. With this money, we could respond virtually immediately to at least two of the priorities I highlighted; we could raise the minimum cost of living and end the suffering of the many living below the poverty line, provide additional health resources and reduce waiting types. If the Government were more determined here and decided that instead of talking about the abolition of the fourth income class, which I hope is now completely out of the agenda – it would decide to lower the threshold for the fourth income class to a European comparable level, we would propose in the United Left to EUR 38 000 per year from the current 71 000, thus covering three percent of the most paid people in Slovenia and to provide an additional 35 million euros in the budget, which could go straight to investment or education. These are very simple moves, they would be quite painless, but simply the government did not show the will to make them happen. This is also the main problem of this budget, because the obstacle to development is not a lack of alternatives, it is an obstacle to the Government, which simply does not want to cut into the incomes of the wealthy, in the interests of capital, in the taxation of luxury and property. Rather, it will insist on higher VAT rates, which have proven to be significantly more vulnerable to the weakest, those with the smallest income, than, say, changing the threshold for the fourth income class; rather, it will continue to maintain high excise duties rather than to question the possibility of taxes on property. In short, the reasons or obstacles in this budget are not economic; they are classy. The government does not want to deviate from the interests of capital and the best-paid, that is to say, these interests are a line for it, which it does not intend to cross at any cost. In the budget documents, the Government has, inter alia, stated that the budget will ensure a sufficient level of fairness and social inclusion. In fact, we have budgets that avoid it on the income side as the devil's cross. On the expenditure side, we have received budgets that contain social assistance and protection allowances at a level which are 100 euros lower than the identified needs and 315 euros below the poverty threshold, while on the other hand we have a completely medal and an indecisive budget on the revenue side. If I go further, in the United Left, as I have pointed out many times, we see the main problem of this budget in its revenues, but on the other hand we could significantly improve it at the level of expenditure; it is said that herbs would set priorities. I have already described three; it is said, social protection, health care and development. In the meantime, we have proposed other amendments in the United Left, in particular to draw attention to areas not sufficiently addressed by this budget. It is said that we should draw attention to those areas where the Government has not properly allocated the 9.4 billion resources it has available in this budget. These areas are, and we will present them more precisely in the amendments, so that I will now only take them briefly. The first is international development aid. At European level, we agree that countries will provide 0.33% of their GDP for the purpose of international development assistance. Slovenia currently provides 0.13. Such a mediocre policy in the area of this assistance is one of the reasons why we are facing the crisis and the humanitarian disaster that we are already talking about in the house today practically all day. In view of the fact that a few thousand kilometres south of us people are still dying because of hunger and curative diseases; that, on the other hand, we have a whole region between Morocco and Iran destabilised in wars and political conflicts; this is also due to the fact that developed countries – and Slovenia as a member of the European Union – are among them – have had a completely stepmotherly relationship with these countries, neo-colonialist relations, did not provide opportunities for development and, last but not least, have contributed significantly to the creation of the conflicts that people are fleeing from today. In short, significantly more effective than NATO's bombs will be the link to international development assistance to stabilise and regulate life to some normal level in these countries. Then let's move on. Now in Paris, there will be a short conference on climate change, which we all know is one of the greatest risks in the medium term not only for humanity, but for our planet. In this area, too, the Government has made no effort in the budget, and we propose, with the second amendment, that at least a few means be provided to adapt to climate change in agriculture. Then, in the field of the Ministry of Labour, we stress two priorities. The first is that more investment in education and training should be made in the prevention or reduction of unemployment this year, where funds are drastically shrinking this year, and the government is voicing that they are shrinking due to the fact that they are counting on European funds, but that is not yet provided, so this should be addressed in view of the fact that we still still have one of the highest unemployment rates in the history of this country. Secondly, it is necessary to stop a wave of violations of labour rights, violations of labour law and neglect of health and safety at work. To this end, in the United Left, we propose to provide additional resources for the Labour Inspectorate, because today we are in a bizarre situation where 88 labour inspectors are supervised by 193,000 businesses operating in this country. Then, in the area of healthcare, I will not repeat myself, it is necessary to remove bottlenecks, to ensure investment and to reduce the types in which 200,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are waiting and to end in essence their agony and suffering. In the field of education, especially to invest more in development and research and essentially to ensure the reproduction of our higher education systems, as we are in a situation where, due to the lack of resources, these systems are almost no longer reproduced, and assistants remaining in colleges and young researchers are one of the most over-represented workers in this country. Then, in the area of culture, we allocate some additional resources to preserve cultural heritage and cultural programmes. In particular, we stress the importance of living culture, as the cultural market, unfortunately, produces a lot of junk and political propaganda. It is therefore crucial that the State, through its resources, allow for the quality development of this sector. In short, we cannot support these budgets in the United Left because of these manoeuvrings at the income level. The government obviously doesn't want to step on the interests of capital, wealth and luxury. At the expenditure level, it did not set clear priorities, significantly underinvesting in social, health and development. At the same time, it does not address other problems such as international development assistance, climate change, the problem of the reproduction of the education sector and so on. Therefore, we cannot support these budgets. We have been a constructive interlocutor in the debate on improving budgets, but we have not achieved much change for the better. One of our issues regarding sport infrastructure was involved, but everything else was overlooked, which is why we are concerned that Slovenia, with these budgets, is still on the road to losing the main quality of this society, which is that we are, according to the human development index, much more than GDP, measuring the real quality of life in a country, currently ahead of all Eastern European countries and in front of all Southern European countries, including Italy and Spain. But with such budgets, with such an undecided income policy, with indecisiveness at the level of prioritisation and lack of vision, we will probably live in a completely different society in 2020. In the United Left, we remind you of this, but we hope that in future you will take us into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Finance Dr. Marble, other representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The updated draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 are only the continuation of the seven-year tradition of budgetary policy and maintain the union peace and survival of this coalition over the next two years or until the end of the mandate, as we know that 2018 will be an electoral year unless all policies focus on completely different objectives. This government is also a prisoner of debate, mainly of the expenditure side of the budget. This government has also put a lot of effort into the spending side — that is to say, it has to be acknowledged. We are missing efforts at the revenue side of the budget. You have to create the money first and then share it. Where and how will we create the needed 60,000 new jobs? We need new 60,000 jobs, well paid, we are not interested in minimum wages, and then it will be easier to fill the pension, health checkout, the development of the school system and so on. We are for the social state, but the social state must be financed. Here, in the financing of the social state, there is definitely little effort made. In these two years, we expected the government coalition to make a reform breakthrough and a new business model that would finally put Slovenia on the path of the most economically developed countries and provide citizens with a rich and full life in a material and spiritual sense. The first half of the government's mandate is the right time, is the right time interval when the coalition has the biggest reform charge and could plan and implement the necessary reforms. And apparently, the coalition doesn't need that, and it's already missed that opportunity. What did Albert Einstein say? He said, "It's stupid to do the same thing and expect a different result." End of quote. Maintaining the existing business model certainly means the same or similar results, i.e. budgets with an annual current consumption deficit, a few more years, as far as this allows us to have a fiscal rule and a Stability and Growth Pact. The budget with a steady increase in public debt, as we know, is now above the magic 80% of gross domestic product and continuing spinning in a vicious circle. At the time of the presentation of the budgetary memorandum and further presentation of the budgetary documents on the working bodies of the National Assembly, the Government gave a central focus on the objective of reducing the budget deficit within the framework of the adopted Fiscal Rule Act and the Stability and Growth Pact. With the objective of maintaining the status quo in virtually all areas, this is the central focus of the budgetary documents. In our view, respect for fiscal frameworks is important, but budgetary documents should pursue the right objectives, other objectives such as economic performance and competitiveness, underline competitiveness, developmental orientation, optimisation of public financial expenditure, health reform, the necessary technological breakthrough of the Republic of Slovenia, all at the same time as the optimisation of public financial expenditure. What should the budgetary documents for the new business model include? In our view, the first priority is to ensure an appropriate business environment. As we have repeatedly stressed, only a well-functioning Slovenian economy will be able to draw us from the economic crisis. The economic growth that we recorded last year and this year is not the result of a good or at least a little improved environment, but an increase in our companies' exports, and a large part of economic growth can certainly be attributed to the completion of European cohesion projects that have been carried out in the Republic of Slovenia. At least there has been no government action in this area so far. The economic growth that we recorded in 2014 is the optimism we feel and must feel and it must be acknowledged honestly, but we must also admit that in 2014 we still created by 0.16% less than in 2008, which means that we practically had 6 or 5 years of vacuum. In order to actually improve the business environment and the greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, it will be necessary to cut into several areas. First of all, this is the area of justice. According to the entrepreneurs themselves, the functioning of the rule of law is the first condition for the functioning of the economy, in particular for the arrival of new investors. The measures taken by the current government in this area are essentially insufficient for concrete movements, for the protection of investments, for actual and not only statistical performance of the reduction of judicial proceedings, in particular economic disputes and insolvency proceedings. In fact, we still have too many procedures that last years and years before they come to a conclusion and data on the longevity of the proceedings, and in particular on the quality and fairness of the trial in our country, go beyond the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Until we record in the field of justice the results that will be comparable to the state of the rule of law, in the case of Austria and Germany, we are confident that foreign investors will simply not come to us. Another important measure is the removal of administrative barriers. Entrepreneurs continue to report waiting for appropriate permits and consents, not for a few months, but for several years. Here we focus on the issue of building permits and environmental and water consensus. Nor in this area is the budget document accompanied by an appropriate amendment to the legislation that would eliminate these anomalies. The third measure, however, is the scope of the tax burden on the economy. Here, however, the government has already taken and announced some measures that are not encouraging for the economy. First of all, the introduction of tax rebates, which is an additional financial and administrative burden for the economy, continues to raise value added tax rates, which are being converted from temporary to a permanent measure. Here I would just like to mention that value added tax is a distinctly a social tax. This government composition would expect social measures, not a social measures. We are also concerned about the projected reduction in tax reliefs for research and development and the increase in corporate income tax rates. The measures therefore go in the opposite direction from what the economy needs for a breakthrough. If the Slovenian economy is not able to make a development and technological breakthrough, we are at risk of having too much business in the long term, which will throw us into the economic province, and our people can only dream of prosperity. On the expenditure side of the draft budget, we miss systemic measures in the field of public and state administration. The government reached an agreement with the unions on salaries and other costs of work of public servants in 2016, which in the budget means additional expenditure for these purposes. On the other hand, the Government should take the necessary measures to reduce public sector expenditure. There is a need for rationalisation in the field of public and state administration. The International State Fund imposes on us and notes that they are not a problem of pay in the public sector, but that the problem is waste. So we're poorly organized. We have a number of para-state institutions, funds, institutions, agencies that do not at all justify their existence, but represent a huge public financial burden. We also have an irrational network of different public bodies and institutions that should be optimised. Neither does the Government predict concrete measures in this direction. We agree with Minister Dr. Marble, who says we have been studying in Slovenia for too long. We're recorders here. What is the government preparing in this area to reduce this anomaly for a long time or to shorten the study time? This is one of the key issues in our education system. The share of the expenditure that falls on the interest on borrowing of loans from domestic and foreign banks is increasing. In 2016, interest payments will amount to EUR 1.2 billion. The share of budgetary expenditure for the payment of domestic and foreign interest is steadily increasing. The privatisation procedures, from which some funds could be obtained to repay the public debt and thereby reduce the share of the interest payment expenditure, have actually stopped, in spite of the decision of the National Assembly. The planned privatisation inflows are minimal and should, in our view, be significantly higher. The acceleration of privatisation procedures would certainly contribute to higher budgetary inflows, not only for purchases, but also for better corporate governance. Only critical to the draft budget is the reduction of investment funds, even for half. We are convinced that this is not the right way and that we should do more to attract fresh money or new investments in Slovenia. From here to the truly open Slovenian economy or environment, which enables this openness, is obviously very far away. We see the opportunity for Slovenia mainly in the preparation of good projects that could be financed through cohesion funds. These are the funds that are practically one of the only sources of grants. Given that we have been in the new financial perspective for two years now, we would also expect to draw new funds more intensively in New Slovenia. In both budgets, there is a substantial lack of resources for research and development in order to provide the necessary economic support in terms of the technological breakthrough I have already talked about. During our consideration of the budgets in Nova Slovenije, we specifically pointed out the problem of reducing funds for municipalities. Who, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, is funding the public sector with which the Government has negotiated? It is financed by municipalities, us, citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens. And apparently, the municipalities are getting more and more and more and more and more prices are getting higher and less from the state budget. Thus, the European Charter of Local Self-Government is being violated. We are not satisfied with what is happening in the field of averages, financial balances and investments. The municipalities are those who actually make between 70 and 80 % of all public investments. The resources, as far as the Government devotes additional resources to the municipalities in the form of favourable reimbursements in the supplementary draft budget, EUR 11 million do not significantly change the situation. In our opinion, the municipalities are the biggest budget loser for the next two years. Nor has the government reached an agreement, at least not yet, at least it is not known to me, with representative associations of municipalities regarding the average for the next two years, and we are convinced that it has made little effort in this direction. Measures have been announced to relieve the municipalities and also to redistribute the statutory tasks between the congregation and the State. However, it did not present concrete solutions that would have had a significant financial impact on the municipalities. We have pointed out all these shortcomings in the budget documents in Novi Slovenija during their treatment on the working bodies. Following the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy's parent working body, the Government was committed to taking the comments and opinions made in the debate into account to the greatest extent in the preparation of the supplementary draft budget. When supplementing the draft budget of such a decision of the national working body of the National Assembly, the Government did not take into account the opinions, comments and amendments tabled by the opposition parties alone, as it did not in any way include them in the supplementary draft budget. The supplementary draft budgets for 2016 and 2017 are practically the same as the basic proposals for both budgets. Practically the only significant change is the planned additional funding to address the migration crisis, which is expected to amount to 123 million courts in 2016. For these purposes, the country's debt of EUR 50 million is planned. We are not opposed to this, but while 37 million euros are to be obtained from the European Union budget and 22 million is a problem for the municipalities. It is true that the migrant crisis is an event that cannot be planned in advance and cannot be avoided by the costs involved, but I must point out in solving this issue that the funds and resources for resolving this area have been found, while, as has already been said, the lack of funds for an acceptable average level and for the necessary financial settlement are not found. We're sorry! The reason for this is therefore simply a lack of political will. We also expected the end of the political will from the coalition to consider and accept amendments to the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. All amendments to New Slovenia were tabled in business correctly, so they were not contrary to the Fiscal Rule Act either, but were easily overtaken by the coalition without any attention. It is not a problem, however, that the coalition simply reports that it accepts absolute responsibility by doing so. Colleagues and colleagues, before the parliamentary holidays we adopted the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, and as a result the Government adopted a strategy on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly adopted a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia taking into account the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia, which is in its sovereignty, the security of citizens and citizens, the protection and enforcement of constitutional values and national culture and so on. The National Assembly also adopted a declaration taking into account that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have decided, with a large majority, to become members of the European Union, which for the Republic of Slovenia represents a fundamental value and political framework for the provision of prosperity and fundamental rights, as well as membership in NATO, which constitutes a fundamental framework for ensuring national security. However, it is noted that there is not enough funding to implement such external policies. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs asked how satisfied he was with the budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he replied that he was not satisfied with the fact that he had achieved harmonisation of pensions in the coalition. We allow pensioners better coordination than has been achieved by President Desus and also by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is not a matter of coordination; it is only an extraordinary harmonisation that weighs 40 million euros, which means that each pensioner will on average receive 65 euros per year more and 5.4 euros per month more. We, I emphasize and repeat, should afford the pensioners more because they deserve it. But how do you do that? This is done by improving the environment for the economy. The economy is the one that will be able to pay more money in the pension register if we have more jobs. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For all the above reasons and many others, which the Members of New Slovenia will present below this debate, Members and Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will not be supported by the 2016 and 2017 draft budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. We have concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and a joint introductory presentation to the two supplementary draft budgets for 2016 and 2017. We are moving on to a debate on each supplementary draft budget separately. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the 2016 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will have a discussion on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and of the amendments tabled in three parts: a general part, a specific part and a development programme plan. We are moving on to the general part of the supplementary budget. Before I give you the opportunity to apply, I would just like to warn you when I initiate the application to the debate, a ten-second time line runs on a large screen. You can sign up for the debate by pressing the key on the microphone. Upon registration, the microphone key and the indicator on the microphone shall be coloured green. By pressing the same key again, you can cancel the discussion and turn it off. I'm asking you to apply for a debate. I give the first word to Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Allow me to respond to some of the comments made in this recital in the presentation of the opinions. Let me just start with the congregations first. Today was the last, ninth round of coordination with the municipalities, with a truly broad-based offer by the Government for an average of €525, and also with very good conditions for reimbursements under investment transfers. I would like to answer that the government has not shown enough will to reach an agreement. We are practically negotiating nine circles, this was just this year, we have been practically negotiating since November last year, and we have been addressing very systematic problems of the municipalities in terms of reducing their costs. We agreed on 26 measures to be taken by Parliament to reduce the costs to municipalities, thereby allowing the average to operate normally and to ensure the obligations of municipalities. In recent times, another expert commission has been set up by the municipalities and by the Ministry, a government that has identified 8 more measures, plus an additional measure agreed upon to respond to the issue of NUSZ, which is a compensation for the use of building land, due to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which makes it impossible for municipalities to amend the decree. Of the 26 measures, if we leave further agreements on the side, 22 are implemented or will be implemented by the end of this year. The overall impact of all these measures is to reduce the costs of municipalities by about €20 million. On the other hand, we are aware that public sector wage agreements have increased the costs of municipalities by about 13 million and several more. All these measures, which reduce the costs of municipalities, are more than neutralising these cost increases they have. In 2015, we have an agreement this year, namely an agreement to have an average of €525 in the first part of the year and 514 in the second half if all the measures were implemented. Since only part of the measures have been implemented, we have increased to EUR 519 on average, EUR 522 on average, and this is more than a replacement for the failure because certain measures have not yet been implemented. Despite the agreement, we were sued by the associations of the municipalities, both of which signed, namely SOS and ZOS and also ZMOS, the first two before the Administrative Court and the third before the Constitutional Court. Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has already made it very clear in 2011 that, in addition to the real needs, it is necessary to take into account the macroeconomic situation and the fiscal situation in the country in determining the average, despite being laid down in the law. The circles that we made with the congregations themselves and then all the measures and circles that we carried out in the government or Parliament were extremely large. It is likely that no government has ever dealt with the issue of the costs of the congregations. The logic was that we cannot afford to increase costs in this public financial situation, but we can afford to rationalise, reduce costs and maintain the income of municipalities at a level such as this. In doing so, I would like to remind you in particular that since 2008, according to the crisis, the revenue of the municipalities has increased by 17.6% by the end of 2015, with the gross domestic product growth of 1.6% during this period and the country's consumption has increased by 4.8%. It is said that the municipalities had significantly higher revenues than the rest of the public sector. Many times it is said that the congregations say, yes, the revenues were higher. However, on the other hand, we also had higher costs due to the increasingly new tasks we have been given. I would like to warn you, always new tasks get the rest of the public sector, all the time. Also because of European directives and regulations in the field of, say, ecology and so on. If we look at how much costs have been raised, they are 14.4% in the rest of the public sector and 9.8% in the municipalities. Nor does this claim simply hold. And when we looked at what was happening at the average, what was happening with the money available to the municipalities, what was said in the accounts of the municipalities was that last year the average situation in the accounts of the municipalities was EUR 163 million, this year, in the first ten months of 192 million euros and at the end of October 224 million euros. There's no serious argument here. Nevertheless, we went gradually and drew up an agreement that the government would make and continue to address the questions raised by the congregations, and that agreement was still rejected. I am very sorry, I must say that we have made every possible effort on our part, which was possible in the given situation, even these repayments would be interest-free, would be a refund of 7 to 10 years, and this process of granting these loans would be greatly simplified. So much for the congregations and the effort and logic of the congregation’s requests for additional funds. With regard to some other claims. Investments. The usual claim is that in this budget investments are significantly lower than in 2015. Yes, significantly lower, if it is not taken into account that in 2015 the largest in the history of a percentage of GDP is because we are ripping off these last EU funds that we have not cut before, you are taking on what is far highest and looking at how much today is in this budget for 2016. But there's so much in the budget for 2012 and for a whole series of years when I was also a minister. The situation is lower because it's a new perspective. We have tried to neutralize this maximum with higher funds from the integral by 9%, although the total budget expenditure for 2016 is increasing by 1.5%, it is said that we have done so in the investment area as far as possible. Changes in the business environment are often seen as problematic or as nothing has been done and so on. I'd like to re-emphasize. We have a national reform programme, we have a government action plan and we follow the lines of this action plan and we implement them. For example, in the area of taxes we have a change in the tax procedure that is in Parliament, we have a change in VAT, where the release of money for businesses will amount to €32 million in 2016. So there's a simplification here. We have a change in excise law in public treatment, which will also bring certain administrative burdens. Then we have tax restructuring. The question was whether we even had a tax restructuring that we had done nothing. At the moment, as you can see in the public debate, it is said in this area that work is being done, but of course the final result is this neutral effect, because restructuring means that you take and give somewhere, it is said that this does not affect the budget as well. With regard to some claims that taxes were increasing. I would just say that if we look at 2015, 2016, 2017 and the tax revenues of the budgets, in 2015, 18,12% in GDP, in 2016 17,96% and in 2017 17,90% were foreseen. This is said to have a downward trend in tax revenues in GDP. With regard to excise duties, which are often exposed to what has happened in the last year, this is from 31 October last year until 31 October this year, we have reduced excise duties from 0.55 euros to 0.50 euros per litre for diesel from 0.45 to 0.42. The only reason we have a slight increase in fuel oil is because of ecological reasons. The OECD Recommendation is that this is neutralised at low prices by higher excise duties. It was also clear that we have not shown all the cash registers and the impact of all the cash registers on the structural deficit and also on respect for the Stability and Growth Pact in this respect. I hope I've shown this in my opening remarks. However, I would like to stress once again that the stability programme we sent to the European Union in spring has been thoroughly processed and is now taking this into account in the budget. About the migration issue. In fact, there are some dilemmas here, and in my opinion everyone would have them, and they also have them in all countries, how they can be accurately predicted in this area for the next year, what a cost it will actually be. I'd like to say here, we predicted 123 million. After extensive consultation with all ministries and also on the basis of foreign experience, we came to 123 million. The key thing for us right now is how much of this we will cover with European funds. I must say that on Friday to twelve o'clock at night an agreement was reached in the European Union regarding the European budget, where there were some more than 2 billion, I think 2.3 billion designed for this area, which is very flexible. It is therefore very good and it will also be possible to place costs specific to transfer countries such as Slovenia, such as transport costs and the like among the costs eligible for European funds. In this area, we are trying our best to make sure that at least 73 million, if not more, actually cover these costs from European funds. Maybe it was a misunderstanding when I talked about what the C-billion loan increase would be and how much credit we would repay. I would like to reiterate once again that it will be clear that in 2016 we will pay 3.8 billion and hire 2.6 billion new loans; it is said that the total debt will be reduced. In 2017, we anticipate 2.9 billion repayments and 4.1 billion new loans. Here, however, this commitment may be slightly increased to a certain extent. Perhaps only an answer regarding what Mr Moon has stated. He says it would be very easy to raise taxes and thus finance social expenditure. I must say that we have a social agreement for 2015 and 2016, where no tax rise is foreseen, it is only possible to restructure taxes. It is said that this social agreement simply cannot be bypassed because we have signed it and we will stick to it. Whether it would be possible to finance a number of individual matters, from investments, social expenditure and so on. This budget takes into account all the options, but we must be able to see that we have at our disposal 15 per cent of the gross domestic product for domestic consumption, as was the case in 2008, in these frameworks, these two budgets are moving; in the case of higher economic growth, this will decrease, as well as in the case of lower surpluses of the current part of the balance of payments, but for once the situation is the same, and these two budgets are also proposed in these frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. To start this today's budgetary treatment both with regard to the 2016 and 2017 supplementary draft budget. As has been said, we have a general part first in the debate, and I will also first define myself in general or say something about the two supplementary drafts of the budget. The debate on both proposals in the parliamentary process so far has shown exactly how many challenges there are for the next two years and also the risks. Minister Marble has mentioned five key points in the debates so far. This is a required reduction of the deficit, reduction of European funds, implementation of the social agreement, excessive expectations and promotion of economic growth and employment; today he mentioned the sixth, that is, managing the costs of migration flows. On the other hand, we also have important risks, at which this budget also forms. If I mention only some or some key points, they are related both to the international environment and to the domestic environment. It is a risk of slowing down growth, increasing the flow of refugees to improve the flow of money from the banking sector to the business sector and thus an important positive or negative impact on investment, if I really only point out these few key ones. It may not be necessary, however, to point out in the beginning some important starting points and facts, which have already been exposed in one way or another to budgetary treatment on parliamentary working bodies. It is true that macroeconomic forecasts are favourable or optimistic and show that the economic situation in Slovenia is improving, but it is important that we are aware that the available GDP for domestic consumption in 2015 is still around 15% lower than in 2008, according to the last year before the crisis in our country. Which means that all the rights that we have already set ourselves through budget users in the past years or since we have already had them cannot be planned and not realized at the pre-crisis level, as the available resources are still much smaller and it will take a few years for such or even greater growth to reach the available GDP for domestic consumption before the crisis is due before 2008. While GDP is projected to grow by about 2.3% next year, the expenditure seen from documents is growing at a lower rate of 1.5%, the difference between this GDP growth and thus budgetary revenue, and on the other hand expenditure is the difference that will reduce our deficit and will also bring us a reduction in structural deficit. This will be known in the cash flow, so that the deficit from this year will fall to more than €840 million over the next year. We cannot increase expenditure as much as we would if we did not have this task to bring the structural deficit to nothing. It is said that we still have to limit public spending here. During this period, interest expenditure also increased, which still distorts other public financial expenditure. If all of the measures taken in recent years to limit spending were to be released, this objective or this first challenge, as the Minister of Finance has also been talking about, would not be achieved in any way. I therefore assess that, in preparing both budgetary documents, the Government has followed first this objective of reducing the deficit, which is being done so as not to have a negative impact on the recovery of the economy by over-restricting public spending. More than once, it has been said by the minister and by other government representatives that this reduction will be particularly thoughtful and gradual. Taking into account certain fixed expenditure related to certain budgetary users, a budgetary expenditure framework has been set up which puts the Government's priorities at the forefront for the next two years. They were also mentioned. These are areas of security and property, health, justice, infrastructure and education. Also from the figures provided for in these budget documents of these budget users, which we have on the table today, these figures will allow me to list some of them, including the so-called health reforms, the performance of public health tasks, the implementation of the eHealth project, the reduction of waiting periods, the improvement of the working conditions of some ministries where more resources are planned – the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, these figures will also enable the implementation of several works in the maintenance of state roads and so on. In 2016, certain restrictions on categories of social protection rights that have been in force due to the crisis in recent years are also gradually being eased, with an increase in the basic amount of minimum income, which will affect higher amounts of monetary social assistance. We also have on the table proposals for laws, such as amendments to the law on social security benefits, the enforcement of rights from public funds, the law on parental protection and family benefits, which follow what I have said. Regarding salaries in the public sector, it has already been said today that an agreement has been concluded with trade union partners, which, while increasing wages by 28 million, but Minister Marble has said that this does not require amending the budget and that budgetary users, within their spending rights, will provide these funds within the redistribution of items within individual budgetary users. On the other hand, we have congregations where we have heard today that no agreement has been reached on the average. I am saddened by the fact that I have worked in the congregation before, and I know that in most cases the congregations are doing well, and they are pursuing the goals of meeting those legal frameworks that they must provide. Thus, they provide their citizens with all those public services that are not subject to market implementation. However, I am optimistic here that the ministries will continue to implement a project to reduce the costs of municipalities through legislative burdens. Above all, here I also appeal to this, as we have also seen in the debate in the Committee on Finance, that the issue of community funding is quite unregulated, that there are many problems, so even in this next round, when laws related to the changes and implementation of the Fiscal Rule Act are being opened, that they will also be identified, dealt with and also resolved in this area of community funding. Maybe there's something else about investment. Today, it has been said how drasticly investment funds are being cut, and so is the response. Let me just put it here, even though EU funds are indeed falling heavily, the Government has partly compensated for these funds by integral means. Integral investment funds are thus increasing by a little more than 8 % in 2016. Even in 2017, according to 2016, investments from the integral part of the budgets are further increased by a negative 12%. On the income side, the objective of this government should and should remain to increase the efficiency of collecting public taxes, maintaining tax rates, reducing administrative barriers to compliance with tax obligations. Here we also have in the procedure and in the adoption of the amendment of the tax procedure law, the amendment of the VAT law, the amendment of the law on compliance with customs rules, a new excise law is being prepared. In view of the above, I estimate that the budget is prepared on the appropriate financial basis, which will also allow for the fulfilment of the substantive and programme commitments of this coalition within these frameworks. I expect that in the next year, we will be faced with substantive changes in the individual departments, which will also confirm what I have said. My assessment is that much has been done here in the area of stabilisation of public finances in the past year and in 2014 and that the remaining ministries and not only the finance ministry must now be at the forefront of their substantive priorities. Here at this point, which has already been mentioned today, in particular the drawing up of financial resources from the new financial perspective 2014-2020, so that all legal frameworks can be put in place as soon as possible in order to allow municipalities to apply for tenders, it is said that tenders based on the financial perspective have been prepared as soon as possible, since only then does the tender give the opportunity for an individual project to obtain a decision and a co-financing contract and only on this basis will it be possible to draw, as foreseen in the budget, EUR 510 million for 2016 and for 2017 I think that EUR 600 million. That seems a key task to me. Since we are at the end of 2016 and in the middle of a new financial perspective, as far as I know, some calls other than these eleven projects do not yet have co-financing contracts. As much as possible for the introduction of the evaluation of the budgetary documents for 2016 and 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the word to prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! In view of all these activities carried out by the Government and this budget for 2016 and 2017, I could say and repeat the words of my colleague, who said to the Committee on Finance that we can conclude that the objective of this coalition is only this and only to survive this mandate. The budget, in my opinion, is without clear objectives and some long-term stable strategy. Of course, I understand that if there is no money, no investment, there is little development, but that there is no strategy that clearly sets no goals, no vision, and I really don't understand that. I don't understand that, either, or that the government, by giving in to negotiations with the union, this is considered a major success. In my opinion, success would be that, on the other hand, the income side would somehow provide these funds adequately or overwind all those services and agencies that we know we can work without them or that they are their own purpose. But the Ministry of Public Administration doesn't do that, even though the minister has been promising it for a long time. While I am with the Minister of Public Administration, who has had such a successful conversation with the so-called Struckle Unions, he does not respond at all to the request of the police to negotiate. We must not forget that November 18th is near or outside the door. Not only the Minister, but also the Minister of the Interior, should present himself and defend the interests and demands of the police, as she is best aware of the conditions under which these officers work. In view of what I have already said about police officers predicting a strike for November 18th, I hope that the government has managed to form this negotiating group by now. I also hope that the police will be successful in these negotiations. If we look at this plan for the acquisition of movable property, it is planned to purchase 125 cars in the 2016 budget at the Ministry of the Interior for the needs of police officers. I think that's pretty good. However, if we look at this plan at the same time, we see that 6 special vehicles, 42 passenger vehicles, for 2017 41 vehicles and 7 special vehicles are planned on the website of the Ministry of Finance for 2016, not to mention that 45 passenger vehicles were purchased at the Ministry of Finance in 2015. Given that the car park at the Ministry of Finance will increase so much, I hope that more taxes will be collected for this or for this reason. Given how much we recover or how much taxes are collected, we are far behind the European average in Slovenia. At the beginning of this year, the government also adopted a package of austerity measures in the field of local self-government. These measures were ineffective, as the Minister himself acknowledged. As a result, the government reduced the average of 2014 from EUR 536 in 2015 to EUR 525 and then EUR 519. Of course, that's not enough. The average for 2016, as we are hearing today, is expected to be known for what, 525 or 519 will be in the coming days. I hope and I want it to be 536. We must not forget here that, under the Community Financing Act, this average should be EUR 652. I do not understand that you have allocated 24 million less to the municipalities for financial compensation for 2016 and nothing for 2017. I must say, this is a very brave move. I would like to ask you, my fellow coalition members, how will you defend this budget in your local environment if you confirm it? Perhaps someone will also ask you after this opinion. If we walk in Slovenia, we can see that in the area of local communities, local self-government has done a lot, it has invested a lot in infrastructure. Local communities also provide a friendly environment for the citizen. I hope that the municipalities will turn three times every euro they receive and have it at their disposal before they invest in any investment or program. I must say that I do not understand the logic of the country, which, on the one hand, takes over and takes over the congregations and, on the other hand, imposes on them new and new tasks. That's not enough. The municipalities will also be affected by measures relating to co-financing of investments. We can't forget that. But always so full of mouths are us, I could say, all together, that we need to create some kind of favourable business environment. Here I do not know if under this favourable business environment we explain that it is that we are always adopting new and new meaningless laws, incomprehensible legislation, which we often call a little more beautiful and more complicated to hear, administrative obstacles. We change taxes all the time. If we change them down, okay, but we just extend their validity or even introduce new ones. In this way, dear colleagues, we will by no means relieve the economy. It would be very interesting to analyse how much additional burdens or burdens there are for 2015. I think this kind of analysis would be really interesting. Our citizens, in the Savina Valley, would say that they are greedy, more and more burdensome, inventing so-called tax registers, and I am really wondering how much longer these dear citizens here will be watching or tolerate our actions in this House. Dear colleagues and the government, in this way we will by no means attract foreign investors. On the one hand, if we kept all our young, educated ones, that would be very good. I remember talking a few days ago to some gentleman who came on vacation from Australia, and he said, "Well, what kind of country are you, look, we only accept healthy and educated people, but they go to you educated and healthy from your country." I must say, I have yet to agree with his statement. If I stop here in the health field. I think if we just look at health or the Ministry of Health, we could say that all he needs is the Ministry of Medicine. Look, all these irregularities at the UKC, heart surgery corruption, oncology institute, all these things about the appointment of a new V.D. Director – if it doesn't need a doctor! It's the other way around. The Minister does not adhere at all to the conclusions or recommendations adopted by the National Assembly or the Health Committee. At this National Assembly, it was recommended that the Ministry be informed by the Health Committee before publication in the Official Journal of the Emergency Medical Regulation. But the minister somehow bypassed these recommendations, did not look back on them, and published the Emergency Medical Regulations. I would call this a very sick attitude of the Minister or the Ministry towards us Members. If you tolerate this, not in the opposition. And that's not all. See, at the presentation of the 2016 and 2017 budget we had a meeting of the Health Committee on a nice sunny Friday afternoon. Just before this committee's meeting, the Minister and the chairman of the committee agreed to explain the budget for both years very quickly, as she has already told the coalition or explained the budget for 2016 and 2017, but the opposition will somehow. I think that kind of attitude towards the opposition, or I have to say that we're a little used to it, but I think it's very inappropriate. However, if I say again, on the other hand, I understand again, the Ministry of Health has already divided citizens into first-class and second-class nationals by this Emergency Medical Regulation. Here I have in mind this response time that was originally laid down in this Regulation. If I stay with the Health Committee. With regard to the available funds for 2016 and 2017, the Minister told the Committee that it had agreed and coordinated with the Ministers and had acquired a little less than 27 million resources not included in the proposed budget and would be included below. Not to say so, I will read from the magnetogram: "Let me say, however, that in the last days we have managed to reach agreement and coordinate with the ministers in question and to obtain a little less than €27 million in funding for preventive projects at the primary level. Then we also managed to obtain a little less than 2 million for the pilot project to set up single entry points for the integrated early treatment of children with special needs based on the already existing network of development ambulances. Then we also managed to get €1.5 million to raise health literacy, and to prevent the damage and consequences of illicit drugs, $3 million, a little to describe a healthy lifestyle for Roma, and a harmful drink of alcohol 5 million. As I mentioned, already €27 million has been agreed for these programmes which are not in the proposed budget and will be included below." Now I am very interested in where is now in this complementary proposal of this 27 million. I don't see them if anyone can show them to me. Here, too, I would like to know where the resources in this budget are in the area of health care for long-term care and palliative care. The coalition itself has indicated in the coalition contract that it is necessary to accelerate the introduction of care and palliative care. I don't see any of this in this budget. And as much as the Minister, I must say, he is reserving to the coalition contract that it must be respected. The European Commission's recommendation on palliative care and long-term care for the National Reform Programme itself, which we received in May this year, also states: "There has been no progress in the reform of the long-term care system. At the end of 2013, the Government adopted a plan to reform long-term care, but the adoption of legislation to implement the reform was postponed until the end of 2015, as decisions on health insurance reform, including the issue of funding sources for the entire healthcare system and the long-term care system, must be taken first." This recommendation suggests that a reform of health insurance should be carried out. But we haven't seen this health insurance reform yet.I just hope that the ministry doesn't think it's reform now that it's changing the Health Act, and it's only from one piece, it's said from a fraction of the concessions. If this is for the Minister or the Ministry of Reform, it's quite sad. With regard to this reform health system, I cannot help but say that the Minister at the budget meeting of the Health Committee said that they are simultaneously preparing system laws at the Ministry. She probably meant this change in terms of health concessions. So, I'm not going to repeat what has already been adopted and prepared. I believe that everyone here in this room is aware that the National Assembly on Health has not done much, except with affairs, corruption and so on, but not with legislation. All we discussed in this National Assembly in the area of health care was the Emergency Health Care Regulation, the Amendments to the Databases Act and the Amendments to the Medicinal Products Act. And this is supposed to be a reform of the health system. Let me finish this slowly. Here I would also like to point out that the Council of State does not support this budget either. Finally, I would like to say that reforms are needed, real reforms are needed, not just some extension of measures and an increase in taxes. And a clear goal is needed and the way to achieve this goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Susanna Pretty Chimenka ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u69	Dear fellows, good day, not a pleasant day, but after all! The budget for 2016 and 2017 are the basic and key documents to be adopted by this House. And the budget is also a key document where our legislative branch of government has the greatest potential and opportunity to influence and guide the country towards. The budget is also that document that shows what policies the government coalition will take and which way it will lead the country. I am convinced that those who now and even in the future are sitting in this hall, we have about the same goal. It's creating a better life for our citizens, better conditions for a better life. offer them good and quality services and provide them with some appropriate security. Surely, though, there are enormous differences in the way these things work. Today we have had a chance to see how Marxists on the left view this thing and how we Christian Democrats view how to make life better. If you have listened closely to the Marxists, then you can see that their principle is to impale people, squeeze them and squeeze them out of them, as far as possible. But it is important to tell Mr Mesec and his colleagues that these options are not boundless, that you cannot squeeze people and citizens with taxes indefinitely. There's a limit somewhere. And we can't just think about how we're going to fill the state budget only with new taxes, but we need to think about how we're going to create conditions for creating new values or for as many people as possible to have a job. I think that this is already the winged one that I always repeat, but it must be repeated again and again, that it will come to everyone in small brains, that the greatest value of the country is an employed person, because every employed person is twice the benefit of the country. It pays into state treasury, from which all services are financed and at the same time the state does not pay for it from the budget of various social transfers. And if anything, then in this house we have to think first of all about what we're going to do to get more people to work from tomorrow. If we look at the exact budget for 2016, then we can see that it is a repetition of old and already seen concepts. If we want to, and I believe that it is the desire of the coalition to make a substantial change, then we must also take substantial different measures. Do not do the same things and expect different results. The data also show that even in 2016 we will still not achieve the standard we had in 2008. So we can talk completely about the lost decade. But the government coalition and government are still acting like nothing has happened, that our systems do not need to be adapted and changed so that they work better. In these budgets, which I have said are the key documents of each government, key government initiatives should be seen, or from this budget should be clearly based on what reforms this government will make. And we can only find that some serious reforms are not foreseen in 2016 or later. However, I am convinced that at least the following reforms are needed: tax reform, labour market reform, pension reform, health reform and public sector reform. If I go from behind. We are always talking about how to reform the public sector, make it more efficient and even more equitable. Does anything move on this point? Not much. The government continues to agree to the survival and well-known concepts of our trade unionists and we still have three types of employees in the public sector who work, burn, and have nothing to report, do very well, others go to work and others do harm. And with those who do harm to this country, virtually no one deals with it. I recall that during the time of our government we tried to accept some of the legal bases so that ineffective or bad public servants could be fired and be a terrible cow. But even if 40 or 50 thousand people come to the streets, for the sake of this country, the public sector will have to be reformed for a better future. If we do not do so, then those who work from morning to late evening hours will not be motivated by their work, for they most likely find it foolish to work for the same wage, while some others do many other things, things that do not need to be done and do not fall within the scope of their work. We're really all expecting a move to take place here together. And if anything, then this government coalition, at least in reforming the public sector, can seriously count on the opposition not to jump into its back. If the role were reversed, I am not entirely sure that socialists, Marxists and others in the opposition would not jump into the government's back when it comes to the public sector. And at least as far as the public sector is concerned, your government now has a great opportunity to move something forward. Retired reform. The last one we made was clearly said to be sustainable by 2020. It's not far from there anymore. I fear that until the next elections, if they are regular, somewhere in 2018, we will be moved as if nothing is necessary. Maybe the president of the party who thinks he's a pensioner will even tell us why we're scaring people. I'm going to say to him, "Karl, why have pensions fallen by more than 15% in time since you've been in government? Why? Because it's obviously a system that doesn't work. And if we want the standard to rise for our pensioners too, so that pensioners can survive with pensions, then people need to be made clear that pension reform is also needed. I know it's embarrassing, and it's probably like all of you Members walking around the field and people are asking you, "Where's my money that I've been paying for 40 years, where did my money go?" And these people need to be honestly told that we have a system, that their money was nowhere to be imposed, that when they go to retirement, they would get paid, but that their money paid for their pension went to the same month for their pensions. This is why the number of pensioners and the number of those we work to pay our pension contributions are crucial. That's the key. And if we have a fact that demographics are such that there are more and more older and fewer employees, we don't have to be a special mathematician to figure out whether pensions are going to fall, or whether we're going to have to work longer, my generation. And Karl Erjavec and his client are representatives of the fact that pensions fall. I don't. I'm in favour of my generation working longer, because I'm sure the current pensioners with 300, 400 euros are hard to survive. I know these things are unpleasant, but I think we need to talk about numbers, demographics and pension issues in real terms. Although I may no longer be in this chair after the next election, what other person will get a percentage more, but I rather speak openly and openly than be a false prophet. Health reform. There's talk about her all the time, and it's necessary. It is also necessary for the sake of our budget. We are another of the few countries that has maintained socialist concepts. We are also one of the few countries that does not allow there to be more competition in the field of health insurance, which does not allow, as in cars, to be able to choose an insurance company on its own, but is prescribed by the State. Critics of these proposals after the urgency of health reform will immediately jump into the air and say, "We are for public health, we are not giving public health." I don't give it either. But such public health care as we have today is not good because it is sad that those who know who come first and others later. And this public health service is in big trouble every year. It is therefore again from the policy and from the government that it is responsible to think about how to solve this problem. Me and Nova Slovenija advocate public health, but we advocate a different way of financing this public health care. And then another criticism, which is here all the time, that private insurance companies will be making profits, while now we have a public institution that does good. The problem with this large public institution is that the bag is large and there is a lot for a lot of people in this bag, so I'm talking about lobbying so that certain ones can reach such a high price that they might not otherwise have. And where's the advantage? More competition in health reform. Surely every health insurance company would seek the best possible health care for its insured because it is in its interest. Because if it wasn't, that man would have gone back to the doctor in two, three months. And this same insurance company should pay again, and that would be the rest. And since it is in her interest to make profits, she would provide better health services for the citizens. And now I come to a crucial, tax reform, which is also one of the foundations of any budget. Unfortunately, I must find out, although at least the first signs gave different signals, different incentives for this government to take tax reform seriously. Unfortunately, when the budget and the Ministry of Finance forecasts show up, this is not going to happen. I know that the Ministry of Finance must take care of a sustainable budget, that it must ensure that we act in accordance with what we have adopted in this House, this is a fiscal rule, but, despite all that, if we do not have some more courage in this tax reform, then even some major changes are not expected. Since small changes, people have unfortunately found it difficult to live and not change anything essential in their lives, so we need to be a little more bold and go into more determined tax reforms. Not to say that I am speaking my mind, at least in New Slovenia we have proposed a package of various concrete measures. I'm not saying that this is the only right and only salvation. Far from it. I say, however, that these things should be discussed openly and openly in this House. In this House, we spend many times on non-essential things that are irrelevant to the lives of citizens, while there are key debates such as today's budgetary, by the way, past us. At least discussions on how to unload work and how to change the income scale should be one of the main discussions of this national assembly. I'm afraid they're not. Where to Strengthen Economic Growth? The scientific or economic theory is simple: export, private consumption, public consumption and private investment. Let everyone in this House ask themselves what has been done recently to support exporters who are holding the country up today. What concrete action has been taken? I'd be very happy if any of you could list at least three, I don't know them. Private consumption. What have we done in this House to make more people have and, as a result, spend more? Unfortunately, measures that bring an additional €5 to people's wallets cannot contribute to greater consumption. Private investment. We say that the country has no money, that investments can be reduced, that we cannot go into large infrastructure investments. What, though, do we do to make the country more interesting to those who have the money to bring it to Slovenia? You will most likely remember a meeting that we had about various scales and indicators, it seemed pointless and irrelevant to all, but I think it is important that we also discuss what to do, that those who have money around the world, some of them will certainly bring this money to Slovenia and here with their money do something and also enable our citizens to work and allow the country to collect taxes. Unfortunately, there are no very positive stories here. Now we're passing or it's already been the first year of this government coalition. I think it should have been a long time ago through those initial birth spasms when the human resources problems were set and the ministers were changing, but it wasn't the right team, and the new SMC members were still playing. I understand all this, but now the key two years are coming – 2016 and 2017. In the last year, if you endure it, 2018 will certainly not have any major and serious shocks before the elections. And I would expect that, in 2016 and 2017, we would be making key and essential reforms. I hope that despite today's debate and despite this budget, which does not show that you have not yet given up. There's a lot to save and change with the rebalancing. Finally, if I comment on three more things that were repeatedly exposed. One is the management of our debt, the other is the migrant crisis and the third financing of municipalities. Regarding the management of our public debt things are not yet pink, although it may seem, the feeling that now we have economic growth, now we are on the safe side, must also be made clear that in 2016 we will add a bad billion to the 30 billion of our debt. So we're not on the safe side yet. I don't want to scare you because I know that if these things are scary, then it can contribute to less private consumption and then we're in a vicious circle. My purpose is not to frighten. However, I would like to point out that in such matters it is necessary to be careful when certain people in the public sector are promised certain concessions and additional consumption. We also give a tenth interest in the 2016 budget. In the old days, the Middle Ages and then a little later, there was a tithe, and you must have read something about rebellions and ways. And today we're throwing that tithe out the window. Socialists and Marxists who talk about how to provide good public services, good public infrastructure, sometimes swim in this vicious circle. At the same time, they want consumption across their borders, which increases our indebtedness and thus service debt more than we will be in debt, we will pay more for interest and it will be less, if you want, for the public sector, for public health and for all other public infrastructure facilities. Such a very interesting circle here is made that the more we spend and live across our borders, the less we are left to encourage other matters because interest is beating us. You can imagine what we could do with this billion we're paying for interest today. Schools, roads, lots of things. We used to talk about these things more and more, but now they're somewhere on the edge. But we can't forget them. The migrant crisis will cost us 123 million. In his previous speech, the Minister said that everything still depended on how much real Slovenia would give for this crisis, on how much we would get from Europe. Now I'm gonna say something blasphemous. The Minister also said that transport and transport costs are one of the excessive costs of this migrant crisis. What would be so severe and inhuman if these transportation costs were also charged to the people we are transporting from the southern borders to the northern border? If you look down the chain, along the Balkan route, you can see that Greece, Macedonia and also some other migrant countries charge 20, 25 euros to transport them from point A to point B. Of course our capabilities are not limitless. It's not going to work forever. And imagine that the migrant crisis continues for a few months and that the intensity is much greater than it is today, then I am not sure whether Slovenia will sustain these things financially. It would therefore be appropriate to consider at least partial financing of these transport costs. If we decide as humanitarian people not to charge these routes to mothers and children, I'm charging them to single men. This seems to me to be a completely proportionate measure in terms of our abilities. And the final theme: the congregations. We have discussed many times in this hall and discussed whether we have a suitable number of congregations. What a number of people have advocated in this hall is that I am not alone in reducing the number of congregations. My claim is that municipalities in Slovenia have made a lot of good, reduced regional differences and are one of the few in the country that have invested intensively or at least intensively in infrastructure. And that would be suicide. If I say otherwise, what Mr Virant has failed formally with the law, this government will succeed informally with its finances. How do you destroy or lock someone up? It's very simple. That's how you put his tentacles in. This government and those who want to reduce the number of congregations do not even need a special law to reduce the number of congregations, but it will happen naturally, for this way the money will be held back to the congregations. What's going on now? In the past, congregations were established because individual parts of the congregations were dissatisfied and wanted to go their own way because they knew that they would grow faster. There are many examples of prosperity in neglected parts of the new congregation. Now these congregations are running out of money, and sooner or later it will turn out that these congregations, except for some purely basic matters, such as the functioning of the municipal administration, preschool care, and some other little things, are virtually unable to finance. And at that point, the citizens will also start to wonder, yes, and then the point is that we have such congregations if the mayor or the congregation council is unable to provide us even a kilometer of sidewalk. At that time, a climate will be created that will be inclined to reduce the simple number of municipalities. I think it's wrong. If regional differences are to be reduced, the funding of municipalities needs to be strengthened. That's the way it is. I would like to be much more optimistic and happy that it will not only be about maintaining the status quo but also about serious reforms at the time of future consideration of budgets or budgets' rebalancing. But surely it is a relief for you to have an opposition in Parliament today to support your reforms.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Let's get Mr. Marko Ferruga ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! We have a budget ahead of us for 2016 and 2017. To be honest with you, I really expected these two budgets to be substantially more or generally development-oriented. But you're not really any of it. Why? When I remember that we have discussed the budget rebalans for 2014 and 2015, you said that these are not your documents that you need to make rebalancies, they are just more technical corrections. These are your documents, Your Honor. And I would really expect at least some kind of vision to be given through these documents and to see where the development of Slovenia will go in the future. Many, many reforms have been promised since the reform of health care, but we do not have it, from the reform of the education system, which we do not have, to the reform of the public sector, which we do not have. There has been a promise of tax relief, but I must say that we have received more tax burden than just unloading, and we should look at the economy or the population here. If I expose some, it is right to point out this, because this is also part of this budget. The tax on financial transactions and the tax on insurance services has been raised. Both have become a burden for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We get tax receipts at the beginning of the year, which represent an additional burden mainly for small businesses. There's been an increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. Additional loads for individual products again. What is most painful, however, is that in fact the higher value added tax rate is being increased systematically. Let me stress that this higher rate of value added tax was in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2014 and 2015. Now you are regulating this systemically, and thus, of course, you are also detonating this high rate of value added tax, which, of course, poses a major problem for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You're lowering the averages to the municipalities. The negotiations have failed today and we cannot say otherwise than that the averages are falling and in some way the introduction of real estate tax is planned. And I'm sure there's something else we can find. The budget is a disappointment with one word and what has already been highlighted here today and is likely to be repeated is that there is so much reduction in investment funds. I understand. We had an old financial perspective that had a major impact on investment levels in 2014 and 2015 in particular. But still, the decline in investment seems to me to be significantly too great. I now wonder in general how real this budget is. If I make a few points. At some public hearing, there is a mini-tax reform or I don't know what to call it, it's certainly not a tax reform, it's a set of tax legislation. The public hearing was given on 10 November. The time for the interested public to make their comments, proposals, is until 20 November. At that time, this budget is likely to be adopted. In view of your haste in addressing these laws, I believe you are promising some benefits or consequences for these two budgets. Somehow I don't understand this logic, how can we adopt a budget before we can essentially adopt laws that are budget-bound or that are public-treated, that have not even been discussed in public? Are you signaling to the public that any of the initiatives and proposals given will not be taken into account, or is the procedure itself a bit strange? I'm really wondering if you're doing this right, if that's right. Secondly, I am actually concerned about these highly planned revenues from European funds. Yeah, it was explained. Some of them are still at the expense of an old financial perspective, some by different funds. But when we look at purely real, we don't have a call for a new financial perspective. I cannot imagine that the revenue from European funds will be higher in 2016 than it will be in 2015 when we have an end to the old financial perspective. So it actually seems to me that these revenues are, I'll just say, a little puffed up, maybe on purpose. But this is more than one billion euros. Third, of course, what has been repeatedly exposed to today is a migration issue. 123 million euros are planned. Of this, around €50 million is expected to be additionally indebted and €73 million is expected to be recovered from the so-called European Funds. These numbers are made exclusively for the transit of migrants. If the situation turns around a little bit, if Austria starts by closing the border or it's already doing selection at the border and it says that refugees are being accepted and migrants are not, maybe there'll be more migrants here at some point. These amounts are not included in the budget. These numbers are based exclusively on the transit of migrants, so I think they're still very unrealistically planned. When we look at the expenditure, there's an actual interest number in the sky that's worrying. We know where the reasons are, it's past debts, and it wasn't enough this year, not least. But we know when it was most indebted, and we know that this is also due to the rehabilitation of the banking system itself and why it happened. The negotiations were highlighted. I believe they were heavy. One was less successful than the other. Negotiations with the public sector are certainly successful. I was stabbed by the Minister of Public Administration, who said that the public sector has driven development in Slovenia. I personally think a little differently. I think that the driver of development should be the economy and the public sector should serve the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We can have one that we can afford. Public sector reform, which has not been undertaken, has been promised. And it's more than obvious that he won't. When you ask for an average assessment, because we have the performance assessments of public sector staff, we see that they are all above average. The average score is 4.9 out of 5. Now, somebody explain to me that this system is normal. If I were normal, at least some normal distribution would apply here. Unfortunately, as it has been said, the economy has not been successful in its negotiations; it has also been unsuccessful for the congregations, which I am actually very concerned about. We know that in 2014 and also in 2015 they will contribute significantly to the economic growth of Slovenia itself. If we look at the budget's own explanations, they're very sceptical, unambitious, there's no developmental orientation again, and the indicators are typical bureaucratic that they're actually hard to read. It measures, I don't know, the number of projects, but it never measures the results. The Committee on the Economy pointed out that investment, tourism and the timber sector are key within the Ministry of the Economy. Here, too, I fear that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance are in some way inconsistent. If the Minister of the Economy encourages investment and, on the other hand, the Minister of Finance comes with the so-called tax reform, which reduces the incentives for investment, reduces the incentives for research and development, raises the tax on profits, yes, I don't know how they can talk to each other and both advocate that they are in favour of promoting investment. Probably not that way. But I also have to express my disappointment. No amendments by the opposition were adopted on the Finance Committee itself. There were no debates, except for how much she was on our side. You just turned them down. And that is why I fear that this mini-tax reform of yours, that it already is and will be, and without connection, is enough to give the interested public some suggestions on this. Because you obviously don't want to talk too much. But I'm more concerned that you're defending something on one side, and now I'm going to point out what's in one of our amendments. During the month of April, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Economic and Agriculture, we all agreed that Haloze was one problem area that needed special treatment. You supported all the customers here in the National Assembly. By the end of July, we have instructed the Government to prepare measures for the integrated development of Haloz. The government appointed a task force. In this working group are representatives of both the Government and representatives of local interest organisations. Of course, later, at their initiative, this mandate extended to the group until the end of the year. The measures are being prepared. There were many ministers in the Haloz area, he was the Prime Minister of the Government, he was the President of the State. We made a lot of promises, but we know that if we want to, but some kind of development is accelerating, there's probably something that needs to be done. But you didn't reserve the funds for that in the budget. Okay. It happens. With this mass, we could forget everything. However, we have made amendments to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members because we speak for the financial years 2016 and 2017. And even if you have extended that the measures must be ready by the end of the year, of course there are two years when these measures should be implemented. And certain resources will be needed. But you didn't support the amendments. You didn't even propose any other options. No one discussed it. You just didn't support the amendment. But no matter what, I'm a very optimist, and we're just voting on the amendments at a meeting of the National Assembly, and somehow I'm counting on your support. As has already been announced in some way at the meeting of the Financial Committee itself, the budget for 2017 does not take into account the migration problem, which means that in 2016 we will have a budget rebalancing in one way or another. Why don't I support the budget? Because I think it is primarily about saving on investment and, on the other hand, about preserving some social peace. Because it does not necessarily include the necessary reforms that you have promised, and because the tax and administrative additionally burdens the economy. And I don't think that's right. My assessment is that we should invest significantly more in investment, that we should invest more in infrastructure, not least that means the start of the economy, that means new jobs, that also means prosperity and a better life for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and especially for young people, for younger generations and future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Hello, ladies from the Ministry of Finance and everyone else present. Yes, in our National Assembly, it's just that one of us is looking at a glass half full, the other one is looking at a glass half empty. So is the opposition, so is the coalition. And we don't have anything here. But it is that in most things the opposition sees increasingly negative, and we as a coalition are more positive, which is also legitimate. But it must be said that, however we turn these things around the budget, this budget is linked to some past heritage that we all like to forget, and we always take it out of context and forget who was in previous governments, what previous governments have done, what actions those governments have taken, and whether it is also an impact of some external, extraordinary factors, such as economic or social, or whether it is global, or whether it was this crisis that was around. We can also say that this is a macro or a microview of what this budget looks like and how it is made up. It is, however, the fact that this budget is the sum total of all of these, is a set of desires, some needs, and in the final stage also some measures that are to be demonstrated in the future or that are in the stage of action. But all in the context that the budget is somehow in some reasonable, sustainable branches. Last but not least, we have adopted this golden rule, the true sustainability of public finances and the reduction of this excessive public deficit. But then we must not forget all of these things, which have limited us to a certain extent and have us say that we are trying to reduce this deficit, as has already been said, is what we call this billion interest accrued from the previous actions of previous governments. It's to be saved. That's clear. At the same time, we need to see, somehow, that all other things work in a sustainable way, so part of the investment, so part of certain things. Yes, but that's what Mrs. Shimenka said nicely, and some things are positive. I see the positive signals reported through this budget by the specific Ministry of the Economy, and this is in this part of tourism, where there is a significant percentage of the increase in this work, the advertising abroad and the operation of the WTO and all these other things. And the second part, which is important in the Ministry of Economy, is the Directorate for Wood. The government has seen that they are one of two important segments. Why am I saying this? Wood is one of the primary raw materials Slovenia has to deal with, and thank God it is. But all the predecessors forgot about it, this wood chain actually destroyed and 40 thousand or more jobs were lost. Here is an important signal to all those working in the wood industry that this is one of the priorities that will somehow grow in these years. This is also reflected in the budget. The next thing is tourism. Here too, the government has found very lucidly that these trends in tourism, which are in the world and even in us, bring jobs and profits to the country, both from taxes and from other matters. There's probably something else to add here. When we talk about security and everything else, the government has also given a very large and important signal that it is concerned and that it cares about the security of the people, of all of us, and has therefore increased the resources of the police. The other thing is how and what this is done, how it has been done and how it will be done in advance. These are signals that indicate some positive attitude towards this budget. Of course, we can only look at the bad side then, so that I don't know how much investment, but there will be some moderation there. We must be clear once that we do not have a magic wand, that we do not have any oil wells and that we must live in harmony with what we have, what are our real and reasonable abilities. Otherwise, we're going to go back not only for 1 billion, but we're going to get 2, 3, 5, and we're going to be in debt indefinitely, and we're going to pay these interest, and it's not going to be 30 billion debt, it's going to be more. I think that the government must be within some reasonable framework to set up this budget, which is a reflection of this time and the situation that we now have here. I support it and it is clear that this cannot be done in any way on some grounds that are not in line with the real situation, so social, economic and also in view of the trends in the world. I support this budget, and I'll be in touch later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam President. We have a slightly unusual situation. On the one hand, we have government representatives who remind us in their initial speech of how much they have done and what good forecasts we have ahead. However, when we come to specific numbers, these same representatives point out how difficult the moments are and how we must gather together. I must say, I find it difficult to discuss here today if there is no finance minister between us. I think we have some very abnormal situation when we are talking about some financial backbone of this crucial period of the government, but it does not seem worth sitting with us, Minister of Finance. There's a thick map on the table and it's not there. I wonder where he is. He wasn't on the board, he came in for three-quarters of an hour, and then he left, and the rest of the time, he left the secretary of state to do his job for him. While the Secretary of State has repeatedly pointed out that it is only the professional work of the Ministry of Finance, not the one that explains the political direction of the Ministry. It's just the minister, and he's the one who sets the political guidelines. What else is the 2016 and 2017 budget as a political mirror of this government's operation? These two budgets are the child of Mira Cerar and the child, because we have a dual, Minister of Finance of Marble. The only two budgets that make it impossible for the gentlemen concerned to respond to the restrictions imposed by the previous Government to some new circumstances that they did not foresee. For a year and a half, they sit in ministerial chairs or presidential chairs and have all the information available to set up such a budget within the meaning of the Coalition Treaty. The Minister of Finance is 15. 9. In 2014, he said at the hearing that the Ministry of Finance did not have an analytical department and that they were therefore weak in the area of the budget. He then said that he would replace some of the advisors for the research of experts in this area: "...have models, microsimulations and others, because in the Faculty of Economics many times I saw that the decisions were made in mind, and then we recalculated and determined whether or not the matter was drinking water. I would like to ensure it in advance." He spoke about his field before the beginning of his term of office. He had a year and a half to do what he told the Members on that committee, then he went to the committee, and he did. Then we have the result of these two budgets ahead of us. At that time, he also announced some basics of his operation as a finance minister, saying: "As I said before, unfortunately fiscal policy will have to be restrictive, but I see an increase in public revenues mainly from two sources, namely the more efficient functioning of FURS," but let us remember, we still have 1.4 billion unrecovered tax debt, "the other economic growth". See, if anything, economic growth is effective, is relatively high, the government boasts about economic growth that it has done so itself, the previous government says it is mainly the result of its work. But this budget, with all the accompanying measures, i.e. raising taxes, introducing new taxes, does not reflect that economic growth is expected to bring more competitiveness. Quite the opposite. With the new administrative obstacles towards tax confirmations of invoices or those tax receipts and the raising of taxes previously mentioned, it only makes the competitive situation in the country worse. And then the minister said that he would be committed to restructuring businesses, improving corporate governance, which, with the last appointment of the new SDH director, we see that the facility is 180 degrees, all the sooner than that, privatisation, which is what this budget and all the government's actions show that the government is going in a completely different direction, foreign direct investment, where I do not see any results. And the third conclusion would be, he added that this could be achieved together with an increase in competitiveness. Once again: competitiveness has not increased, with new administrative constraints and new taxes you are only reducing this competitiveness. Now we have the budget ahead of us in concrete numbers. And even here, I must admit, I'm surprised by some inconsistencies. Now I don't know if the ministries are coordinated or not. Remember the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, who said that the migrant crisis has cost us 6.6 million euros so far, with 200,000 refugees to Slovenia. We are now reading in this budget that 123 million euros are foreseen for the continuation of the migration crisis. See, if we count on the costs advocated by Secretary of State, this means that we expect 3.6 million migrants in the following year with these 123 million at the same dynamics across our borders. 6.6 million for 200,000, so for 123 million we get 3.6 million. Now, whether this number is wrong, too high, or because of the public opinion, Mr Šefic is speaking the wrong number, this figure is significantly higher and will only show how much it will actually cost. If we look at the rest of the numbers, I'd only draw attention to some of them. The former prime minister discussed how less investment will be made in this budget. For example, at the Ministry of Infrastructure, railway infrastructure activity, investment activities. In 2016, one third of this as in 2015 is allocated to the railway. One third of that! Or, your mouth is full of water as human rights, environmental protection and so on. Go to area 15, Environmental protection and infrastructure, sustainable water use and water management – one third of the budget as of this year. One third! In 2017 even worse – one week! Furthermore, waste management, in 2016 one sixth, and in 2017 only 3% of this as in 2015. And then whoever's supposed to find out, the Republic of Slovenia's Environmental and Space Inspectorate gets a third less funding. Strange priorities, much more, and you take away from others without any difficulty. I guarantee you, if it were, let's say another government, if it were a right-centre government, there would be a lot of protests today before the National Assembly and a lot more media reverberation would be on this topic than it is at this point. Let's move on. At the time of his inauguration or when we heard him in Parliament while he was still going to the committees, the marble said that the fact that public sector salaries in Slovenia represent more than in EU countries was the case. We have about 12% of gross domestic product and 10% of euro area countries. However, this share increased by EUR 148 million. While the economists warn you day in and day out that you only take them away from them and that you do not listen to them. And if Mr Maramor then said at the hearing that competitiveness is one of the key factors in getting out of the crisis, then I really don't understand how such stepmotherly behaviour can be towards the economy, to those who are essentially creating added value so that Minister Marble can then divide it. And as far as the amendments are concerned. I must say that, for the first time, I was very disappointed by the developments in the Finance Committee, where in some ways the coalition was looking forward to not supporting any of the proposed amendments. It was like some kind of achievement. However, we have decided not to support any of the proposed amendments. I mentioned earlier what Minister Marble told us a year and a half ago that he would do something to make the budget more development-oriented and what are the priorities he sees. These two budgets for 2016 and 2017 certainly do not take this into account. He didn't do it the way he predicted, and the coalition is happy to say, "We won't support any amendments." More. I quote the Minister, he said, "In view of the proposed amendments, which have been tabled in the supplementary draft budget for these two years, I ask you for caution in their adoption." Can you imagine? The Minister calls on Members not to accept the amendment. Who's putting up ministers and who's putting up MPs? Is the minister the one who appoints the Members and tells them what to do and what not to do? Are Members of Parliament, the legislative branch of power, those who accept the normative basis under which the executive branch of authority operates? Look at this respect! The minister comes and says, "Now I suggest you do not support this." Then it goes. And you put a good pressure on the keys, and don't support any amendments when they're put in, because the minister says, "I ask you to be careful when you accept them." Then he says that this would constitute a violation of the constitutional fiscal rule, saying that the 148 million for public servants would already be covered by transfers within, and that there was no place for any other amendments because the Government adopted on Friday the view that the amendments to the draft budget were not supported. Now we have an interesting situation where the government's enforcement suit indicates in some way self-sufficiency. The National Assembly, however, is the one to confirm everything the government proposes. And then we get to these amendments, many of which are very good and meaningful and they go in the right direction. And since the minister, who is not here today, has instructed the government coalition not to confirm them, you will not confirm them – or how? Let me stop at one more amendment, given that the minister was also talking about a bank hole at the inaugural speech. The Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry unanimously decided that it needed professional assistance for its work. Members also know that certain funds are needed for professional assistance. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance said on the Committee on Finance that it was normal for Parliament to provide investigative assistance to the Commission. Then we come up with an amendment that weighs 150 000 euros, which is one six millionth of a budget, and one answer is very simple: "No, we don't support!" Look, here is really the question whether he was in favour of, for the establishment of a parliamentary investigative commission to discover the reasons and responsible for the bank hole, the 68, i.e. more than two thirds, honest or not. To be honest, Members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry must also provide professional assistance. If not, then this is another of those broken initiatives: Miro Cerar before the elections and Miro Cerar after the elections. So it's a perfectly diametric picture. When it comes to realisation, there's no such thing as realisation. I must say that it seems a little odd to me that the Minister of Finance still has about 150,000 euros, which, from the perspective of the entire budget, almost no amount, seems very important to stress that this change does not support it. Even more unusually, it seems to me by the members of the coalition that you take this instruction from the Minister of Finance, that whatever you say calmly, we will not support any amendments in any way. Why does the budget then go to Parliament if we cannot supplement this budget in Parliament if you expect the budget to be adopted as proposed by the Government? Then we don't need Parliament, then in fact Parliament is just a voting machine. With or without a smile, just a voting machine. The purpose of the parliamentary debate is to improve the proposals in the course of the debate. However, if the representative of the Government says that it should not improve and the coalition therefore votes not to improve, then you have missed the basis of democratic regulation and power-sharing. I will talk about the amendment later, but quite a number of words and actions will prove in this budget either to hold or not to hold. And what we see is ready, those initial introductory words from the beginning of the Minister's term of office have no longer come true. I'm afraid – but look, like my colleague, I am an eternal optimist, that in the course of the debate, one of the coalition parties will also meet with intelligence and will be aware of the role of Parliament and will vote in his own conscience, not in the conscience of a minister who is not with us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Let me tell you a list of discussers. Next comes Miha Kordiš, followed by Mrs Vojka Šergan, then Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, then Mr Jernej Vrtovec, then Dr. Franz Runch, then Mag. Marko Pogačnik, then Mr Janko Weber, then Mr Uroš Prikl. Now Mr Miha Kordish has the word to prepare Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u77	Madam President, thank you for your word. At the time of the consideration of this budget, I have been on several committees, and especially on the Committee on Social Affairs, I have faced with the excuse of the coalition Members that everyone would want more in this budget, but with the resources we are limited to as much as we are. So we are faced with a TINA argument created by Margaret Thatcher a few decades ago with an argument that there is no alternative here. Of course it doesn't. The alternative exists, this is our alternative proposed in the United Left as a socialist political option. This alternative is, of course, much better than what we have now and from the direction we are now going. This is the direction of provincialism, the direction of neoliberalism offered jointly by all the regime's parties. These alternatives, however, cannot be realised by the fact that they build their power on the support of privileged layers in Slovenian society. When I talk about privileged groups, I am talking about those 10% of the Slovenian population that, according to an official ECB survey, own 35% of all assets in this country. I am talking about those layers that make 20% of the weakest, poorest people in Slovenia have only 1.2% of all the wealth created. I am talking about classes and policies that our development into underdevelopment also benefits them, because they take for example some of our neighbouring countries, which are really poorer than Slovenia, and therefore have a richer population loss than our own. The alternative offered by the socialists is an alternative to abolishing these privileges. The alternative is a policy that interferes with these unfairly distributed assets and incomes and then uses them as a common benefit to the better lives of the vast majority of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Therefore, in the United Left, we will by no means agree to the excuses that there is no alternative. It just doesn't hold. She's an alternative. It is true, however, that the ruling coalition and the entire political class of this alternative are not incapable of seeing, not willing to see, what to do. However, they are not able to fail because they would thus step on the fingers of those interest groups and those lobbying that are the foundation of their power. Without capital and media support, without this backdrop, this farce, which we are witnessing today with this budget, would not last much longer in power, except to maintain a continuous political hegemony in Slovenia over the last 25 years. The higher taxation of capital and high income is an essential element of the budget alternative offered by the socialists. Thus, we must by no means talk about any extortion, but we can talk more about some fundamental social justice. Therefore, in the United Left with the amendments, we have acceded to the law on the implementation of the budget and have proposed measures to increase the revenues that are feasible immediately and that are as social as possible. And I'm gonna do it again. The first such measure is the return of the corporate tax rate from 17 % to 20 %. Then there's a reduction in the threshold of the fourth income class, so it captures 35 of those people with the best salaries, not just 3.4 millet, like today's situation. We can agree that this is in no way fair. Then there is even higher taxation of the income of natural persons than capital, i.e. interest, dividends and capital gains. These measures would raise an additional €140 million in the Slovenian budget, without anyone really being deprived of anything on this account. Perhaps the richest layer would be cut off by the tinyness of their luxury. And these short-term measures could significantly improve the situation of people living in absolute poverty. Here I am talking about 60,000 recipients of monetary social assistance and a security allowance which this country does not provide for decent survival. Here I am also talking about 10,000 others who do not receive any assistance due to a low price. Look, these are the most disadvantaged people in Slovenian society. The likelihood that a citizen will be present in this group increases further when it comes to single - parent families. Here the probability jumps twice, or if it comes to pensioners in the countryside. However, if it is an elderly woman who, for example, lives alone, is likely to find herself in such an unenviable social situation, almost three times the average. The increase in the minimum income of the EUR 385, as proposed in the United Left, would significantly improve the situation of these people, who, at the moment, in Slovenian society, are really pushed to the brink of social misery, and their poor social situation is not continuing because of the same people, but because of their social dissuasion of the Slovenian government's policy, the government's policy of coalition, which also holds the right opposition in this segment. The price for what we're proposing, you know, these aren't some drastic numbers. We are not talking about the billions and a half of Euros that have exploded into the TES 6 project. The price would not even be EUR 300 million, as our professional army costs, which is included in a defence system that does not service the defence needs of Slovenian citizens and citizens. We're not even talking about hundreds of millions of euros here. We are talking about the fights of €60 million. And we would do so much with them for those most disadvantaged, the most exclusive of the poorest in Slovenian society. And please, we can stop pretending that the rehabilitation of the situation of these disadvantaged groups in any way in our society limits the current economic situation. That's not true. This needs to be made clear. These people are scattered, left to themselves, having no real impact on power. And that's why all the stuff in them is stuck, and all the moves are impossible. The government, the government coalition, the right opposition just don't want to protect them, they don't want to take them under their wing because they serve the interests of the rich and the interests of the capital. Those who are pushed to the greatest margin in Slovenian society are placed in the worst social position, so they have no leverage and means of pressure to help themselves politically. In the United Left, we are proposing budgetary alternatives that are neither utopian nor radical, and they are pursuing an agenda of social justice. We are not even going to wind tax rates indefinitely, as Marxists also know certain economic dynamics and it is crystal clear to us that, at some point, raising taxes leads to negative effects. But our proposal seeks basic social justice, and it does not reach this point anywhere. See, we had a 25% profit tax in Slovenia ten years ago. Today, the European average in this category is 22.6%. For example, in Austria, the profit tax is 20%, and in neighbouring Italy, it is 27.5%, that I do not even start to discuss Germany. If we propose today to return this tax to 20%, which would generate an additional €87 million in revenue, we propose something that is completely realistic. And this does not require any additional administrative burden and can be carried out overnight. Let us not forget that these levels were also reduced overnight. Why not reverse this trend and help our state budget with additional revenue, so that this budget will address the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable groups in our country? In addition, socialists are also proposing a reduction in the 4th grade of income. We are proposing something that we had in Slovenia ten years ago, when we were still about a normal country. If our proposals are accepted, 3% of the best-paid people would pay a little more income than they pay today. We're not talking about any enormous amounts here, nobody's going to be put at risk for that. No, no, no, no, no! However, we are talking about the 3% best paid. For an illustration, the President of the Government, who is in the 65th pay grade, would pay 57 euros in income more per month than he pays today. And I'm just going to ask you, maybe provocative, but certainly honest — can anyone say that such a measure is wrong? Can anyone say that the Prime Minister of the Government, because he's going to pay 57 euros in income more, what's wrong with that? Of course not. A member of the administration of a state bank, which is listed even higher in its incomes, would pay 260 euros more. Can anyone say that this is unfair? No, of course not. The expansion of the 4th grade base would generate an additional EUR 30 million, which is missing in this budget. This would be achieved by dropping the 4th grade limit on a real number. These are not additional burdens, you know, they are purely basic social justice and comparable numbers such as neighbouring countries and comparable numbers as the whole of the European Union. Today, wages in Slovenia are taxed at only 70,000 and several euro net tax bases. That's huge. This is significantly more than in the Netherlands, where the 52% class starts at 57 000 and some net annual base. Let's compare these two numbers and we'll see the enormous differences. This applies to the Netherlands, where gross social product is twice as high as ours. These are two measures, the first two measures, short-term measures that can contribute to this budget on the revenue side. However, if our tax system also covered what we are losing today in the form of health insurance premiums, if they introduced some real estate tax and property based on solidarity, we would have much more resources and much more money, a manoeuvre space for common welfare systems and could talk about reducing certain social taxes, such as value added tax. We know it's a regressive tax. This pocket tax hits with the same sharpness as the rich guy. Of course, this is translated into practice so that the rich person of this tax does not even feel terrible, but the poor person does. When the restaurant of capitalism came into existence, we preserved a measure of capitalism with a human face, mainly due to the power of trade unions and labour movements in Slovenia. Even though our European partners – like Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal – have turned their backs on us in the crisis – we have still managed to maintain a society that is 25th in the Human Development Index, that is, in front of countries such as Spain and Italy. You may not be aware of this in the coalition, but with every new budget, you are increasingly threatening this civilizational achievement of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I see the budget for the next two years as a developmental approach, and I would like to link it somehow to the fact that if the budget is not directed, we are not finally entering the new financial perspective 2014-2020. We've received a smart specialization. We have a national development programme and, last but not least, an integrated budget for all these development funds that we will receive from Europe provides the part that will not be financed by European funds. That is why I think that the integrated budget somehow supports this development. It is therefore development-oriented because it supports investments aimed at combining European funds with an integrated budget. If I somehow touch the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where there is also the opinion of some that the budget is not development-oriented. In this case, too, I would like to discuss in this direction that the rural development programme provides 1.1 million funding for the 2014-2020 perspective. And it is not true that the reduction in funds for 2016 is somehow apparent, because in the past or in 2015 the funds from the previous perspective have been pumped rapidly, and this also affects the comparison when we look at how much funding has been earmarked for 2015 and how much will be used for 2016, 2017. Given the start of the new investment cycle, the rural development programme is also positive and oriented towards achieving its objectives. The objectives defined by the Rural Development Programme and by the European Commission have been set, and our Slovenian sides have been endorsed in February this year, are focused on innovation, investment, new jobs, climate change, biodiversity, which means, inter alia, that competitiveness, sustainability, sustainability, will go to the leader programme or CLLD, where the needs of the local population will be met and all those ideas that are not supported in Ljubljana and not in Brussels will be achieved, and the local community will be able to achieve its needs and objectives in this way. In addition, there will be a considerable amount of funding for young farmers to start new farms. Thus, we could not say that the rural development programme is not development-oriented under the 2016-2017 budget. Of course, since we are at the beginning of this cycle, this investment cycle in 2016 will not be fully revived because the projects will be in preparation or will be prepared, and this will certainly be followed by the end of 2016 and 2017. I am convinced that projects are enough to also run these investment cycles through projects. In addition, I believe that the rate of self-sustainment is improving in the agricultural sector, as it also increased statistically by as much as 9% in 2013. The economic results of agriculture have also improved in the past since the adverse years. The exports of agri-food products increased by 9,6 %. The best drawback of available resources was in Action 112, Aid to young takeovers already in the past perspective 2013-2014. The average size of agricultural holdings is increasing, and this is also somehow a trend towards improving agricultural activities. In addition, the conduct of complementary activities is also increasing. If in 2000 only 5% of agricultural holdings had complementary activities, this increased to 16%. During the following period or for 2016, the appropriations are earmarked and foreseen for direct payments, which are refunded at 100 %, for the implementation of the national action plan to reduce the use of plant protection products, for the purpose of implementing the national action plan for the reduction of the use of plant protection products, for the purpose of reducing or prohibiting the production of GMO plants, additional resources will be allocated to the animal welfare measure, which will mean the free movement of animals and, of course, better quality foods. Then additional resources will be allocated to inform and promote agricultural and food products, and in the area of forest management, a law will be considered in the coming days to establish a forest forest chain, which will also somehow place this rural area in a new development potential for the next period. In the light of the discussions I would say so myself, the list of wishes that we would like is, of course, a long one. But where to take it and who to give it to, that's another question that needs to be dealt with and thought about. So I think that in this situation and in this situation, and in view of all the macroeconomic indicators, the budget is optimally prepared in specific areas, so that we need to keep an optimistic eye forward and I think it is not all black to find a whole range of positive things or orientations that will lead Slovenia to be more successful in the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u80	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the National Assembly or at least at committee meetings, we have heard many things, from the fact that the fence is not a fence, that the criteria for judicial functions or advancements are no longer criteria. Well, today was at all interesting and the best one out of the mouth of the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest coalition party when she stated at the end of her position: "Good luck, budget 2016, 2017!" You know, you usually want that when you're not even sure what you're doing. I have a feeling that most likely the whole thing won't last until the first three months of next year. But if you look at the individual items and what this budget brings, the fellow Member said some interesting things — the free movement of animals. Great, if that's what you need to point out and it's crucial, then it's nice, it's great. However, if you take a good look at the revenue and expenditure side of this budget, I think we can say: one great sadness. One great sorrow, and I'll tell you why. The budget will be recharged as a bottomless pit with new tax burdens. Before you could hear in the position of the Group of Members, Comrade Shircelj made it clear that this will in particular affect the weakest, because these tax burdens will be the same for all and those who already live so hard or live even under the edge of poverty will be as burdensome as those who live much better or even too well in view of the situation in the country. Because, of course, they do it in an illegal way. There was also a lot of talk about promoting the economic environment. I will recall the statement made by Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Počvalska, who stated at the summit of the Slovenian economy that a so-called competition package was being prepared. Certainly not a competition package with this budget. In fact, we're going to take one more investor out of this country. Why? Since there will be virtually no investment in the economy, investments in infrastructure are frozen and many investors need just that. And that's exactly what keeps him from investing in Slovenia, says in our country, in our economy. That's the problem with the budget. Of course, the deficit is higher, 2.1% of GDP. One would understand if this budget, on the other hand, were to bring some economic momentum, the breathing of the economy, so as to say, look, small businesses could develop, they could upgrade their work, they would end up with a so-called employment spasm. But that's not gonna happen. Let me remind you and remind you that Slovenia is again at the top of the ranking when it comes to the employment of young people for a certain period of time. We are back at a summit in the European Union, and we have the highest percentage of fixed-term employment. Then we expect young people to create families to stay in Slovenia. In what way if they're not done in their own tomorrow? That's the first problem for young people. The second problem for young people is that they do not get jobs as the first job seekers. There are no essential steps here either. And what I said in the introduction when I talked about youth employment is that they stay too many times on student travel and contracts. This will not help to bring more than 8,000 young people back to Slovenia. Then you promised in the coalition contract that intergenerational cooperation should be built. Yeah, who's gonna take care of our elders if there's no kids? How can parents go to a peaceful retirement if they know that their children simply cannot be independent because of the situation in the country? Thus, budget 2016 and 2017 does not give any optimism in this respect. Unfortunately, I can be optimistic, but it's not going to help, you have to look at the real picture. And these are the facts. The coalition has also promised in its coalition treaty to quote: "This government is a political association of those parliamentary political parties who are aware of the positive values and developmental potentials of our people and the country. We don't take them, but we're willing to serve them." Ladies and gentlemen, tell me now, with this budget, who serves whom. Given that there will be tax burdens, it must be the other way around. 123 million for the so-called migrant crisis. This information is not sure, it can be bigger, it can be something smaller. We wish he wasn't here at all. But 123 million will be a migrant crisis to mention, by the way, that is slightly less than the entire budget for culture. Of course, because the real government is in power, we do not have protests and whistleblowers on the part of cultural workers, but the fact is that the budget for culture is falling pretty well, and on the other hand today our first Prime Minister, Dr Cerar, has heard that migrants cannot be charged some costs. Why not?Oh, my God! If you are a migrant, if you go to another country, if you get a better job there, or if you have a better education, you have a few tens of thousands of euros, you will probably take care of some of the urgent matters. On the one hand, we are not prepared to charge such services, but on the other hand we have a huge number not only of the unemployed, but also of those who live on the edge, and a fellow Member laughs about it, live on the edge, but you know, they, if they go on the train, they have to pay it, a respected colleague. And no one asks them whether they have money or not to transport. A lot of them will say, I can't see a doctor, or I can't go to court because I just don't have the money for it. We're capable of taking the property, the house they live in, for 123 euros. So we're creating refugees in our own country. Why double standards, respectable? And one more thing. With these 123 million, I would then ask the Secretary-General's reply, if there are any costs for the so-called refugees or migrants, whatever they will ask in Slovenia for asylum, and after some calculations Mr. Finance Minister Maramor said that it would be approximately EUR 10 000 per migrant per year. I'd like to know if that's included. Also, this budget is not realistic but incomplete because you were unable to reach agreement with the municipalities. We've got 212. You can explain to me here that there were 10 or 20 rounds of negotiations, but there is no result. And to come to the National Assembly with a budget that was not coordinated with such an important segment is a very important and very worrying message for me. What the Slovenian municipalities can even hope for, but we know from all the information and behavior in the past that they are doing very well and very well with their money. In most cases, I'm sure. Surely we can say that they are a better master than the state. And something else about austerity measures or the Public Finance Balance Act. I also heard on the board that these are not austerity measures. What are they? Practically all things are being extended, austerity measures are being extended, even though they were adopted when the country was in crisis, when Europe was also in crisis and even wider. Today, these countries are already practically recording economic growth. All austerity measures are practically behind them, and we have almost everything to extend. So we are also in this, although some say that we have been successful as a government party in the negotiations, of course for those on the other hand, so the public sector is still important every euro that comes into this account. But you know, negotiated regression, it really isn't now I don't know what. You were also talking about a salary scale that will change with September. I wonder if this will also be true if, in the first half of the year, it is determined that public finances do not allow this to threaten fiscal balance. Can you guarantee and promise that this will hold or where you will get the money? You'll probably be in debt, and then the taxpayers will pay again, the wages will be charged, and then we'll turn around. The money we give them, we take that money away in some way. Not to say that I am merely criticising, I welcome the fact that in the field of justice you are practically not raising costs. Nice. Finally, you have found that a successful justice system or a successful judiciary does not depend on spending the most in Europe on one judge. At least there was something we were able to tell you at the time. And there's a lot of other things that need to be done for a successful trial. I think there is really no reason for optimism, especially because we cannot predict anything optimistic in this budget. The development will stand still, and somehow we'll take care of these opposite expenses. But you acted on your already well-known practice. You've rejected every amendment. Let me remind you how far you are going, even when you signed the coalition treaty, you promised that cooperation and mutual listening were very important for you. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which was aimed at this very time, is a time of the migration crisis, which is of course difficult and is not pre-announced to be taken into account in the so-called Public Finance Balance Act or the public sector's wages. You turned him down before we could explain it. You don't listen anymore. History has never ended well. It doesn't even end well in fairy tales, let alone in reality. I'm not gonna say good luck, budget! I'll say happy, citizens and citizens! I hope you don't bow down under that weight.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u82	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the word to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u83	Dear colleagues and colleagues and all the others who accompany us, Madam Secretary of State, President! Here, the year is around and we're seeing the number festival again. Once again, we are witnessing that one side defends its own, the other side of which, of course, challenges it. But more than just shifting numbers from an account to an account, how much you take, who you give to, and who you don't give to, is more important what the budget essentially tells us. The concept is essential. The concept of budget preparation itself. It is essential to reflect what the budget reflects, how directed we have a government, what this government is like, what its priorities are. That's what we get every year. This communication is always received every year by Members and Members and also by the public when the budget is adopted. The concept of preparing this budget somehow resembles the words of Minister Koprivnik, who said: "The public sector is the engine of state development." This is also where our budget goes, at least after impressions and debates, according to this. Why can't I support this budget and just briefly challenge those who say how this budget is development-oriented? Look, we can't talk about the budget, that it's development-oriented if the numbers, if the concept itself doesn't recognise one reform, one reform-oriented one. And here's the difference if you want, if some people don't have an answer, why Nova Slovenije didn't go to the government. Because New Slovenia is in favour of reform policy and would also make this clear in the budget, and unfortunately you are not on the other hand. And here's our fundamental difference. Status quo and status daring, status of desire for progress, after development. And we're going straight ahead. There's a lot more to pay. The expenditure side of the budget is therefore increasing. So the gap between income and expenditure is increasing. However, the key issue should be how we will fill the budget, what we will do to make our bag more full, and what measures the government anticipates that the bag will be fuller. We have not yet received a single reply to this debate. Where are the initiatives we're going to take for wages if you've already signed capitulation before the public sector, as journalist Milenkovic put it? It appears that in the coming year we will be witnessing a renewed debt so that we can pay our salaries to the public sector. When we are in the public sector, I would like only to add this to my fear of the moment when the public sector has so vehemently marked the budget as welcome and marked this time for the end of savings. On the other hand, thank God that the coalition in 2012 made this infamous ZUJF, to which today this National Assembly and the government coalition fit. The end of saving will be when our economy breathes with its lungs full. But at this time, nothing shows this budget that we are talking about today. Reforms. Health reform, we have been hearing about this from the very beginning. Let us look at the items under the Ministry of Health and ask whether this concept is going in the direction that in 2017 or in 2018 we will experience a health reform. No, no, no. The numbers don't make sense. But the demographic picture is increasingly convincing us to take this step, i.e. health reform and also pension reform, because both payers are getting smaller. Mercenaries are getting smaller and smaller through the eyes if we look at the migrant crisis in Germany as well. As a result, Germany has so vehemently welcomed migrants. Because they need payers. But we are completely without the concept of whether health reform is even necessary. We are saying that there is a need and that the budget does not foresee steps in this direction. Tax reform. You are now proposing a specific draft, which the economy has already said in its first response, that this is not what is expected to breathe with more full lungs. We are in favour of a new reform, or there are some new challenges to the debate, which will not reflect at all the fact that the economy is burdened by tax and contributions. Simplification of procedures is one of the fundamentals. What is attractive about this budget to attract foreign investors? Tell us what the budget provides for foreign investors to say is worth investing in Slovenia. Simplification of procedures, obtaining different authorisations for economic operators. There does not appear to be any change in this area either. And those who want to invest in development, build, expand, wait for these processes for years. None of the other countries of the European Union will have waited years for them to hire a few people in Slovenia and to create added value just because they will be allowed to do so. So we cannot say that the budget is development-oriented, because it is going in the opposite direction, in a completely flawed concept in relation to reforms. If I touch individual items really quickly, I'm running out of time. Infrastructure. That was a lot of talk. Roads. Various resolutions speak of road safety, and at this point it is estimated that more than 70% of Slovenian roads need a thorough reconstruction. We're saying that more than every fourth road needs to be rebuilt. It is true that the item is increasing here, but it is important to have a particular attitude towards how safe the roads must be for our drivers, for us, the participants in the traffic. Foreign car manufacturers give us lower car guarantees than, for example, other more developed countries of the European Union, because we do have very bad roads. The municipalities. The concept of relations with municipalities is clearly seen through the budget. The municipalities represent for the government some kind of spasm, some kind of alien in the whole component. But be aware that this moment of the congregation is an essential element of investment in the country. Who's running all the investments today, where the investments are going? Another track, maybe? No, no, no, no, no! The municipalities run most of the investments in this country. It is not clear, ladies and gentlemen, why this kind of attitude. It is taken primarily by them. It's about migrants. The plan is, of course, to the existing situation, which can deteriorate dramatically and given the winter situation, given that it is very difficult to assess what the migration flow will be like, for example, in May next year, in the light of all the other circumstances, and especially given that security does not have a price, this item is all one big fiasco. And to the end – science, young researchers. Here in the hall of the largest parliamentary group there are quite a few individuals and individuals who started their academic career as young researchers. You've been given this opportunity. And don't be surprised that young people make decisions instead of staying in our country, deciding to look for opportunities abroad. Even as young researchers. I don't understand the relationship, on the one hand we speak knowledge society, we invest in development, we invest in science, we need more scientists. On the other hand, the attitude towards them is self-explanatory in this budget. But I stress how the country will develop, how we will live in this country in 10 years' time, also depends on how much we invest in science and what our relationship to science is. I am afraid of this concept of the budget that we are saying that it is development-oriented only because we are saying that it is development-oriented. But you know, if you're saying that we don't understand barbed wires, we can't possibly say that reform, please, don't take it that we're not going to do anything. For reforms will also have to be done. There's a year around. The time for reforms, if we look at the end of 2018, is actually another year. 2017 is the last year, which you will have to pack somehow and also present comprehensive radical changes. I was kind of politically active myself between 2004 and 2008. Today, you also have one great opportunity: economic indicators are favourable, you have an opposition that is development-oriented and will be supportive of the proposals of your reforms if they are developed. And I don't know what else you're waiting for. You don't think we're somewhere at the beginning of the term. The budget for 2016 is, 2018 is ending. Time is running out. However, if you need help from the opposition, see, today we are proposing certain amendments, which are also of a more developmental nature, and I invite you to support our amendments, which we are adapting to. That's enough. I also look forward to this debate further because the 2017 budgets are still needed, especially in view of the fact that reforms are needed primarily for a better life today and for generations to come.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u84	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. Dear choir, distinguished secretary of state! In front of me, the speaker in front of me told us how the budget is usually viewed in Slovenia. I'm going to quote, "The account number festival." But if we actually ask ourselves, what is the budget? The budget is the most important story, the most important story of this society and country. Through the numbers we are told how we are going to live, some are merely surviving — this time for the next two years because we are talking about a Siamese twin. There's something sad about me in this debate. I must say that I am very happy to look at the budgetary discussions in some other parliaments. That's what I was doing before I came to the National Assembly. A month ago, I was with a delegation in a Parliament, where I was told that it would usually take a four-month budget debate. They've been discussing this for four months. They also spend so much time on this every year to analyse how state-owned companies operate and what knowledge must be given to those who will decide on this in the coming mandates. With us, I am old enough, we already have this tradition, unfortunately, almost, since this country exists, that somehow budgetary indebate is actually some kind of debate that goes on in a way that we can do what we can. Someone is in a coalition that is relatively always stable, and most of the opposition's amendments are somehow taken into account, and this is somehow this; something is being amended if there is a mistake on these many sub-items, sheets, accounts. And this is where it kind of stops. If we compare this with any debate in the budget in the English Parliament, you will say that they have a little different story there, but it is not that important, it is like day and night. The opposition is more written, at least seemingly, as a coalition, but I'll say, some of our views and criticisms still have something in common. In this budget we don't see any consistent story, it's still one, I must say, a rag like the last 10 years. Okay, the SMC MP said so, and we've adopted a smart socialisation strategy. For 20 years I have been working on development issues, and that smart specialization strategy is unreadable, written very generally, written from the current state through some lobbying. And if we go a little bit in a row, the forest-forest chain. You're all talking crazy about how fortunately I live so close to Austria, that I know what ProHolz means, that I know it's not just happening today or tomorrow. This morning I received this letter: "Dear Mr. Duck! We note with sadness and bitterness that despite months of effort and attention to the problem of the existence of one of the last timber and furniture companies in Slovenia, nothing has been done by the country. The Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Problems, which is to be confirmed in Parliament by the end of July 2015, has not yet..." and so on. In fact, it is Arosa mobileia, former Gorenje Furniture, which would require 600 000 bridge credit. This company pays EUR 1.4 million per year in the budget of the circus and, if it goes out, it will cost the budget 2 million. Here you have a concrete example of a wood-processing chain from the environment from which I come. Why did I mention that? I mentioned because somehow we are not talking about the budget, the revenue side, we are not talking enough about restructuring the economy. I do not regret that Mr Tonin is no longer present here, I am part of the non-marksist part of the United Left; this morning I carried Mr Cerar with me some chicken before the budget debate, and I will tell you what was on the pild. In fact, I wrote to him on the pildak, what is our economic relationship with Croatia and Serbia. In short, import-export. Okay, someone will tell me that I have to use some other words within the EU, but let's just let it stand. We export one tenth in these two countries, and we import about 6.6% there; in short, we have a balance sheet of good 900 million plus. Although I am not nostalgic for the former systems, if we add here the entire area of the former Yugoslav republics, this is actually seven of our exports and a good twelve of our imports and this balance is slightly over a billion 300 million. Why did I mention that? I mentioned this because Mr Cerar somehow in this ping-pong, particularly with Croatia, does not know what he is saying and who is listening. I'd touch the restructuring. Of course, the budget needs to be read in the light of all these debates we have on the committee, with all these small stories that we are solving or not, as well as a matter that has already been covered in the media by the name of a small tax reform announced by the Ministry of Finance. The speakers in front of me were talking about science. After all, if we want to make some economic breakthrough – and here, although I am a member of the United Left, I agree with New Slovenia – that the actual economy and exports, while living in a society of growth, generate our development. Of course, we absolutely disagree with them as to how the relationship between work and capital is shared. On the revenue side, my colleague Kordiš spoke before me, where we have very clearly presented our proposal for a mini tax reform and how to resolve social transfers with it. Ambassador Desus earlier said, "The surroundings still do not allow excessive consumption." Circumstances never allow for overexpenditure; I hope we are so aware in this House. If I'm going to move on to the resources that I'm a little better at covering. The SMC delegation said, "agricultural activity is improving." Well, please, let's go take a look at the self-sustainment! We don't even know how to plant potatoes anymore! Our self-sustainment with potatoes decreased by half in seven, eight years. Sometimes a person gets the feeling that we live in different universes. There was a lot to talk about and there was a lot to wise up about. I will not be wise about this coalition, what it has to do, what this government does or does not do, but we usually have, at least that is history, in Slovenia, that we can look at those governments that have a full mandate through hockey – you have three thirds. In the first third you get to know each other a little bit, you get to taste, you have to do something in the second third, and in the third third you are a little diagnosing each other because they are already close to the election. In fact, I have to say that even after this first third, which is over, I don't see any story, I don't see any new added value. This little reform of Marble, if I read on the one hand, how will research and development benefits be reduced, at the same time reduce funding in higher education by 30 million – I mean, what are we going to build the economy on? To ignorance? Are we just going to do business, as they say, or what we're going to do? You know, these are some stories. If you are reading an interview, say, by the director of Krka – I was lucky to go to practice there – do you know how much Krka is financed in such activities? It's a good 2 billion in a decade. In short, I know I've been making a lot of trouble in Parliament lately on taxation, but we have some non-intelligent taxation. With this student, I am trying to fill the budget at all, how much of our budget is being filled – and from VAT, which usually hits the most in the pocket, as my colleague Kordiš said, the poorer segments of the population. In the morning we had a debate on thermal water concessions, a matter that should be settled in 2004, 2005. We are now in 2015, and it is likely that if the lobby is strong enough, this will not even be settled in 2016. There was a lot of talk about congregations. For six months, I've literally asked and weighed, I'll just tell the district minister to show me a matrix where we'll see what the mandatory tasks of the congregations are, what laws are based on, how we'll finance them. I haven't seen that matrix. After six months, he once told me to go there alone and put these laws on some portal. Then I wonder if the government, if the ministry even has such a matrix and is doing some kind of fine optimisation. A colleague from Haloz was talking about Haloz, and I could talk about Maribor. I can tell you that Maribor is urban Halose. The last thing I'm going to ask the secretary of the department on Tuesday is 15 surgeries. Throughout this entire mandate, I tend to find it difficult for the Ministry of Field Affairs to increase this distinction in Slovenia to Slovenia in the first, second and third levels – I do not see in this budget that this will improve. We're talking about the wooden chain, we're talking about tourism, we're talking about tourism, we're talking about a previous meeting or we're talking about a previous meeting, we're talking about a previous economy minister asking about Pohorje, and somehow the answer was that the government was not going to do anything about it. Our Maribor mayor is probably worth not saying anything, but you know that somehow the prime minister doesn't come to the second largest city, he doesn't meet with the local authorities, he's also kind of a story for himself that tells us a lot. How are we going to run tourism? Okay, with this item, we're going to do a little more advertising and then they're going to do what? Tourists come to Maribor, come up to Pohorje and watch closed hotels or what? Good, because maybe it's someone who can also pack this marketing package successfully. In the United Left, we've proposed a whole series of real amendments that you're about to run over. Some of the other opposition colleagues spoke about some of the areas of concern. There's, like, monitoring water. We had some meetings about this. People working on this have made it very clear that if we're running out of data for six months, we're gonna lose our timeline for two years. As these items are in the budget for the next two years, we will probably lose for six years or maybe for a decade. We passed a law that would make a little more order in the area covered by the Labour Inspectorate. At that time, I somehow provoked you so much that you accepted that amendment from one year to three years for the greatest, domestically speaking, thief. The number of people working at the inspectorate has decreased from 88 to 80, and this is the area that deals with about 40. In short, what helps us if we do not have people watching over not to exploit workers? I know cases in Maribor, when basically they are cleaning up the statistics of the unemployed in a way that some agencies send them to work abroad, even though they know they are very poor payers. There were young researchers mentioned here. I could have mentioned a doctor's degree. Are there gonna be doctorates working just people from rich families or what? In short, the whole series of stories I mentioned could be even longer, but I'll leave some time for my remaining comrades and comrades, and that's not a debate for me. You know, in some serious parliament, the whole government sits and answers all day, and here Mrs. Vraničarova – obedient, there is no water for anyone to bring – and the rest of the day has to hang here and the others are getting out. I'm sorry, it's kind of, I'll say, almost a waste of time. But if we were to tax stupidity, we'd win. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u86	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, get Mr. Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u87	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The budget document has always been the government's mirror and, above all, the road map that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can expect, what the economy can expect, what the public administration can expect, the fact that the government will lead this country for the next two years. Unfortunately, from this budget, which was submitted to the National Assembly, prepared by the Government of Mira Cerar, together with the Social Democrats and Desus, I would say, quite a great optimism for 2016 and we cannot see for 2017. It is a fact that all the Committees of the National Assembly, and not later on, have had a number of discussions on the subject, both on the home labour body and on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The fact is that the opposition Members have repeatedly pointed out the shortcomings of these documents, but unfortunately this coalition voting machine SMC, Desus and SD did not take into account any of the comments made by the opposition Members. The fact is that the opposition has proposed a series of correct concrete amendments. It was not some kind of mockery or anything, but unfortunately, the coalition and the ministers have already decided in advance: we will not support any amendment proposed by the opposition. I'm sorry. We have repeatedly listened on your part to how constructive cooperation is needed, both government and opposition, but when this cooperation should come, not least this government of Mira Cerar, together with the SD and Desus coalition, turns its back 100 percent. Lock yourself in one room, decide how you go, come to the National Assembly and vote. One and a half years you've been in government, and this policy has now become a practice. Last but not least, we have heard many times, we have two faces of the Prime Minister, Mr Mir Cerar – Miro Cerar before the elections and Miro Cerar after the elections. With regard to this budget alone, I would say, personally, one big disappointment, because it is clear from this document that this government of Mira Cerar and the SD and Desus coalition will continue the debt policy and the policy of additional burdening the economy and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, you have decided that the consolidation of public finances will work on these three segments, namely the additional debt segment, the additional tax burden segment and the additional burden segment, which will be felt mainly by the economy and citizens and by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, I miss one issue, namely the courage of this government and this coalition, because the fact is that the macroeconomic indicators for 2016 and 2017 are significantly more positive, significantly more optimistic than they were in the preparation of the budgets of the last two, three governments that the Republic of Slovenia had. Above all, I miss this matter here so that you couldn't take advantage of these positive indicators more courageously. Which way? In particular, in order to provide for more revenue in this budget and to be able to divide these expenditure into public education, public health. Madam Secretary-General, I don't understand, but not just you, because I don't think you have a lot of say here that this is about the agreement of the ministers and the President of the Government, and especially the Minister of Finance, that you have resubmitted to the unions on the one hand, and on the other hand you can't take care of the economy. Above all, the economy is one that is full of budget and, without income, we cannot have some strong social policy. Under your tactics, then you build this strong social policy primarily on debt and on the burdens of the economy. I am sure that such a policy does not have any future and neither does Slovenia lead or lead in the right direction. The fact is, you don't know how to collect those taxes that lie on the ground or that should be paid. I'm talking about 1.4 billion unpaid tax contributions, taxes. Here it seems to me that not the previous, not the current government can find a solution to how it would be more effective in collecting this matter. Don't say these numbers have dropped. Come to the National Assembly and tell us when this number will fall below 1 billion, not that it has decreased by 1.4 billion euros of unpaid taxes, that this figure may be reduced by 10 million or 4 million euros. Come to the National Assembly, when we say, look, this number is no longer 1 billion, or 100 million, or 200 million. The only measure introduced in the collection of these taxes was the Government of Janez Janša, which has established that they must be publicly disclosed taxpayers. Even then, some parties to the current coalition did not support this proposal. This seems to me like a potential that should be more optimized, more exploited. It is also a fact that everything points out that higher levels of value added tax will be obtained as a permanent law and this is another increase in taxes by the Government of Mir Cerar and the Desus and SD coalition. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has repeatedly said that if you do not increase this tax, why should a new law be adopted? And a well-respected coalition, especially more courage, could do to relieve a particular business environment in Slovenia; on the one hand, we listen to representatives of the United Left explaining how capital is too burdened, how to further tighten these conditions, and on the other hand, at least from the media we can understand that most multinationals in Slovenia are withdrawing, withdrawing to neighbouring cities, withdrawing to Zagreb, withdrawing to Budapest, withdrawing to Belgrade, withdrawing from Bratislava for all of us known reasons, because this government, the former government, cannot change or improve the business environment. The last example of Hewlett Packard's move is quite clear that we do not list all multinationals who move from Slovenia to neighbouring cities and thus lose well-paid jobs, but above all it is necessary to say that these multinationals will now pay taxes in other countries and finance public education, public health of other countries. Another matter that seems very important to me is that, despite repeated warnings from opposition Members and Members of Parliament, this government does not know how to make a competitive excise policy. In particular, in view of the more optimistic macroeconomic forecasts, I expected the Government to do something in this direction. Unfortunately, however, there is no improvement in this direction. The fact is, oil derivatives are too expensive in Slovenia and we don't know how to pick up what we could. Just a few years ago, we were able to build part of tourism in Slovenia on the basis of the prices of oil derivatives. I'd say you don't realize that despite repeated warnings. Today we are the fact that both the price of petrol and the price of diesel in the neighbouring state of Austria at a litre is cheaper than about 20 cents, and today those who have this option on this border band are walking and pumping oil derivatives in the neighbouring country. However, it should also be borne in mind that this fills the Austrian budget, either the Hungarian budget or the Croatian budget, and thus finance public education, public health care of neighbouring countries, rather than financing domestic ones. Here I find a big mistake that you are making, but no warnings, no suggestions from the opposition Members and Members of the current government and the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus do not take into account. The question I would ask you, Madam Secretary of State, and I expect an answer, I know that you cannot with some specific figures on the revenue side – the withdrawal of the country from the economy. I think there was little debate on this issue on the Committees, but the strategy for managing state property is adopted. I would like to know: How much investment is the country planning to put on the sales page in 2016 and 2017? I wonder: Will any of these investments be an investment that is listed on the stock market? The second part that is also related to this budget, which would raise a question for you and I expect your answer, is that we all know that the shareholders and creditors of the banks have filed an action and, I would say, compensation for the contrary to the directive adopted in the National Assembly concerning the deletion of small shareholders of the New Bank of Maribor and other banks and creditors of the deletion of subordinated bonds. I would like to ask: Are any reserves for 2016 and 2017 taken into account in this budget? Because I'm sure the Constitutional Court will have made a decision by then. And in the event that the Constitutional Court gives the right to delete small shareholders and delete the holders of subordinated bonds: Are you able to provide these compensations and are these compensations already taken into account possible in these budgetary documents for 2016 and 2017? Personally, it would be surprising if this decision were to go in any other direction, but we all know here that already those basic claims, the basic deletion, are likely to exceed a billion euros. I think that enough has been said in this introductory part, I will not repeat the words spoken by the former Prime Minister and also by a member of this Parliament, two years lost. I think this is where the matter goes down, and I miss this government in particular, this coalition with more courage. Environment and macroeconomic data, including projections for the future, are significantly more favourable to you, significantly more optimistic than previous governments have. It is not clear from this document that even with this coalition, Mira Cerar’s government would be optimistic. I have a feeling that you've decided that you're not going to do very big reforms, very big stories. You have sat down, let go of the wind coming from Western Europe and from the exports generated by Slovenian economies, and you will be left to it. However, see, the latest events in Paris and the general situation can very quickly turn positive trends down. First of all, what scenarios do you expect in these matters? We have a major problem in Slovenia with a migrant policy that is emptying on a large Slovenian budget. This matter can be further exacerbated, this matter can be further increased, and I am sure that these numbers, which are listed to resolve this policy, and the actual fixed costs that we will have with this, are not real, but are undervalued. On the other hand, we miss the fact that this government, according to the items we have for the police area, for the military area, for the area of civil protection, is somehow neglecting the one of the most important items at the moment – the security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Here there have been repeated warnings by Members and Members, but again, as with all other amendments, you have decided not to support any amendments proposed by the opposition parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u88	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I am convinced that we have a significantly greater potential in Slovenia than is currently recorded in the 2016 and 2017 budget, especially if we rely on the fact that we have recapitalised banks and that, on all the criteria applicable within the banking system, these are significantly pre-capitalised; we also have the most recapitalised banks within the euro area. On the other hand, we can track down the material that he has prepared and will be presented by the economist, Mr Bole, at the business conference in Portorož, the situation that, in fact, loans in Slovenia fall more cumulatively this year than before the start of the financial crisis. These two data certainly do not go together and this is one of those data where I rightly claim that we have a significantly greater potential in Slovenia than is currently recorded in the budget. At the same time, it must be said that corporate deposits and also deposits of the population are actually increasing in banks. So, in addition to the recapitalisation that has taken place from the budget and for which we have committed ourselves, corporate deposits and deposits are also growing. If we do not make this breakthrough and, however, release this potential, which is in banks, so that we can raise economic growth – the fact is that almost 26% of Slovenian companies have problems with access to funding sources, this is a very high percentage, which says that the potential in companies is to look for resources, but our banks do not. In fact, there is a similar situation with the inhabitants. I am convinced that, given that we have twice as many people in debt as the population on average in other Eurogroup countries, we also have an extraordinary potential, because this care in Slovenia, if banks can also provide favourable credits, will reflect that they will try to invest primarily in improving housing conditions, helping young people to obtain housing or themselves or, of course, also with parents. In short, this potential is also remarkable in the population, but we do not take advantage of it. Thus, at some point, the question arises why we do not actually release this potential, which is inadequately higher in Slovenia than in other countries, and in this budget we have considerable obligations due to the payment of the credits paid. If, of course, there is no economic growth, so much less can we repay these loans. Slovenia now has one of the highest economic growth within the Eurogroup, but with the potential that I have mentioned, this economic growth could be, and thus gross domestic product could possibly be even higher once than it is now. This potential would certainly be well-known in the deleveraging of the budget, as well as in improving the standards and conditions for the work of the economy and the standard for human beings. In this budget, we are also looking at an important potential, which we are talking about very much, which is a wood-processing industry, the direction that some 50 million euros will be allocated to the wood-processing industry. But if we actually assess it, almost 20, 25 years have not been invested in this sector, and that's why this woodworking network has actually fallen apart and that's why more than 50 million should be invested. In my opinion, it would certainly be possible to invest at least 100 million euros in the timber chain and thus, of course, take advantage of this potential, which we also have in nature. So if we do not exploit the potential of the economy, people and what we have in nature, then the budget is more modest and I say that this budget is also more modest. The fact is, of course, that we are firmly committed to these standards and rules that we adopt or are determined within the Eurogroup or with the European Commission. Last but not least, the fiscal rule has been enshrined in the Constitution, and the Minister of Finance himself said that it can be expected in the next five years to balance our expenditure or indebtedness to Slovenia in accordance with this fiscal rule. However, if we estimate that if we do not invest in the economy, if we do not allow people to invest, then what helps us to balance public finances, if we are in fact poor. So how are we going to solve problems when we're poorer because we haven't invested now that it's actually possible to invest, and when we're looking at the availability of resources in foreign markets, the situation is very favourable. If I also touch on a particular case in the field of economy, which has great potential for the entire economy in Slovenia and thus for job creation, if I touch on the study made in 2005 by Dr. Marble, the current finance minister, and economist Mr. Bole, it is clear that from every million tonnes of overworked goods in the port of Luka Koper in the Slovenian economy are dependent on 450 jobs. So, Luka Koper is one of those unused potentials that we have in Slovenia because of our geostrategic position, but it does not allow Luka Koper to exert her potential. And on the fact that 450 jobs depend on every million processed goods, and if we know that today Luka Koper is loading 18.9 million tonnes of cargo, it is 8 000 505 jobs, which is at this moment depending on what kind of transhipment will be in the future and, of course, whether or not we will even increase the dependency of jobs on transhipped goods. The potential for Luke Koper is up to 35 million tons. If we look at the data that the port activity itself generates EUR 200 million of added value, then each euro of revenue in port activities generates an additional EUR 1.12 of added knowledge and employs 1.6 more people. So, concrete investment in Luka Koper means that employment across Slovenia will start to be resolved even faster, and every euro that happens in this infrastructure of strategic importance is a great added value. If, even after studies, as well as economists related to Luka Koper, I say that every million tonnes of transhipment in Luka Koper directly and indirectly generates almost 78 million euro of services and goods throughout the economy, then we get a sense of how great the potential is. But I will tell you from Mr Bolet and Mr Jeret's 2014 study – that is, everything I have presented is based on the data produced by economists. So this potential is actually very untapped; in short, it is somewhat unreasonable that even during this period when we are talking about drawing on European funds, we do not listen to Luka Koper and, let's say, out of the 159.7 million Euros that Slovenia has in the cohesion envelope, there is not a million planned at this point or less for the infrastructure that Porta Koper needs in order to ensure its growth. What they expect is that of these € 159.7 million, at least €6 million could be built more quickly and efficiently in pool 3 for the transfer of cars and a new walk with track capacity, which is estimated to be co-financing there between €5 million and €6 million. So, a very concrete project, which can certainly also be implemented because licences are practically obtained, is whether Luka Koper will support these efforts to obtain these European funds or not. On the other hand, it is not the money of the budget; therefore, the budget itself does not contribute to this, it is the resources of Luke Kopa and the European funds that they can then acquire. I am sure that these are very important challenges for the period 2016-2017 and, of course, for the future, which are still untapped, so I am talking about that this potential is significantly greater in Slovenia than we can see right now and it is written in this budget. If I add to this the following fact that we have also recently held an extremely extensive debate in the National Assembly on the construction of a second track, then this is the next project, which we can talk about again, that is an extraordinary potential, because all the cargo of course created by Luka is in place if we bring it to the economy. And the point of saturation of the existing Koper-Divača line, according to freight growth in Luka Koper, is expected as early as 2018. So before the door, that's the point where we're going to have a very big logistical problem, or we're going to be able to reload and bring this load to the economy in time. How important is the time in the economy today, but I think we are all aware, because it is simply not possible to afford delays, because this makes you an uncompetitive, unrestrained partner, and Slovenia is certainly not a country that can be unserious in this area because it has a really strong potential. Well, this second track has the paperwork. We obtain a building permit so that everything will be prepared already this year practically for the investment to begin. When we look at the thinking that this investment should be carried out with a public-private partnership, we can see that even if we go into this form of funding, it will not go without 80%, 90% of the country's investment, because infrastructure does not return that added value to the private investor that is expected when it decides to invest. So why insist on a public-private partnership if it doesn't work without public funds anyway? On the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce has already drawn up a concrete proposal or Transport Section, which, last but not least, can be found on the Transport Section's website, where they are proposing an immediate international call for the construction of a second track, which will, of course, give both the final value of this investment and the funding sources. So, the economy offers us a solution, and why not just summarize this solution and still close this debate and give one very positive and clear signal that we are aware of our potential in Slovenia and that we can realize it in a very short time? Great potential and a lot of interest and this time dynamic is this moment extremely important, also indicating that Mercedes has decided for Luka Koper. So, the distribution of Mercedes vehicles will go through Luka Koper, and it means that we also have a very high degree of confidence in the extremely demanding automotive industry as to the ability to transport through Luka Koper. It would be really unacceptable for us to then happen, because we are talking too long or we are looking for a private partner, so that, say, the second track does not apply at the moment when this critical point that I mentioned earlier will actually be reached in 2018. So this potential we have is certainly very great in Luka Koper and in Slovenian railways. See, Slovenian railways are also crucial if they are competitive, and more cargo than they go through Luka Koper, Slovenian railways are certainly one of the operators who will certainly be able to transport most of this load, means that it will also be extremely cheap and will help in developing also all other regions where they take the railways. This competitiveness is then extremely important for the entire potential in remote areas as well. What is missing from this budget is, of course, not taking advantage of all these options that we have through recapitalised, pre-capitalised banks and the lack of interest in financing the economy, there is not enough resources to stimulate the economy and employment faster in the areas defined in Slovenia as problem areas due to the high level of unemployment. These are areas where the economy has already been very developed and has provided a very large number of jobs, because of the financial crisis they have become less competitive and, of course, this potential has decreased significantly. So, also indirectly with the development of Port Koper, Slovenian Railways or the construction of a second track, we help such areas to make life easier, because transport costs are lower due to the high profitability of this main cargo in the Baltic Corridor and, lastly, in the Mediterranean corridor, which is in fact the main port represented by Luka Koper. Maybe just that information that I forgot to mention earlier, Luca Koper's already got more car shipments than the harbor in Barcelona right now. So, very encouraging, very optimistic data and if I add to this, let's say that in these regions, which I mentioned earlier, so for the problem areas with a high level of unemployment, here we have mainly Maribor as that, including Prekmurje, also Pokoplje, which consists of Kočevska and Bela Krajina, certainly a great economic potential. I think we are all aware of how great the economic potential was once in Maribor, how great it was in Kočevska, how great it was in the White landscape and also in other areas that have been treated as problem areas due to the current high unemployment rate. Of course, I also welcome this budget in the sense that at least that minimum share has come into the budget which is needed to extend the railway line too, so this is a nomadic road, and in 2016 I hope that it will end, even though the funds are planned in 2016 and 2017, but above all in 2016 it is important to carry out work that is important for freight transport. Passengers, of course, can then, if we have waited for so many years, wait for another year or start in 2017. Thus, of course, the budget offers a hand – this moment that is being submitted – for development, but this development could be significantly stronger if all of this potential, which I have mentioned, is being put into motion and we do not work these problems to move the economic crisis forward for the next five years, I don't know, and so on, when everyone else can forget about the economic crisis, we will still be dealing with it because we have adopted a fiscal rule that is more important to us than, let's say, economic growth, with which we can also cover all the credit obligations that we have been hired, without having to adopt any fiscal rules. Perhaps the question is, I don't know whether the Minister of Finance will join us any further or not, but I would also have a concrete question for him: How does he actually view the second-rate financing model, and is there really so much art in Slovenia that we do not get approval from the Government for a decision for an international invitation to tender on the basis of which we would get the value of investment and funding resources? This would certainly be one of those points that would build on the debate that was held in the National Assembly and practically all the members of the National Assembly support the construction of the second track because they are aware of the importance of this investment in the development of the economy as well as of Slovenia. Not only will I talk about the economy and those areas that are truly in need of assistance, there is also great potential in the development of tourism by opening up a passenger terminal in Luka Koper. The fact is that at this moment we have very large ships with many passengers coming to us, but they are practically very short in Slovenia. We are very much discussing Lipica, we do not know how to fill those hotels, we also have very great potential in Gorenjska. Anyone who comes to Slovenia and gives him one good support and presentation of Slovenia, so diverse a country in such a small space you don't actually meet anywhere in the world. This contribution to the passenger terminal is certainly one of those investments that is very short-lived, and tourism is already bringing Slovenia around 12% of gross domestic product, and why not also try to upgrade this potential by bringing more people to Slovenia on this maritime route and then scattering these passengers all over Slovenia and allowing them a wonderful experience. The passenger terminal is also not worth much, two to three million Euros of co-financing would, for example, be enough from this envelope, which is also intended in Europe to build so-called motorways of the sea. I think that with these few suggestions I have made, it will be much easier for us in 2016 and 2017 and, of course, beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u90	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Madam Secretary of State, please be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Today we are discussing budgets for 2016 and 2017. These are key, if there is no emergency situation, the most important acts adopted in the National Assembly. And it has always been this way and it will always be that needs, desires, even appetites, if you want, are absolutely greater than the actual financial capacity in the budget itself. It is also important to know, however, that, with the recently adopted Fiscal Rule Act, we have in some way further limited the medium-term needs that individual departments would have in addition to the implementation of their programmes. Why do I think the budget is such a big deal? If he insists that every love goes through his stomach, he certainly also holds that every programme goes more or less ambitious – of course, I say that the government's programme is ambitious in contrast to some in the opposition – dependent and goes through available budget resources over a period of time. What are the main objectives of the 2016 and 2017 budgets? I'm sure it's a fiscal consolidation in our country. As two, certainly promoting economic growth and as three sure implementations, realisation in the social state, which, last but not least, is enshrined in the highest act of this country, this is in our constitution. Of course, to achieve these goals, it is necessary to have a vision, to have ideas, especially that courage, that courage, that courage, that of course, to put these things into practice. I agree with all of you who have previously said that we must first create and only continue to share. But not separately, one without the other. On the one hand, the budget collects revenue and, on the other hand, allocates resources to those most in need. I'm gonna stop here. For the first time, I'm gonna stop in the social field. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Labour has achieved in some way, but in fact a 65 million-million increase in budget resources, compared with the estimated realisation this year in 2016. It is particularly encouraging that, in the field of active employment policy, concretely on employment incentives, there is an increase of €38 million in these funds. I am also pleased that, in general, in the field of labour market and working conditions, there is not a decline, but a slight gain or a few million more in this area. This is also true for state scholarships, where it would particularly highlight state scholarships and scholarships for talented and sustainable development awards, which have – compared to 2016 – a draft budget, and a realistically further assessment of this year’s implementation – an increase of 31.8 million. There is also no decline in social security, in the social sphere, no decline or decline in resources in family policy as well, and somehow in the subconscious, I would like to see that less resources are needed for the social sector, because this would mean that there are no social threats; unfortunately, we can see through various analyses, through various results, that unfortunately, the number of poor or those at or even below the border of social exclusion is increasing. I believe that the period of implementation of the next two budgets will be the turning point when this will no longer be the case and positive trends will also start to emerge in this area. I must say that I sincerely regret that there was no agreement between the representatives of the government, specifically the finance ministry, and representatives of the local communities that no agreement had been reached, which would in some way mean to the municipalities – I am sure that there was not sustainable, in terms of rationality and prudence – sustainable financing and, as it is said, this agreement was not. If you were an insatiable optimist, you might say, but maybe something will move just before you grow older. I am pleased that an agreement has been reached between the government and the representatives of trade unions in the public sector, an agreement reached which means that the negotiators have reached that compromise solution and have thus brought the ark into safe water. I am pleased, too, not if, but when – and I believe that in the shortest possible time – the so-called REC, the reserve demographic fund, which will mean the long-term sustainability of public finances in general, in particular the cashew PPIZ, i.e. the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and at the same time represent such pensions that people earn after 30-, 35-, 40- and multi-year work, insurance and payment of contributions, of course. Maybe a sentence or two on income policy, fiscal policy if you want. We are pleased that we have achieved the goal of keeping the budgets for 2016 and 2017 so-called or fourth income class, and this will, of course, remain, because it is fair and in this given situation must be as long as there are no optimal changes in the field of tax or fiscal policy, which will be, and I must make this clear and explicit here, which will – for the change – protect work and not capital. Of course, we are also promising much from the operation of SDH or from the adopted strategy. We promise this – not to, we expect this – that SDH will not just be for sale, not to say sale, but it will be for the sale of that part of the property that we have decided to sell it for the best, the highest, the best price, taking into account the strategic interests of the country, and in particular not to affect a number of jobs that could happen through reckless moves. We also believe and believe that SDH will also lead such a dividend policy, which will be created in the interests of public finances, especially citizens and citizens who are once socially, today by the state. On conclusion. Of course, in the part given in the social field, i.e. on the expenditure side; I am sure that with the measures being planned and which somehow have their basis, we will have our platform in both of these budgets, which we are talking about today, to protect those target groups that are most at risk. Here, unfortunately, I have to find out that there are also pensioners among them. They paid the highest price in all transition and post-transition, if I may say so, among all categories of residents. Finally, after a long period of time, we will take a step forward, a leap in coordination or valorisation of a pension that will not be large and will not be high. Unfortunately, such a formula is a legal basis, but it will mean a halt to the trend of a real decline in the value of pensions and a black one for a few euros or some 10 euros per year, it will mean that these pensions will maintain real value and we expect that this real value will also rise. Of course, we expect to expand the amount of the regression and the extent of the pensioners who will be entitled to this regression. In the following words, one day there will be some questions about the formula for the calculation of the pension. As it is said, the reserve demographic fund is at the door, it will come to life, and if we want to have a reserve demographic fund, which will be at the rate of a person's pension and will carry out its task of sustainability of the pension fund as it must, we must take it seriously and thoroughly. We also expect that in the coming year it will live or be drawn up and cross-cuttingly coordinated – I also think cross-cutting among all stakeholders – including the Long-Term Care Act, which we have been talking about for years and years. For summaries; with the budget is not, I believe, no one is entirely satisfied; if I talk here about ministers, if I talk here about Members, I can probably also talk about all the people of this country, but at the same time I think that no one is completely dissatisfied. This means that it has been adopted, or will be adopted, when we vote on both budgets, the compromise solution that will allow such a policy of this country, which will be considered to be a summary of the objectives that we have set ourselves both in the coalition treaty and which we have promised the electorate and the electorate before these elections. Despite the encouraging forecast, although shy, it reduces the number of unemployed slightly, while macroeconomic forecasts are relative – I speak relatively – favourably, but there is a need for effort and rationality in the implementation, in the implementation of the budget itself and the objectives set, if we want: first, economic success; second, social justice; and third, regionally balanced Slovenia. We believe that this will happen in Desus and I, so our support for both budgets is indisputable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u92	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to focus on a few key points from the debate so far, first of all on revenue. One of the fundamental principles of budgetary planning is that revenue needs to be planned realistically but conservatively. We have also followed this principle under the Fiscal Rule Act in the preparation of these two budgets. We have come from macroeconomic indicators, as assessed by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, taking into account that most of the gross domestic product growth is driven by export growth and less domestic consumption growth. However, depending on GDP growth on export growth, GDP growth generates lower income growth than expected at first. Nevertheless, we plan both for 2016 and for 2017 in the field of tax revenue, which is the subject of what I have said at the moment, 2.7% growth for 2016 and 2.8% growth for 2017. He also talked a lot about excise duties and value added taxes in the introduction, so I wouldn't really repeat it. However, it should be borne in mind that retail prices of motor fuels not only generate excise duties, although it should be said that they represent an important component of the price, but also other duties are important, such as CO2 duties imposed on propulsion fuels in 2012. The value added tax is maintained at the current level and at the same time we keep all the reduced value added tax rates currently in force. Therefore, the scope of application of the lower value added tax rate in Slovenia is one of the broadest possible according to European rules. With regard to European revenue, let me repeat my information from the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy; in 2016, we are planning 112.4 million revenue from the old financial perspective; this is the end of work this year, and these revenues are real. At the expense of the new financial perspective, we expect revenue of 438.7 million and additional funds for expenditure in the B balance sheet; in the area of agricultural policy, we expect EUR 312.6 million and other €63.9 million. This totals 927.6 million revenue in 2016 from the European Funds. These figures do not yet include the €73 million of revenue that we are looking forward to managing the costs of the financial crisis. However, this year we planned revenue of 1 billion and 72 million, which means that we are not planning higher revenues from European funds in the coming year than in 2015. With regard to individual types of expenditure, I should start by not continuing measures that limit public spending even in 2016 and 2017, the expenditure of the state budget should be increased by more than EUR 700 million. In fact, the draft budget means that we keep spending about EUR 220 million less than Pardon, which is what I mentioned. [[…]] Expenditure is essentially 400 million lower than in 2015. When we look at the individual elements of expenditure; in the area of wages or labour costs in the public sector, agreement with trade unions means more than €28 million than originally planned in the state budget. The total increase in this expenditure is 148 million, but if no agreement had been reached, this would have been an increase of 442 million. I speak for the whole public sector, about 60% of this figure is out of state budget. In the area of social measures, measures are provided for around 130 million, which continue restrictive measures or allow the progressive release of existing restrictive measures. In other countries, too, when they came out of the crisis, they did not ensure that all the pre-crisis rights were remunerated immediately, but that the release was gradually agreed in accordance with public funding options. With regard to the expenditure for the municipalities, let me reiterate that the average provides for the extent of the revenue allocated to the municipalities for the purpose of covering the legal obligations. So we're not talking about investments, but we're talking about legal obligations or, say, general obligations. In order to finance this, 54% of income is allocated to municipalities, amounting to a billion and 18 million Pardons last year, a billion and 18 million in this year, a billion and 40 million in the next year, and another billion and 85 million in the next year. [[...]] If these funds are not sufficient, a financial settlement is added: in this year's year of poor 60 million, we planned a good 35 million, 35 million and a half for next year. Taking into account the revenue belonging to the municipalities and these financial compensatory measures, billions and €75.6 million have been provided to the municipalities for 2016. For 2015, municipalities have funds of 1 billion and 77 million, a poor million and a half more than for 2016. In 2017, we did not foresee financial compensation, not because it would make the financial situation of the municipalities worse, but because the 54% share of the income belonging to the municipalities in 2017 means that the municipalities are provided with billions and 85 million euro. We opposed the municipalities by lowering the costs of their work, already mentioned, by the end of the year to provide an additional 20 million savings to the 5 million savings already made, while requiring municipalities to provide an average of EUR 536, means that the municipalities should be provided with a billion 105 million funds. In other words, for about 30 million people, savings should be found in other departments, or they should limit their second spending. The Government considered that such a requirement was not feasible in order to provide such additional funding to municipalities under certain normal balanced conditions. Today, it has offered an average of €525, which means an additional €6 million in average or total funds would then amount to €1 billion and €81 million, but, as it is said, the municipalities have rejected such a proposal. Nevertheless, we will continue to take measures to reduce the costs of municipalities. In the law on the implementation of budgets, we have also proposed some other solutions that facilitate the situation of the municipalities, but relate to the investment part, but more about this in the debate on the law on the implementation of the budget. As regards the migration problem, let me reiterate that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has already provided an additional EUR 30 million for 2016 and 2017 in the basic draft budget with the aim of increasing security for Slovenian citizens and citizens and for property in the Slovenia area. In addition, as already mentioned in the introduction, an additional €123 million has been provided to manage the costs of the migration crisis, with most of these costs being the costs of so-called transit asylums, a pardon for transit migrants. The question was raised with regard to cost planning for asylum seekers, so those who would apply for asylum in Slovenia. In principle, these costs are planned by the Ministry of the Interior, which has included in its projections or in its financial plan as many potential asylum seekers in Slovenia as they expect to receive in 2016 and 2017, or as many as will be redeployed to Slovenia. However, if this takeover of asylum seekers into Slovenia needs to be accelerated, the funds provided for the management of the migration problem can also be used for this purpose. In parallel, activities are under way to ensure that the costs of an individual asylum are limited or to ensure that these costs are sustainable. With regard to the costs incurred so far and the assessment of future costs, in our view, these two estimates do not differ or do not conflict with each other, but it is not possible to simply take this assessment for one month 6 and so many million costs and define them in essence as if they are now going to arise throughout the following year. The costs or assumptions on the basis of which we assessed the costs for the following year are based on the assumption that 8 to 9 thousand migrants would enter Slovenia daily. Regarding investment expenditure and transfers: we have already heard a great deal today that trends in this area are largely linked to changes in the area of European resource absorption, but it should be noted that in 2016 we are providing 22 million more resources on integral expenditure for investment and investment transfers and an additional 87 million funds on dedicated items, and these items are also dedicated to investment and investment transfers. With regard to the specific issue of investment or the sale of financial investments to the countries, I should conclude that the annual financial management plan is in preparation. The government has not yet had the opportunity to address it, but it is in the final stage of preparation and will specify exactly what objectives are to be pursued in the next year with regard to the management and also the sale of individual financial investments. However, I can certainly say that the sale process is continuing in those 15 investments in which the National Assembly has already given its consent or adopted a sales decision. With regard to possible compensations to subordinates, we have a special budget item at the Ministry of Finance where we are trying to make a realistic assessment of the necessary resources for the payment of the various compensations in judicial proceedings, but there are still many uncertainties and open questions regarding this particular case. For this reason, we will have to address this issue at a time when the Constitutional Court's judgment is known and when we also see how the Constitutional Court will act if it decrees that the judgment must be applied. With regard to the exploitation of potential or the credit crunch, here I say only that I am in fact, as regards the exploitation of potential or on the basis of which we assessed the revenue of the state budget, I have already explained this. The credit crunch itself must be addressed with other measures and it is not possible to address this problem directly with the budget, but with other activities carried out with the Bank of Slovenia. With regard to the provision of additional funds for Luka Koper, this is a matter within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure. They are the ones that have to determine essentially which are the priority investments to be allocated to them in 2016 and 2017. So much for that. However, with regard to health resources, I would like to ask if my colleague can complete me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u94	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The issue was concerning the 27 million funding of the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for health programmes. These will be the programmes to be implemented in 2016-2020. In fact, the Ministry of Health has managed to agree on spending 26 million 981 000 and a few more euros primarily for preventive projects at the primary level. Then a little less than 2 million for the pilot project to establish single entry points for integrated treatment, early treatment of children with special needs based on the already existing network of development ambulances, the 1.5 million euro circus will go towards raising health literacy, then to prevent the damage and consequences of banned drugs 3 million, something small to describe a healthy lifestyle for Roma, for alcohol-related drinking control programmes 5 million. Of course, the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2016 is not visible; that is, the amendment of the Decision implementing the operational plan for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, where all these projects are covered, was endorsed by the Government in early October 2015. And the funds for these projects, which I have mentioned, are, of course, still planned at the SVRK in 2016 and 2017 and will then be indicated at the Ministry of Health as soon as we receive support decisions for each project from the SVRK. However, the Ministry of Health also negotiates several other cohesion funds, particularly in the area of long-term care and palliative care. The talk and question was also about the implementation of health reform. In view of the fact that a prerequisite for implementing most of these programmes, as stated by me, was adopted by the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2015-2025, means that health reform will be implemented in 2016 and that the eternal financial impact will then be visible in 2017 and also covered by the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nina Pirnat. Anybody else want to discuss this? A replica? Here you go, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u97	Mr President, thank you for the floor. A replica of the implementation of the Treasury Policy by the Secretary of State. I think the answer she gave is to a large extent misleading both the National Assembly and the general public. It noted that the price of petroleum derivatives is not only affected by excise duties, but it is forgotten that all the other taxes involved in the formation of the retail price of petroleum derivatives to be created by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia is the only European country that does not have a free market for oil derivatives. This is seen in competitiveness and today we are actually citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in a subordinate position compared to neighbouring countries where oil derivatives are significantly cheaper. Look, one thing has to be said. Even if the price of oil on the world market was $0, a litre of oil in Slovenia would cost about 80 cents; 80 cents if the price of oil on the world market were 0. These are only taxes imposed by the state. And the distinguished Secretary of State, the retail price of oil derivatives is composed – in addition to the excise duty created by the Government – of the CO2 tax, the energy savings allowance, the contribution to the provision of the production of Slovenian energy and VAT. You raised VAT by 2%. If VAT were reduced, the price of oil derivatives would automatically fall. Last but not least, when you say that you are lowering excise duties; with the start of the mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar, and until today you have raised this to excise duty by about 2 cents. The average price, look, from the Ministry of Economics and Development data I read this data to you when they publish the tables on 14 days. The average excise duty between 2012 and 2011 was around 35 cents. But today it's 041.7. Not to say, however, that the price of oil on the world market was cheaper in 2009 than it is today. At the time, however, the letter of oil was about 80 cents in Slovenia. Then came the government of Borut Pahor, Finance Minister Križanič and others. And you have begun to drastically raise excise duties and add other burdens to the retail price of oil derivatives. If the government wanted to, if the government had an interest, they could lower this retail price on the basis of lowering, I'd say, their supplements, which you're pushing up. Last but not least, why don't you think in this direction that you are freely designing the prices of oil derivatives in Slovenia? All other countries, neighbouring countries, have such free design possible. In doing so, it must be said that the State dictates the margin of sellers here and that this margin is fixed. You're not going to say by chance now that oil merchants are designing a retail price. No, the government did, the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this point? Mr. German, please. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] There's more of you? Then please report. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. I will start with a good evening and continue with the budget. Here were some such statements almost in this sense, which deprive our citizens or this country of the rights that we are supposed to have through this budget The basic direction that we currently have is still the one that we have advocated, only somehow in this first phase, where we are trying to stabilise public finances, which we are doing relatively well. [[…]] We are also talking about maintaining or increasing economic growth, in order to lead somehow to this gap in which we are in a gradual way, because with economic growth we have more available money somehow for the resources, to reduce this rate of indebtedness that we currently have, to bring closer to that fiscal goal that we have also given ourselves by fiscal rule. It is said that until some suspension of indebtedness in relative figures and gradual reduction in absolutes. As far as the effects are concerned, we can also see them through expenditure, interest, because we see around 2014 around a billion 80, 2016 something, say, 10 million less, in 2017 an additional 50 million less to pay interest on the basis that interest on international markets has been reduced and we slowly refinance ourselves. In this way, this money, which will also remain from interest, can be used for other purposes, which is a little awkward at the moment. We are actually pissing thinly, and now, what are the chances or odds of doing this, it is difficult — if we go to look at those comparisons that are being set up repeatedly, that year 2008 that we are not still there to go back and forth. In that year, at least after income, if we go to look, there's about 8.9 billion, if we look at what we're doing now, we're dealing with about 8.7 billion, it's 200 million less. If we go to see how much we've spent on interest. In 2008, some of this was over 300 million euros, as it has been said, over a billion in the present. So we're gonna lose 700 million more there. If we go to see transfers for pensions, given that there is so much less employment and so on, it is now improving, but still the effect of payments to the cash register, from which transfer is needed, so that pensions can be paid in an undisturbed manner. According to 2008, if we compare it to 2016, it is about 200 million euros; it is said that when we ask where the money is or where it went, where it is hidden, why we are saving it, why we are squeezing it, it is still necessary to say that, according to 2008 we have the difference of 100 billion on these three items alone. This has to come from somewhere, from this budget one way or another. Then how long would it take to get out of here? How much is this budget of ours? Surely less than you'd like, because you're designing the budget on the basis of the available resources. We have a relatively large number of past obligations. I'm not saying they're bad, we're finally funding very important things, if we're talking about the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs, if we're talking about health care, if we're talking about education and so on, then somehow everything is still working. While it makes it a little easier for us to now have economic growth and so on, the effects directly on citizens, with the exception of the few who have received additional ones, are the final job, and we promise that soon there will be more of it, it does not yet feel on a single citizen, but it is all about slowly spilling it on them. If not otherwise, those who are in a difficult situation, by increasing social transfers and then also in other areas. If I look a little bit at what's going on, we're actually stopping the train, just like some government has been trying to do before us, so we're trying and working on this train somehow stopping and moving in a different direction. Sometimes it happens to us that in this effort, someone else is sitting up there with us, and they're driving a little bit, but they're trying to keep it as small as possible. As we talk about tax cuts and tax hikes and so on, on the one hand, we have a debate about the need to raise, real social transfers, give more money to education and so on and lower taxes. That's not even mathematical! On the other hand, a little bit more logical, let me raise taxes, let me pay for all of this. All right, we're still what our program was, I'm a little stuck, I almost said the problem, but we're solving it. So, this is our programme, then the direction is that we have to keep the same way, is that when we look at the tax wedge, we try to restructure it in a way that, despite its weight, it works a little bit more stimulating. In this context, we also have some -- I don't know, we have had in this house recently, or we will also be dealing here at this session of the Tax Procedure Act, which provides for certain redundancies, certain new solutions; therefore, as regards advance agreements in the field of transfer prices, which I think is very welcome especially for international companies, even when it comes to the Value Added Tax Act, which provides for simplifications in the import of goods which ultimately bring liquidity, we can say to this, an injection to the economy of just over 30 million euros due to the fact that they will no longer have to charge this VAT. So we move, we want to move faster, but we move on. If we're going to do what I think is important right now. The state machinery will operate on the basis of these two budgets in 2016 and 2017. The funds will be provided at a sufficient level to be able not only to live but also to survive, and in this context certain reforms that have already been implemented will also need to be implemented, but will need to be carried out somewhat more effectively, in order to make some changes, additional free resources, so that these resources can be redistributed and redirected where they are most needed — I don't know, education, health care and so on. As for us, and for me personally, what I think to some extent was a mistake, is one underestimation of two things; one is resistance to reform, and the other is the effort needed for reform. I think we've seen a lot of this before. We can attribute both mistakes to ourselves, but in some relatively short time it will also have to be corrected because there is not only optimism, but also hard work. That's how we're ready for it, and that's what's gonna happen. This is precisely why, let's say, some successes are smaller than you would like them to be; in the area of trade unions, perhaps this agreement could be better, but it is concluded. At the level of municipalities, unfortunately, even after today's media report on the agreement, despite the approximation, unfortunately, it did not come about; it is from that 519 to 525, which was the last offer, still insists on 536, and the fact is that if we want to fight any negative effects – depending on what the judgment will be, it is difficult to prejudge what the Constitutional Court will then decide – that these consequences will also need to be limited through reforms in such a way that the calculation of the possible deficit would not be as great as it would be if there were no change. This is how we give it to ourselves, and we will also actively do it eventually as Members of the SMC, and I think that also the coalition and also the opposition, I think a few interesting suggestions and useful ones have also come to the meetings of the Finance Committee so far, and so on, that something can be done here. But it's true, as I said before, the resistance is great. So when it comes to making changes or reforms, all of them are for, just not to start with me like that normal approach. Perhaps another matter, which has also been exposed today, with regard to this investigative commission and additional funds. As I know, this will be ensured within the framework of the National Assembly, and we will also have a lot of parliamentary groups that have voted on this investigative commission. Thus, we also have some resources that are likely to be made possible, something can be optimized, as everyone in this country had to manage. As I know, the Commission of Inquiry is primarily considering political responsibility and for political responsibility, I think that competence is relatively sufficient, but it is true that for some professional tasks it needs help and without any conversion into children's meals or similar we will have to all the parties in this house involved in it to step up a little together and find some solution to actually be given as much power as we can and even as much as it will actually need to provide this professional assistance, and it will also have to be assessed, saying to what extent this is being resolved here, to what extent it is being resolved at the NPU, how it is being resolved there, how it is being handled in the judiciary and so on, that it will not happen by chance to sustain funding where the actual responsibility is determined, and eventually some of the results in the court. As we have in the National Assembly, at least as history has shown, the results, if I may say so, have often been evasive. Another matter may concern a few congregations. Because I said before, unfortunately, no deal was made. There's interesting numbers there, too. From there, from 2008 to 2014, from 300 million to 730, then many attractions are also linked to the amount of wages available there, and some assets, how and why they are spent. But this is what I think is also the task of this country or government to effectively weigh all these expenses, not least to talk to the municipalities and finally get them on the e-mail. or the central accounting system of this country, in order to be able to monitor everything together, because it is not yet clear to me how it is possible to have such a programme at our disposal, but still certain municipalities decide to have their own system. This is very nice, but your system in large systems can't work, at least for my understanding it's not right, because you lose central control and you lose that moment that allows you to bring about some changes that need to be shared – that is, in all municipalities, not just individual ones, and where problems actually arise. Even such things that sometimes happen to us – it is true that although we are many new here, so am I, but still sometimes I find it quite interesting when someone comes to television, even from the municipalities, and little to say what the state is doing in the area of flood security and why the state does nothing and why the state has allowed construction in certain flood areas. Good. And why did it allow for black construction? Then we see that they have certain — I don't know if you know — kidney names: milk, lake, stream, bow, pond, river, etc. There usually happens a giant, there happens a lake, there happens a desiccating lake, and so on. And what's my point about that? Next. Space acts, where construction is to be done, are to be adopted by the congregations. The State has over, says administrative units and there is a formal procedure to determine whether all conditions are met for construction. Which means that sometimes, when this debate takes place on our side too, it may be necessary to be a little more bold and to look at where the original sins occur in certain things, it is said, on the side of the country, that the way to provide money centrally – at the end of the second year – I think that a complete flood study will be available in March, that is the central system, the central money that regulates flood security in the area of that country, and on the other hand that local aspect needs to be looked at, but what can the municipalities do about it, that it will not be exactly where everyone thinks it can build. Such challenges will certainly not run out. As far as this budget is concerned, as it is set, within these limits or within these limits as it is set, even as I said at the outset, I have somehow given an introduction to where the extra money is hiding; I think what is here on the table, what is being done at a given moment is not yet done to say that we can sit down and that everything is done. Now this work is actually about proper reforms, given that some time of learning that is needed to even know where you need to catch or bite properly is just coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. My friend Christmas gave me a good lead by stopping the train. That's exactly what's going on. You're stopping a train that's started slowly in the last two years, instead of giving it an extra drive with these two budgets, you're stopping it. The results of your work are already shown in the data. If you look at economic growth, quarterly, quarter to quarter, you can see that it is significantly lower than it was last year. Interest rates also began to rise again after the situation in the bad bank and SDH. We were at one percent today at 1.6, so, Mr Christmas, this is exactly what's happening, you're stopping the train, which is slow, but with the measures that have been taken in the last two years and taken by the two transitional governments, you've started going in the right direction, but you've stepped out of the gas, if I may say so, with these two budgets a little bit further. Unfortunately. That is why I have mentioned many times that I am sorry that we have lost two years before us, and even now at this performance I cannot pass. As far as the budget for the reality of planning is concerned, I think we could talk here for a long, long time. Most of the accounts for 2014, which we accepted, you accepted in November 2014 and you made a mistake for more than 350 million euros, stopped the implementation of the budget in September this year, although it was adopted, I think, in March. I will be pleased if this budget is implemented to such an extent in full, without a balance and without further action. And I agree, the budget is kind of a possible sum. I know that the desire and the idea is certainly great, the responsibility for preparation is with the government, the coalition will take responsibility once this budget is confirmed. That is how it is, and I also understand that in some way, even though someone may not fully agree with him, you are defending him from coalition colleagues. But you might as well listen to some little ones and not overestimate the opposition's idea, and I'll go back to the amendments later. I'm already on the board, and I'm here once again, to compliment the government and the union on their success in finding an agreement. It is true that this agreement costs something, but absolutely sentences that would follow the non-contract and in some way forcefully regulate the situation would become substantially more. But at the same time, of course, we must be aware that this arrangement also imposes some new obligations on the municipalities. I'm sorry it didn't come to an agreement today, too. I regret that the congregations were not prepared to step back. If I understand correctly, today the government has put on the table a proposal for an average of €225, and I sincerely hope that you will also support our coalition colleagues with our amendment, which has been introduced into the law on the implementation of the budget on the average, which sets exactly the same average of €225, regardless of the fact that the municipalities have not adopted it. So here he asks on behalf of the congregations to give them what the Government has offered them. I agree, however, that in view of the situation, the congregations should also understand that there is not enough money for the better, and that they would in some way show goodwill. 225 Euros is so much – 525! I apologize,525, that it will not be wrong – as much as it is and 525 is the amount that the congregations had in the first half of 2015 and, if I recall correctly, they agreed. Now all of a sudden it would be 600, and I don't know how many. So think about it, and together let us support this amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget, and let us provide the municipalities with as much as we think they do, regardless of their disagreement with us. I'm gonna touch one more thing, and these are pensions. My colleagues in Desus are beating each other's chests to help the pensioners, to provide additional funds, so please, Secretary of State, if you can serve me with information on how much this raise, which I think the minister mentioned earlier, will increase the average pension. 0.7% I think it's a raise, I can calculate, but I want to hear from the government, how many cents a month does that mean for an individual pensioner. And the amendments we tabled. What I'm trying to say is that all the amendments are together, the opposition, 45. Thus, we were very real, not like in some ancient times when there were hundreds of them; 45 are all together! We have tabled three amendments; two for roads, some more for mediation, because it has to be divided into several courts, and I will now allow myself to explain these few amendments. I'll start mediation. The Minister said that the challenges faced by the Government at the table, when this budget was drawn up, had been tackled by three measures. One is supposed to be, but they're not, we know, investments, the other, a change in the business environment. Justice and the judicial environment are also mentioned here. And the fact that mediation, even in the field of economic crime or problems, is in fact completely removed from the budget seems inappropriate to us because the way in which mediation conflicts can be resolved can be significantly cheaper. This amendment of ours is worth 100,000 euros and we believe that it could make a big difference on the other hand and also speed up the resolution of these conflicts. Then there are two amendments concerning road infrastructure. One of the areas of Prekmurje, €464,000, is the project of the pedestrian corridor and the reconstruction of the road on R1, Petrovci–Martjanci through Cats. In fact, this project should have been implemented at the time of the reconstruction of the Puconci-Hodos railway line, but it had moved. The second project relates to Primorsko, in fact I will say two smaller projects, worth a total of 370 000 euros, two intersections, one is the intersection of Aisevica and one is a montage, circular intersection in Novi Gorica near the hostel Hrast. Three hundred and seventy thousand are worth it together. 934 000 is the value of the amendments that we have tabled in our parliamentary group, 0.01% of the budget, but with absolutely no problem, you are fully voting against the coalition Members. Okay! You have decided so, but not then here in Slovenia to sell to the public how open you are to dialogue, how open you are to ideas, how right it is for the opposition to propose, and you are actually rejecting all these things without reason. I would like to point out that these are small amounts to show that things are feasible. Another amendment from SDS colleagues would like to touch itself, which is an additional 150 000 euros for an investigative commission investigating a bank hole. I mean, here, especially to colleagues at SMC, that your greatest pre-election promise was beyond ethics and morality, which is, unfortunately, gone now, also that you will come to the end of these things. If my colleagues, if my colleague Dobovšek has told me correctly, I believe that somehow everyone in this committee has decided and supported this proposal, I think we should go against them and support all this proposal. I hope that this amendment is not just a problem that has been tabled by another opposition party and not a coalition party. Once again, I want the train you've been stopping to be able to run back at at least the speed it's driven in the last two years. Not because of the government, not because of the government coalition, but because of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'm my respectable colleague Alenka's answer, of course, informally here, on the four-eyes, that the increase in pensions will not be high, because the formula is the same as, we all know it, we know how to valorize pensions. But there will be coordination of pensions after a long time, after long dry years and in Desus, forgive us, we do not knock on our chests at all, but we also take credit for ours or, if you want, especially our thanks, that we are, however, this long-standing downward trend – rather than nominally falling, nominally, the pensions remain the same as they are, and the real fall is yes. Because if the remuneration is not coordinated, it is realistically falling, this is the basic logic in this matter that we have stopped this trend and that next year the pensions will at least be comparable in their purchasing power to those of this year. But that's not our final goal, we're moving on. This must continue, annual coordination, annual recreational supplement or regression as we know it. However, I have already said in my debate earlier, as soon as possible, the formulas for the calculation of the pension will also have to be touched. This is not how we say things here but do things differently, but for those of our priority objectives, and there is no inflation of these priorities. Taking care of the pensioners is Desus' priority objective and Desus' sincere goal. And if we have done something, it will be seen in early February, when this valorisation will actually occur, and we can proudly say that a long, long-standing trend has been halted, which we have failed to stop even when Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek was Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Tillen Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u105	I was a little misunderstood. When I was talking about stopping the train, I was talking about debt, not about stopping economic growth or the development of this country. The fact is, it would probably be a little easier if it weren't for – compared to your numbers – an additional €450 million for interest at the annual level. An additional 3 billion out of guarantees representing additional risk and exposure, which require additional caution when the budget is drawn up. Because the fact is that in our time — not exactly because of our merit and definitely not because of our merit — risks have increased so much that we need to keep them somewhere else and also consider what happens if something happens. But not go on with a smile on your face and with bold plans to change everything, but at the back, say that if it does, it will happen, and then we'll just wrap it up. We can't cover it because we're not only working for ourselves, we're working for this country alone. As far as this understanding is concerned and as I have already said in the introduction, this budget is also going in this direction to try to maintain this economic growth, to maintain the pace of employment, in order to increase under the conditions that are at our disposal, which are not exactly the easiest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Saša Tabakovic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The closure of the state budget is always difficult for the position, but there is always little or much less for the opposition. Because in its criticism, the opposition has boundless possibilities for various verbal acrobatics, which, of course, it can enforce or apply through the submitted, Boyd, only 45 amendments. The fact is that the budget is limited, the budget is not a bag without a bottom. We know that a fiscal rule has been adopted that wants to balance the public financial deficit, so that, of course, within limited financial resources, the most optimal solutions within different sources have to be sought. At this point, I would like to remind you that the fiscal rule in this National Assembly has been confirmed by a constitutional majority, which means that it has not only been confirmed by the coalition, but also by a large part of the opposition, which means that these rules of the game have also been adopted by part of the opposition. I don't think there's a government in the world that doesn't want the prosperity of its citizens, no matter what their political ideology, their belongings, their beliefs. It is, of course, necessary to take into account the fact that, in providing prosperity, it is also budgetaryly responsible or not. This means that our prosperity depends on its budgetary responsibility and that this prosperity does not apply only to 2016, 2017, 2018, but to all future, once in the future, mandates. Because this is what I would call a state-of-the-art moment, which in past budget adoptions has simply diminished in terms of how Slovenia in the past and what it really owed itself to. In my debate, I will mainly touch on the cultural budget, which has already been mentioned indirectly today, but also in the past, it has to a certain extent upset the cultural public in particular. I have looked at these budgetary wishes of the opposition, their amendments, as regards the cultural budget, and they are to some extent understandable. Nevertheless, I think that the issue of these amendments is, above all, a vision of cultural policy, which will have to be allocated within the department in some reasonable way. In this sense, of course, I am talking about a difficult new cultural model, which will certainly be needed as soon as possible and I can say here that the Ministry of Culture has taken a step further. In fact, if we look at the Ministry's items or how the items are distributed within the Ministry of Culture for 2016, 2017, we can see that the Ministry certainly had a hearing for those in the cultural sector or for those in the cultural sector who are somehow the most vulnerable. I therefore think that the financial perspective of the Ministry of Culture in this regard is not as black-sighted as it was intended or that some would like to introduce it. It should be borne in mind that a large number of stakeholders in culture, particularly those who are self-employed, are existentially linked to cultural programmes. In this respect, as far as cultural programmes are concerned, funding from the integrated budget is increasing by a weak 7 million. If we look at cuts or items, we can see that media, audiovisual culture is from 7 million 900 to 8 million 94 thousand, international cooperation in the area of culture from 635 to 766 thousand, publishing from 4 million 599 to 4 million 786 thousand, promotion and development of Slovenian language from 71 thousand to 321 thousand, awards and social rights in the area of culture from 6 million 200 to 6 million almost 800 thousand, art programs, which is very important, from 51 900 to 58 million 356 thousand. Social security must also be stressed here, i.e. social assistance and benefits directly to beneficiaries, particularly self-employed workers, ranging from 590 000 to 640 000. If I look at these items within the Ministry of Culture, we certainly can't talk about some cultural eclipse or cultural ignorance that is supposed to happen with the adoption of the new budget. I think it is right that we are generally very critical, but it is also right that we are very precise when criticising. It is true, however, that resources will be reduced, especially those allocated to infrastructure, i.e. preservation of cultural heritage and archiving activities. It should be stressed here that these areas have in the past been largely linked to European funds. We know that, in view of the European Union's past perspective, where these areas could be financed, unfortunately, in the future, 2014-2020, these items are no longer within the European perspective or are extremely minor. This, of course, is a problem, but, of course, it is illusory to expect an integrated budget to cover in this respect also those funds that have actually been drawn from European funds. What I can say is that, of course, I generally wish that there would be much more resources for culture, of course they will be to me as someone who comes from the field of art – I will always wish or will always think that these resources are still too small and that I will wish that the country would also be listening to the appeal of UNESCO, which through some of its directives recommends what state resources are intended for culture. But if we look realistically at the financial situation and given the allocations within the Ministry of Culture, I can say that I think the budget for culture 2016-2017 is very correct in this respect and I will support it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. It is true that some of us in the opposition have also upheld the fiscal rule. But my colleague, for six months, both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance walked around and convinced us not to ask how it was necessary. Now you're kind of telling us that we voted for the fiscal rule, and oh, now you're poor in the government because you have to respect it. You wrote the law, you did the calculations, and you said it was coming out. I warned you that the problem was, and that we didn't have all the answers, and today it turns out that, unfortunately, I was right at the time. As for the pension – yes, it is, we have calculated [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u110	There's no replica to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u111	We have calculated 3.5 euros to raise the average pension. And another thing, also nominally, some pensions were reduced with the help of Desus in 2012. I'm sorry, but that's right, and my government, which was mentioned earlier, fixed that mistake. I want to raise more money and give the pensioners 10 times that amount.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u112	You can't have a replica, Mr. Urosh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u113	Procedurally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u114	Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u115	I was sure that you would warn your colleague Bratuškov that replicating the replica was not possible. In the first part she replicated a colleague from SMC, in Tabakovic, and in the second part there was clearly a replica of my replica, which is unacceptable under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'd expect you to warn her about that. That's my procedural proposal. I, too, will usurp in the final part of the sentence, but I am extremely pleased that it is practical for all parties, including the group of unrelated Members of the wish, and the will and desire for pensioners to receive 10 times the amount of their current pensions. If it's a sincere wish, not just on the mouth, on the tongue and on the paper, then there's no fear of the pensioners. But Desus will always take good care of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Matjaž the German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good evening, everybody! For the first time, since we have been under the auspices of the fiscal pact and under the framework of the fiscal rule, we have adopted one of the most important acts to be confirmed by the National Assembly, and I will also say this one of the most important acts proposed by the Government, including for some further development of the country, to see which direction we will move and where we will move. I'm going to limit myself to one small part of the government's event. As you know, the Social Democrats are headed by three ministries: defence, which will be extremely burdensome in the coming months, agriculture, work and social. I'll start at the first. In fact, I am pleased that we have, however, stopped this new budget 2016-2017, the downward trend of the Ministry of Defence. It is true, because of exceptional circumstances – and it is also true that we are aware that there are essentially priorities and priorities in a far-reaching situation. That is why I believe – otherwise I would like it not to be, but I believe – that we will have to do more in the near future so that these funds will increase. On the other hand, the Minister of Agriculture – an outstanding promoter of Slovenian food production, with exceptional promotion and an instigator of what the Prime Minister himself mentioned, spoke of natural resources, including forests and timber. We know that much will be discussed in the coming months about how these 20% of the forests owned by the state will be managed in the future. I would like to say that the Prime Minister mentioned that water is also among those natural resources that place us in a priority group of development, as far as this area is concerned, so that this might even become part of the possible placement in the constitution as a right to water written down by the Constitution, given that Slovenia is still full of these and we must be careful about it. What is very important and what I will stress in this work is the work of our Minister for Labour and Social Affairs in these difficult times, in which we – we must talk about the fact that they are past these times – that we have somehow drawn closer to the unemployment line and are moving forward and in the coming months, we hope that there will be no external influences stronger than ourselves so that we can lower or lower this limit below 100,000. With the proposal to amend the Social Security Benefits Act, we raise the amount of minimum income. The results of the ministry's work show that it is obvious that the economy is being robbed at the expense of the social economy, because more than we create jobs, more people are employed and, as a result, this cycle is turning into more consumption. The Labour Market Intervention Act continues the policy of the Ministry for the Activation of Vulnerable Groups of the Population to encourage the employment of long-term unemployed persons over 55 years of age. The dynamics of such measures of the Ministry generate positive effects both in improving the social and economic climate in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it is worth stressing that the ministry has won another 3,000 800 new state scholarships, saying that in addition to the pensioners, the Social Democrats are also looking after the younger ones. What is most important, however, is that you have probably observed that the Social Democrats have prepared a measure of tax change and income, i.e. within seven points, which is the most important message and the continuation of these measures by the Ministry of Labour is that the Government's philosophy must be directed towards strengthening the middle class. I hope that this will also become a paradigm of the government, because, as I said before, when we give people jobs in some way, bread to spend and return them to the economy, we would further accelerate it by strengthening the middle class. These are young families and young people, as well as pensioners. Of course, budgets are sustainable, but they are not presumptuous. I wish we could once set up an act that I could hope to be bold. This is what colleague Weber was talking about when we were talking about the second track, when we were talking about some new investment cycles, when we were talking about the importance of Port Koper for the development of the economy, and so on; even a number of projects where we should set some more concrete goals, because we know that the opposition has repeatedly said that these two years are crucial to see what color or dynamics this government will end up with. There would certainly be more to be done, but under the circumstances I will say this: it is sustainable, but it is not hesitant of this budget; it is not good, but it is acceptable. Of course, our responsibility as coalition Members is, and here we are in a different position than you opposition, when in some way you can state a thousand reasons why this is not good, but it is difficult to give the reasons why this is good, because you are always the one defending this act; and this has happened to you when you were in government, and this has happened all the time because there is a debate that is always going on in this direction. I will certainly support this budget myself, with confidence that the Government will have more concrete cases or proposals for the resolution and promotion of the situations in which we are in, and I hope that the external influences of these days will not affect us in such a way that we will have to talk not about development, but about some measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this general work? I'm asking you to sign up. Okay, so I give Mr. Bell Lah a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. It's nice to hear the coalition Members brag about the budget, how it's good and good, but I don't know if it's the same. It's a simple calculation: if the budget gets 8.6 billion euros, we'll spend 9.4 billion euros, and I don't think it'll just be enough to make more, and we'll get almost half of what's coming into the budget, then I don't know if it's sustainable – how much longer. Maybe next year, but 4 billion on the 30 and how much more, every year we'll get strong over 40 billion debt by the end of your term of office. If the budget were different in order to generate 9.4 billion, it would be 8.6 billion, then it would be kind of sustainable for us to somehow swim over the years. In fact, every new debt also increases interest, which is now at billions, and by the end of your term there will be one billion and a half. The question of how much will we have to add to the pension allowance is now about a billion 700. How much do we give to the social sector, but if we know that there is a shortage of the average of money in these 9.4 billion, except for the increase in public sector wages, for which I generally do not mind, because some deserve a substantial higher salary than they receive, even for responsible places it is difficult to get wages such as those that are able and responsible professionals. In my opinion, however, there are many who work very little or nothing, and they also receive salaries. And it doesn't look like you're going to do anything, or you're not going to do anything this year. If you've reduced your investments by 30%, and there's only so much left to manage these investments or more, I don't know what they're going to do. We have a bunch of institutions that are not needed, that are not in Europe, that others do not know, or that have significantly fewer employees than, say, Bank of Slovenia, administrative units, and I could count a lot more. However, there is a lack of measures to achieve something in the state budget over the years, such as foreign investment. The Minister of Finance himself tells us how spatial legislation is the largest glass for foreign investors. In Slovenia there are at least foreign investors from all European countries. Why? You don't need money to manage this, you need the will and the expertise to make the legislation better, to make it European, to be building permits in months, not in years, because it drives away foreign investors. There's a lot of that legislation. State roads. The Minister of Infrastructure would need at least 200 million more to cover all the gaps on state roads across the way so that they do not collapse faster than they maintain or repair. Let's not talk about congregations. Now you're negotiating, I think it's been a few months for the average and the deal obviously won't happen. The municipalities have an increasing cost, and they have an ever-increasing decrease in income. Already 30 million municipalities are committed to co-financing public economic services to utilities or managers just so that prices do not increase abnormally without exceeding the social sustainability threshold. Many of the things that we have promised Europe or the country has promised must be built — they have stopped, such as the removal and cleaning of wastewater. We have arms to extend. It is likely that only fees will be increased and they will come into the state budget and nothing will be built. Like cream tourism, we transport garbage up and down Slovenia, we have not arranged waste management centres, there will be no more European money, there is no state, there is no municipality. How are we gonna handle this? I have already mentioned spatial legislation; all municipalities should have adopted municipal spatial plans, we are at the end of 2015 and half of the municipalities have not yet adopted spatial acts. Has anyone calculated the damage done in this area? Before that, I listened to my German colleague praise his Minister for Agriculture. The picture is completely different. Why did the farmers go to the street? Why were they alerted to the meeting? Because larger farmers will fail, smaller farmers will stop farming, they cannot fail because they only farm for their souls. The subsidies have been reduced, and there are many more in Haloza, for half with the new agricultural policy. I have listened to the rural development agenda today, and this will solve everything. This rural development programme, as farmers say, is not a COPOP, but a burial for Slovenian farmers. The sales prices of milk decreased at the expense of the Russian embargo and reached the sustainability limit, at their own prices. In the coming years, we can expect a greater impact on price reductions, the abolition of milk quotas. The milk will be too much, we are now exporting it, and by exporting this raw milk we are also exporting subsidies. A lot's wrong. Self-sustainment is declining, not increasing, and we listen to each Committee of Ministers when it reads us various measures and figures from these measures, but it does nothing to help us. With a new financial perspective or with a new agricultural policy, half the farmers have applied for these environmental measures, as has been the case so far. The money's gonna stay. I believe the government can use it anywhere and it won't be too much, but it won't go for the right purpose! Not everything is in the budget, in the means. Here we argue, the government is just looking at how it will spend money when it gathers, but it is doing nothing to bring more money into the budget so that the economy is competitive. Sailing now on the waves of increased exports of our exporters because they are fortunate that external partners have orders where crises have not felt so much. But it's a short-lived age. If we do not make our economy more competitive, it will be nothing in the long term. Why are our companies moving out of our country? Why do foreigners, foreign investors go past us? It's like we don't care how much money we have, and we just have to figure out how to spend it. That's not true! When we talk about how we can increase wages on the one hand, we guarantee, on the other hand, that we have more than 300,000 citizens on the brink of poverty or under the edge of poverty. Why don't you ask the craftsmen, the mechanics, all those who work every day, who have a lot of customers who do services every day, what's the situation there? Do people really have more money or less? And you'll hear what the difference is from a couple of years ago. How many building permits have been issued in administrative units this year or last year compared to years ago? Why don't people build? You've reduced your investment by 30% – and it doesn't matter, we'll save money. Is that true? Are we really going to save? Hitler already knew what needed to be done in the crisis, but he was building infrastructure. Is the second track really pointless? Today we listened to our colleague Vebra, explaining a great deal about how investment in infrastructure was needed. I couldn't agree more! When we gave up the heavy billions for banks, we light-heartedly lit it up in Parliament. However, when it comes to giving 20% or less for some infrastructure, it is difficult. The project should probably be combed a little bit because experts say it is too rich, like TES 6, and built with substantially fewer millions, but it needs to be built if we see the perspective in logistics. If we don't see it, then let's raise our salaries in the public sector and enjoy it! But we won't be able to enjoy it for a long time. Our entrepreneurs are running across the border because they have better conditions. Our young experts go, see perspective only abroad. But we can rejoice and share what we do not have. It won't take long. Once again, it is not just about money, work needs to be seen, reforms, changes, legislation to simplify and make the economy competitive. Only in higher income is the future, not just in spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Lah, Hitler has brought us into World War II and I would not use this perspective at today's meeting of the National Assembly as some kind of a bright goal. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, there must be a lot of arguments about other things and comments, not that in the last debate you remembered that there was something to comment on. That's not your job. You can take the debater's word, you can do anything, but comments are not your job. Leave this to those who are in the hall, or sign up for the word. I would return to this festive introduction of this session when the government was sitting here and the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance spoke to the Members and wished us a successful job and left, and all the government, all the ministers, left with them. If this act, which we have before us, is an act with as much weight as has been said and as you are discussing, then something else should be happening on this government side and it should also be a suitable presence. But apparently this is a procedural act for the government, a protocol act that is binding, in which the government is handcuffed. They put it on the table and then they leave and they'll come back at the end when we vote and they'll make a good photo appointment out front. In its introduction, the President of the Government said that the Government created conditions for the continuation of stimulating economic growth with this budget. If the President of the Government has made an effort to make this statement, then he would expect to give at least three or four points from this budget, which means a continuation of stimulating economic growth. He didn't give one. He did not say a single argument in support of this statement! This year, I asked the government a question on 11 June, which was after that famous statement by the Minister of Finance in Washington at the World Bank meeting, when he praised the excellent results in Slovenia. At that time, I asked the Government: What measures did the Government encourage exports? Secondly: What measures, administrative, tax, spatial, have the Government improved its domestic business environment since September 2014? Unfortunately, there was no answer to the first question, which were the measures by which the Government encouraged exports. Secondly, this is the case with regard to tax, spatial, administrative and other measures, and the Government has written that this was the introduction of the bound book of accounts, the regulation of electronic service of tax documents and the transposition of VAT directives. This was the answer to this question. You have him seduced in the archives of the National Assembly, you can look at him. On 20 August, I put a supplementary question to the Government on clarifying these circumstances and measures to further explain this to the Government. I got a list, this was sent on September 10th, a whole series of open calls. So, the measures that were in the tendering phase, it seems, were something that could not yet come. Which means that in this year, and also in this upcoming speech by the President of the Government, the Government has praised the actions taken once in the past, which have had an impact in the current business year, and probably those still in force and who have been uncomfortable will have an impact even in the coming years. It is the so-called ZUJF and some other measures. Given that the President of the Government, in his address, praised the fact that some bottlenecks on partially closed bridges will be eliminated during major investments, it means that there is no serious investment in this state budget. So, if this is a key project by the President of the Government, this is said to speak of the abolition of partial prisons on state roads in this forthcoming speech, then it means that there is no specific investment in this state budget. In addition, the Minister of Finance has commented on certain measures and some expectations and would only point out that the majority of the amendments tabled in this budget constitute a violation of the constitutional fiscal rule and constitutes a significant deviation from the planned path of public financial consolidation. If the Minister of Finance says so, he does not know some of the basic rules applicable to the application of the amendments to the budget. The Group or an individual may not submit an amendment to the budget if it is not financially balanced, that is to say that the balance is nothing. If it is in the budget that these amendments are so made, if they are not so made, the amendment is immaterial anyway. None of these amendments, which we have tabled, and most of them relate to the promotion of investments, constitute a departure from the planned public financial path and from financial consolidation. In no case can it break the financial balance of this budget. If that were to happen, then the President of the National Assembly will declare the amendment irrelevant. Not one of the amendments tabled — you say 45 — does not have the status of a meaningless amendment, which means that it is a grave deceiving. Some of you speak, and also the Minister of Finance said that this budget is such that it is not possible, that it is not necessary, that it should not be corrected and that these amendments would mean that I do not know what. If this budget is as the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance said, then we do not need a law on the implementation of the budget, which lays down the rights to redistribute the budget by 20% plus or minus, in some cases, elsewhere 10 plus, minus; 5 plus, minus – you have those articles there from 23, 24, and there are up to 30. So why does the government need such a loose rule that it can redistribute the budget balance sheet items and at the same time says the Minister of Finance that we will break the fiscal consolidation by one amendment for 50,000 euros? Who's kidding around here? The government, if it is preparing the budget as said by the Minister of Finance and as advocated by the coalition Members, does not need a law on the implementation of the budget, with such large movements of annual changes in individual chapters, areas or whatever we call it in the budget. The fact that the Government needs such large budget implementation shifts means only that there are deaf items or large-booking items on certain items by ministerial departments. That it wasn't planning, which was accurate, but it was speculative. On the basis of this speculative planning and with the right enshrined in the law on the implementation of the budget, every minister, every budgetary user, I do not know, will tailor part of the budget for what he thinks he will be able to implement and he does not have to show it in the budget in the way he should. So this is some serious, solid piece of shit. I wonder, given what was said in the introduction and even in that presentation I do not know which October, what kind of document is this budget, if everything is so loosely done for the Government and the budgetary users. What kind of document is that? What seriousness does this document have, what strength does this document have? But here you're talking about that no amendment we've tabled is appropriate for a government coalition to confirm it, but you're legislating a plus minus 20% redistribution. Calculate what is plus, minus 20% of the right under the sub-programme, the main programme and so on proposers of the financial plans. Calculate how much that is. A billion euros about. A billion Euros will be able to be redistributed by the Government, and here you say it is pointless, impossible, unnecessary, and I don't know what else we're going to break if we accept the amendment for 50 or 100,000 Euros. See, since 1995, I have been preparing budgets; first of all, I have been participating in this work since 2000 as an opposition or coalition Member. It will be difficult for me and anyone else to catch a cold so that nothing can be changed or that this is the only salvation that the government has proposed. Those who claim to do so must first ensure that all transfer rights are removed from ZIPRA. The certificate of this budget will be the final invoice. See, the closing account that has now been held at this meeting for the previous financial year – how much difference is there between the original draft budget between what was concluded after the balance sheet at the end? If it fits in a third, it's a lot. So talking about these things is sort of a problem. If you want us to promote economic growth, you should also find out or tell what the Government has done for it. How much and what measures have we taken to demobilise the business environment? What measures have we taken to stimulate exporters? What measures have we taken to encourage economic growth, new investments and so on? Go over the budget and look at the measures. Even those good measures that were when we introduced investment reliefs for those who invest are being reduced or deleted. All that will happen with this budget will be that there will be some public calls, where state officials will determine what a smart investment is for an economist or for some espionage. Nothing more or almost nothing more than that he would choose and enforce tax relief. Why would we do that through these calls? If there are no measures for economic growth, other measures are almost meaningless. If there is economic growth, it will also work in the economy. If there is no economic growth, it will be employed in the public sector. That's almost 100%. If there is economic growth, the economy will self-employment and do not need any state aid and subsidies for new jobs because it will do so out of real need and will decide. However, if someone boasts that we have introduced a lot, I don't know what subsidies for new jobs, especially jobs in the public sector, and it doesn't encourage economic growth, but it's increasingly fixating the budget because it confuses it with new fixed obligations. He's inelastic. He's not responding. It's practically done as it was done. It is difficult to say that the Government has done everything necessary for a certain development budget. It is said that there is no investment, exports are made by exporters, it is not made by the government, it is not made by the state and so on, this is the economy. What depends on the state, however, is the use of European funds. That depends on the state. And look at the budget or the budget cuts this year on these items and look at the reserve that remains in perspective in order to draw this out. Without investments there is no economic growth, it is certainly one time. And if the state, if the government does everything not to draw on the resources available to encourage investment, including in this state sector, has certainly done absolutely nothing in this area. In short, it is difficult to talk here about how the government has tried very hard to make something dynamic happen. The government has made efforts to burden this budget with additional fixed burdens of EUR 130 or 150 million for public sector wages, and has done nothing to ensure that this economic growth is as it was. Here we have heard a prediction that current growth is significantly lower than forecast. And given that these things could be transferred to the expenditure component of the budget, it is a very big question when we will meet here with the rebalancing, the restrictions and the deletion of those investments that remain in the budget. We know you're going to pay your wages, but there will be no public sector wages, no exports, and neither will there be any European funds. And we're back in that circle when nothing effective is done, just a few medals will be attached to what we won't do to keep the public sector out of harm's way. So it would be good if the President of the Government or the Minister of Finance would tell you when you got here, what the impact on economic growth will be when the budget is charged. There's going to be some spending going up, but I don't think there's much. How much of what will further halt economic growth on the side of additional burdens on the economic side will probably be the witness in the coming weeks when the government comes up with a package of additional burdens, when it invents a new tax, raises what kind of thing. The lower VAT rate was the appropriate measure we proposed to relieve, in particular, those who live the most difficult. There is a lower rate, a reduction in VAT rates has the greatest effect. But the government has not accepted this proposal and will be able to take place at this high tax level. Only additional measures can be expected, especially if the macro framework on which this is calculated is lower or substantially lower than what is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Some indications require a response. First of all, as far as debt is concerned. In 2016, a debt repayment charge of EUR 3.8 billion is foreseen for principals and for the payment of the difference or the payment of the deficit. This does not mean an additional 4 billion in 2016, but amounts to 2 billion and a half. It is also not correct to argue that we will need over a billion 200 and a billion 300 resources to service the public debt of the state budget in 2016 and 2017. A billion 59 million are planned and realistic for 2016 and a billion and 7 million are real and planned for 2017. It is also not accurate that we need a billion 700 for the transfer of liabilities to the pension fund in the state budget for 2016. This year, expenditure is expected for both regular and additional transfers of EUR 420 million, for 2016 EUR 35 billion and for 2017 EUR 37 billion. And these are actually real numbers. All I have to do is add this information to the municipalities. The tax revenue of municipalities – I consider only tax revenues so that no one would tell me that we are showing too good a picture of municipal budgets at the expense of European funds – increased the estimate for 2015 by 8%, but if we look at it last year, it is a 15% increase. So much for how much financial burden the congregations bear. It is true, however, that in the municipalities, the public financial crisis and the level of low income collected from 2012 and 2013 is best known in 2014, 2015 and 2016. Furthermore, what measures have been taken for the economy. I still believe that the strength or stability of public financial policy is a key measure that the state must provide for stable economic development and GDP growth. This is also what we do with this budget. We provide gradual fiscal consolidation, we ensure a reduction of the structural deficit by 0.6% of GDP, so we are gradually approaching spending as much as we create. At the same time, we have accepted and respect the commitment not to increase nominal tax rates in 2015 and 2016. We have taken a number of measures to improve the business environment in the country. True, not all are finished, but they are started and the first results are visible. The survey of the World Bank under the English name Doing Business placed Slovenia from the 51st place it was ranked in 2014 in the 29th place in 2015. Part of this improvement is due to changes in the methodology and are essentially redistributed by all countries first by this methodology, but further improvement in the classification of Slovenia is also due to changes in the administrative tax environment and the legal or judicial system. There will be more talk about tax reliefs or changes in tax policy when the draft laws are submitted to the National Assembly for consideration. However, it is a restructuring, i.e. a change in the type of tax revenue that we are expecting, and by no means a change in the amount of expected tax revenue, as a whole. In connection with the amendments tabled. It is true that they are formally invested in an appropriate manner and cannot therefore be classified as inadequate. However, if I do not focus on the amendments of the individual parliamentary group, I will provide some information for all the amendments tabled together. All the amendments tabled are EUR 210 million. Of this, €90.3 million is taken on items providing debt servicing resources, which means, in other words, that if these amendments were to be adopted, the Government would have to provide an additional €90.3 million of budgetary spending rights in order not to come into the situation without servicing public debt or paying interest on the envisaged deadlines. An additional 2 million go into the burden of making payments to the European budget, where we also do not have the opportunity to approve them or to reject them. And another very unusual approach. With one amendment alone, 43 % of its funds shall be taken from one of the budget users or from one of the bodies in the composition of one of the financial plan promoters. And then we demand that taxes be collected effectively. I'm sure they can't do it that way. As far as redistribution is concerned, which is opposed to in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, there is likely to be more talk on this subject, but I have to respond to it. Redistribution rights do not constitute additional spending rights. The redistribution right means the flexibility of budgetary users to respond to changes during the financial year. The budget proposal, as it is, is normally made on the basis of some assessments and assumptions. And the question is whether everything is being realized on the same scale and in the same way as we expected. And these reallocation rights, as included in this proposal by ZIPRS, do not derogate in any way from the rights that have so far been granted to budgetary users and have not resulted in additional spending. It is important for these redistribution rights that, except in rare exceptions, it is not allowed at all to essentially shift to the burden of additional indebtedness. The only right in this regard is to service public debt, to transfer to the PIC and to propose a new draft law on the implementation of the budget for the purpose of regulating the costs of the migrant crisis. I still owe an answer to the question about the pension raise. The official figure on the average pension, the retirement pension in September is 610 euros. Taking this data into account, an increase of 4,27 euros in pensions will be provided in January 2016. However, if I take into account the average of all pensions, including invalids and others, then the average pension is 562.7 euros, which means 3.75 euros in increase in January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Do not be afraid, I understand why the rules of redeployment are set out in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. However, if the Minister of Finance comes to the National Assembly and says that the amendments do not have to be accepted or that the coalition cannot accept them because they mean a departure from the road map, then I ask why the Government has written down such a large transfer rights. Practically everyone receiving a budget from the smallest budget user to the government has certain rights to modify budgetary documents. Here in the National Assembly, we were given a budget, deadlines were set for the amendments to be tabled, and the Minister would come to the National Assembly and say, if you accept any amendments, including the one for 5,000 euros for mediation or the 100,000, 150,000 euros for the commission of inquiry or 50,000 euros for a railway undertaking, that means a departure from the road map. Do you not think that on the one hand we have the opportunity to give the government an opportunity or an opportunity to distribute, I don't know, 100 million euros, 50 million euros, and on the other hand it does not tolerate the practical adoption of an amendment for some minor value, because that would mean a departure from the road map? It doesn't make any sense in this argument. And I think that with such flossules, when you came to the National Assembly, there are people here who were involved in preparing budgets at local level, state level and so on, because this is not a serious argument. And I'm counting on at least the Minister of Finance counting on us to have some sense of these things here. And one more thing, every budget section, each ministry has probably provided itself with some items that the Minister will be able to redistribute and later implement, or not at all, in the implementation of the budget. If all these items were to be held as planned, on a legal basis, with all the things that were said in the National Assembly, the government and no budgetary user would need such a large redistribution rights. He doesn't need them. But apparently that's not the case. And the government needs a space of manoeuvre to push these funds across at a total of about a billion euros. Here you are tired of not accepting an amendment for 100,000 euros or for 20,000 euros. That's not serious. I'm not serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! This morning or this morning, it was said that coordination with the congregations was under way. Today, we have no harmony with the congregation. Is this budget even real? Do we even know how many congregations will actually receive, and what will happen if this does not happen? What happens if the deal doesn't actually come to an agreement? And here, distinguished representatives of the government, this is not a matter of the congregation. We do not accept the municipal budget here, none of the few more than 200 municipalities. We are here today to adopt the state budget. And the government's job is to coordinate. How it will coordinate, how many circles it will make, how many times it will meet, in the morning or in the evening, in the afternoon or at night, this, I will say, is of secondary importance given that the budget has to be coordinated. And it's not. And if it is not harmonised, it is contrary to certain legislation and the Public Finance Act and the Fiscal Rule Act, in short, it is not known here. In fact, we're taking something that we don't really know about. Or it's going to be an average of 525, 536, 522 and so on. Look, tell me what will happen if the budget is not adopted. And you can't solve all the redistribution issues. By redistribution, municipalities will be freed, European funds will be disposed of by redistribution, migrants will be rescued if, of course, more, or if more than 80 migrants are actually left in Slovenia over the next two years. However, you are preparing a budget for 2016 and 2017. We have here today, ladies and gentlemen, already a systemic question whether this budget is actually closed. Also because, under the Public Finance Act, all laws must be adopted before this budget is adopted. But today we have three laws on the Ministry of Finance websites, some of which mean additional financial effects, others mean additional expenditure from the state budget, and here we do not really know anything again. For example, one is the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, one is the Law on Income, one is the Law on Income, another is a special law, which will tax a little less the remuneration that employees will receive from the Shareholders and so on and so on. And this is not about tax redistribution, ladies and gentlemen. See, this tax redistribution is an expression brought by the Minister of Finance to the Committee on Finance, where he said, "No, no, these are not taxes, but this is just a little redistribution." And here, Madam Secretary of State Vraničar Erman, this is not a reallocation now. The fact is that tax reliefs are being abolished and that this will actually lead to a greater inflow in 2016, as this will result in a new upturn in corporate income for taxpayers. Either they have to do it themselves or the tax administration or the financial administration will do it. Here things are so clear that they can't be any clearer. And this budget, I find, is not actually closed, either on the revenue side or on the expenditure side. I don't know, maybe we can have a budget rebalance for Christmas or maybe three kings already. Of course, from this point of view, this claim, respected by the Secretary of State, is not a nominal increase in tax rates. See, taxes are paid not only on the basis of nominal tax rates, but also on the abolition of reliefs, investment reliefs, research and development reliefs, employment facilitations or the reduction of these benefits. And that's why the tax burden is higher. All elements from tax base to tax rate, to tax exemption to tax exemption, to tax exclusion, to any tax rate at the end or changes in transfer prices may increase or reduce the taxpayer's tax burden. And here, let us stop blinding ourselves to the fact that only tax rates increase taxes. That's not true. Most of all, it depends on the tax base. You are here to increase the tax base and therefore there will be additional revenues that are not in law, and this is therefore contrary to the Public Finance Act. And we don't have a closed budget. I'm also surprised here that the thesis that you just said, look, the right of redeployment is because different things are happening over the course of the year and we have to redistribute it. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we also have a budget reserve here for certain purposes only. On the other hand, the budget is just an act adopted in the National Assembly to ensure policies in the fields of education, social, economy, investment, the environment and so on, but on the basis of following these policies. However, if an emergency comes, if there are extraordinary events that could not have been planned, which could not have been planned, then it can be redistributed, but only at the time that the budget has not yet been adopted, it is already planning on how the funds for the municipalities will be redistributed, for European funds and so on, and you will write for yourself. This, I'm sorry, is not planning, it's not planning, it's just that it's managing economic policies, it's just that it's a strategy that we're not talking about vision. Actually, that's not what it is. Even the accounting document is not complete because it is not simply closed. The government, if, of course, is talking about measures for the economy, then it is necessary to say here that it is increasing the tax burden and making these measures worse and poorer conditions for the economy. However, assuming that it represents a higher tax deterioration of the conditions of management, this is under this assumption, of course, I am speaking here. And, of course, look, great disappointment is also the budgetary memorandum 2016-2017 on something, even if it is on some lists, but the content is a problem, because the budgetary memorandum, for the first time, does not include all sectors of the country or the economy. It's mostly done at the Ministry of Finance. Something about debt, of course. Here, by the way, the distinguished secretary of state, when you mentioned these debt figures, I quote the minister, forgive me, and I will apologize if I misheard him, but he said this morning that we will be in debt for 4.1 billion and repay 2.9 billion debt. Those are his words. I wrote them myself. Now of course you can calculate here from one account, another account, but I'm sorry if he didn't say it, look, I'll look at the magnetogram, if I hear it wrong, I apologize. But now the other numbers tell you whether it's now 3,7 or 3,8 is completely irrelevant, but the point is that you actually have to operate on one number. Even if the Ministry of Finance has different numbers, it should operate in public with one number regardless of all the calculations it actually has here. I am also, of course, amazed at this document, the budgetary memorandum, when it speaks of the taxation and additional taxation of legal persons, when it changes the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, where the central principle of the proposal is, it is said, from the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, which reduces incentives for investment for development and so on, for employment, follows, above all, be careful, quote, "to fair taxation by eliminating double non-taxation, preventing abuse and consistent taxation." End of quote. First, fair taxation is arranged, I think Mrs Secretary of State Vraničar Erman knows this, with agreements to avoid double taxation. If the OECD now has a problem with this and if the OECD has found that a double taxation agreement means an agreement on double taxation, of course this is another issue now, but this law certainly does not address it. And I would be very careful if I talked about the honesty and honesty of the taxation of legal persons. Because I think they will also tell you in Luxembourg that if 2% of the rate for multinationals applies, this is fair. It is fair that someone on the other hand will tell you that 60% of taxes or 70% of taxes on income not reported by individuals are fair. And it's a term that's relative. In fact, I would be a little more reserved for honesty, justice and so on. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we can talk about any great fair distribution of the tax burden by the Government here. However, we can talk about the deterioration of the economic situation by further administrativeising the whole matter. And the only measure actually to be implemented in the field of taxes is increased taxes, which I have already talked about, from value added tax, which will now continue to be 22%, even though this was meant only temporarily, to an increase in income, as the cost of living valorisation is abolished. And of course, what is the greatest systemic measure, I quote the Government, of course, in that it is systemic, is the introduction of tax registers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a systemic measure, it is an administrative measure that will burden taxpayers and make a lot of gray hair to the taxpayers and at the end of the financial administration and at the end of the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance and the whole government, if that does not work. From this point of view these issues and in fact these changes, which, of course, are supposed to mean greater economic growth, I am sorry, I do not know such changes, which would have an impact on greater economic growth, which is one of the key objectives of this government. This economic growth that we have today is the result of measures in the field of labour law, pension legislation, in the area of bringing together the management of state-owned enterprises and in the resolution of the bank's poor claims. That's what the Minister of Finance is talking about, if you want, in Washington World Bank, and that's what he said and I'll give him right here. But everything else is, of course, like this. I also have here a table when we are talking about, of course, different scales where we are, and it says: "The ranking of Slovenia on The World Bank's Doing Business 2015 from 189 countries in 51st place, if we are looking at the competitiveness of the business environment. Well, maybe you have another one, anyway, I just want to say that I have such a scale, 2014 33rd place, 2013 35th place, 2012 37th city, 2007 again second and so on and so on. So that you may have some other Doing Business scale, but in fact these are not measures to promote economic growth, and I am afraid that with this budget, which is unambitious, which is unpredictable for people to actually lose what has been or is what we have today. Also because there is no new investment, also because we do not have any improvements in employment, education and environmental policy. And I don't think it's good in the long term and now I don't know when you're going to come with a change in this budget – I think very soon – but I'm afraid that change will only be more or less administrative. Once again, see, we are here without all budget bases, we do not know what will happen to the municipalities, that I am not talking about EU funds at all, and so on. One more thing, you will accept this budget, the coalition will accept it, no amendment will probably be adopted, it is the coalition's agreement. And here I am not making any illusions that anything will change. But it is sad that no amendment will be accepted. I hope you will reconsider the need to provide specific funds for the Investigative Commission for the banking system. But this I think that now, if not the other, also needs to show what is actually said, in short, that he wants to come here, I will not say it to the end, but at least a little longer, even with regard to responsibility and all of this. And it must also be demonstrated in a symbolic way that this will actually happen and that it will actually strengthen this commission, which will review it within the framework of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, the coordination of the budget. The Law on the financing of municipalities provides if it is not possible to conclude an agreement with the municipalities that the amount of the average may be determined by the Law on the implementation of the budget. It is also laid down in the draft law on the implementation of the budget and the means for an average of EUR 522, as provided for by the last amendment in the Law on the implementation of the budget, the amount of appropriations for the average or for the financial settlement in 2016 is provided. From this perspective, we consider that the draft budget and that the draft budgets and the Law on the Implementation of Budgets are mutually coordinated. At the average of EUR 522 for 2017, there is no need for financial compensation because the revenue belonging to the municipalities is sufficient to finance appropriate spending. The second concerns the reallocation of European funds. As early as July of this year, we adopted an amendment to the current law on budget implementation, which laid down new rules for drawing on the European funds of the new financial perspective in order not to accumulate unused spending rights with individual budgetary users, but, in fact, in accordance with planned policies and expenditure, to provide funds where projects are actually prepared. As a result, in the 2016 draft budget, around 60% of all funds planned for pumping in the coming year are planned for the Government for Cohesion and Development and will be redistributed to the ministries, together with the Slovenian participation, as soon as the investment documents are prepared so far as consumption in these ministries is actually ensured. In doing so, we want to achieve a more equitable absorption of European funds, not a build-up of expenditure at the end of the financial perspective, which is what has been happening to us with the old financial perspective in the last two years. With regard to the budgetary memorandum, I should point out once again that it needs to be read together with the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, which are a comprehensive budget memorandum, and we have already said more about it in the past discussions. As regards the planned tax reform, the planned tax changes, those envisaged as the first step this year, are talking about restructuring the tax burden, i.e. increasing certain liabilities and reducing other liabilities at the same time, which means that the sumarum sumarum remains unchanged in the amount of expected tax revenue under this Title and will otherwise be distributed to the resources of these revenues. From this point of view of the laws which constitute tax restructuring, we do not count them in the budget package, but we have prepared them separately. And when I talk about not raising the tax burden by respecting the social agreement, I quote a social agreement that states that "we will not raise nominal rates, but we will harmonise the restructuring of the tax burden by overwinding existing tax reliefs". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Replica, I'm sorry. Replica mags. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, this, and with regard to these tax burdens, the restructuring of tax burdens goes on and on, this really requires my replica. You can't always look at taxes from the point of view of the budget. Taxes are paid by taxpayers, businesses, individuals, independent entrepreneurs and so on. And they will be subject to tax burdens, and this budget depends on them, because they pay taxes to finance public spending to finance our salaries, your wages and so on and so on. Of course, just things, see, because the tax revenues will be the same, and because of this, and I don't believe in this, this calculation has too little knowledge, because the investment reliefs themselves are unknown, because the unknown are incentives for research and development and are dependent on different factors on the market. And that's even worse because this environment is taxly unstable. And of course, you've made this calculation here, so that in the end it all comes out, but only on paper. I can guarantee you that if these numbers are accepted, I hope they don't, they won't end up. That's not gonna hold next year. And this tax restructuring, this expression, this is something new, now you remember, sometimes we call it an increase in taxes or a reduction or a reduction in taxes, but now it's said - you know, if I take one in my left pocket and put it in my right pocket, it doesn't mean that I took one and gave it to the other, but it's tax redistribution, restructuring or whatever. Look, let's just use the right words to name some of the things we're talking about here today. And I am not saying what was important about the social agreement, but I am talking about the conditions of management that will change, about the stability and security of management for businesses, if you want, for Krka, for Slovenian railways, for whoever will change the terms of management. And this is bad in principle, because these companies need to prepare for this for so long, to change policies, and this certainly does not affect economic growth. Even less, I think this is why economic growth is going to fall. That's my replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Jože Tanko and the Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. And now, Mr. Joseph Horvath, I apologize. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. It's okay. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Marathon budget debate took place on Friday 13th, also today. Just one point. It is true that the government party or, in particular, the Secretary of State has answered the opposition's questions correctly, that it has defended the Government's position correctly, but, colleagues and colleagues, that the opposition is not right in any proposal, you know what, this is the building of the Berlin Wall between us. And that's not good. Remember, that's not good. When Jozet Tank and I were the leaders of the parliamentary group during the 2004-2008 term, we agreed that we would support and support some of the opposition's amendments. If that were not the case, today, Mr Miro Cerar, not today, could not open a subway in Murski Sobota this year. At that time, I committed myself to supporting the opposition's amendment – the LDS, Dr Mitja Slavinec put it in, and this year the undercarriage was built, the 6 million investment and the devil did not take it, forgive me for using such rhetoric. Why am I saying this? Because I understand and I hope that we all understand that we are considering the country's budget, the citizens' budget. I hope that we are not considering the budget of this coalition or for this coalition, that I am more accurate. For all 2 million 45 thousand, as far as we are, I hope so. And there's something else I'd like to say. The laws are binding on everyone, including the government. And the government is breaking them down here. I'll stop in the congregation. Maybe we're repeating ourselves like shit. If we look at the methodology, if we look at the Community Financing Act, then the average for 2016 plus, given the agreement that was agreed on the average for 2013 and 2014, it was agreed that the average for 2016 would be €536, which is now proposal 522, which is the same as the average for this year when we had 525 and 519 for one half of the year, which is the average of 522 and we are going next year on the proposal for a coalition. And that's wrong. Look, this is wrong because you gave the municipalities an additional burden of €13 million by negotiating wage increases. At least for that much, we should raise the average. At least that much. But no. So that I don't mention any of ours, I'll say right-wing mayors. Ask Mr. Kontic how he feels about it. He advocated that the average should be according to the Community Financing Act, according to methodology 652.6 euros. Now how much less is it? It's less than 130 euros. We are talking about 260 million that the congregations should receive by marriage, but they do not receive. And now, of course, the government is sad that today all three representative associations have said: no, we do not agree to 525. Yeah, of course not. They said they'd dock at 530. Now let's figure out what kind of money we're talking about. From 522 to 530 is 8 euros. So it's about 16 million. That's what we're talking about. And since I have relatively little time, allow me to sum up further, Madam Vice-President, our amendments, which will be discussed at the next stage. We are precisely because of coherent regional development – to what is happening to us – the countryside is becoming less and less developed, the centre is becoming more and more developed. Is that fair? Is that fair, colleagues and colleagues? It's not fair! It's not fair. The countryside, including the Slovenian periphery is Slovenian, is part of this country. And it hurts my heart, it really hurts my heart that somehow my back is turning literally to the periphery or to the Slovenian countryside. That really hurts. It really hurts. That is why we have advocated our amendments to increase the financial alignment of the congregations. Financial compensation is an extremely important source of funding for municipalities, which ensures the implementation by law of certain tasks to municipalities if an individual municipality with revenues provided by law cannot cover all costs. A very important source. We are committed to our amendments to New Slovenia to increase funds for local development infrastructure. We have advocated in our amendments to increase funds when it comes to investment maintenance and the construction of state roads. Here in particular, I have highlighted the following: under this programme, there is still not enough resources to build the Murska Sobota East. That's what the government promised, and the government doesn't stick to their agreements. Is that fair, colleagues and colleagues? And for the following year 2016, only €200,000 is planned. And as far as I can recall from my conversation with the mayor of the Municipality of Murska Sobota, the minister responsible for transport and infrastructure promised 600,000. Now we have three times the amount. Is that fair, colleagues and colleagues? And given that a greater amount of funding is planned for it, for this masonry railway, only after 2019, and funding is expected to be completed by 2023, see, it is very unlikely that this undertaking will be built within this period. Why are we still in New Slovenia with our amendments? In order to increase the funding of young researchers, mobility and incentives to the best researchers. We need a technological breakthrough, because otherwise in the long term we will all be "lon arbitrators", dealing only with some unfinished business. What standard will completing our business provide us? Vegetation. And SURS, Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, said this September 2015 that the risk of poverty remains. We're not interested in minimum wage. We're interested in good pay. We're interested in new jobs. At least 60,000 new jobs, such as with high wages, so that our people can have material and spiritual prosperity. That's what this is about. And we're capable, we are, I believe we're capable. I'm an optimist, I'm a realist, we're capable. What will we continue to call ourselves if we do not invest in research and development? Sports infrastructure, some of you have talked about this before. And what might seem irrelevant to you, but we think it is, look, the government has the task of implementing the last novel of the archive law. We've talked about this a lot. We also had a referendum. The government does not legally provide sufficient funds to digitise the archive material. We talk so much about the archives of the Udba and so on, we're just tired of it. It's a very simple task. This archive of the Judgment, which remains, this smaller scope that remains, let us raise it up and put it on the website, of course, sensitive personal data must be anonymized by law. Let's put it on the website, and we've closed this thing, in my opinion, at least. I'm sure we're closed. But once again, the government doesn't stick to the law. The government is the one who doesn't stick to the law. And that's what I'm worried about personally. We say, yes, we have good economic growth, we don't worry, we have good economic growth. It is true, all honour to the Slovenian economy, but not to the Government's actions. I am concerned, however, that the strongest European economy within the euro area, Germany, is cooling off. Our exports to Germany are the most targeted. That's what I'm worried about. I hope you do. [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiši has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkrajšek, followed by Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. This budget, like the Socialists in today's debate, has already been able to identify at any committee hearing before, and it is not very social on the expenditure side, nor on the revenue side, is it at all advanced. We have economic growth, we know that wealth in our society rises, but at the same time this same wealth accumulates in the hands of the most privileged layers and classes in our society, while ordinary people, working people, the vast majority of Slovenian citizens and citizens of this budget, of this economic growth, of this created value have nothing, even though it is the working people who create all the value. The budget is based on some ideological postulates, neoliberal ideological postulates. As a result, our options, the possibilities of the United Left in the resolution of such a budget, were, of course, limited. This is why we have focused only on a few areas where we can remedy the existing situation within the limits within which the budget is already drawn. One such amendment is, for example, a poor three million euro allocated to the labour market and working conditions, very concrete for training and education. What's the story? In the United Left, we advocate conversion in this area. Instead of subsidising employees to subsidise capitalists if you want, we think and stress that it is necessary to shift to investing in job seekers themselves. Of course, a policy that goes from active employment policies to full employment policies is certainly a better alternative here, but, as I said, in the ideological postulates of this budget, this was our best option. We warn here that no formal education programmes have been implemented for years. There is growing reliance on some psychological and motivational workshops that do not benefit the job seekers in any way, but, of course, strengthen the ideology of individualism and mutual competitiveness among working people, which is certainly controversial. At the same time, we note that the need for education will increase because the proportion of those who are long-term unemployed and the proportion of young people is constantly increasing. And even young people in this context are the ones most suitable for such measures, which are also proposed here. That is why we expect the Ministry, together with the competent services, to draw up new programmes if this amendment of ours is a heavy 3 million euro, and I still place it on the heart of everyone here today to support this amendment. At the same time, the implementation of such programmes must be independent of the acquisition of European funds. We can turn, for example, to social workers, which shows that the European Social Fund funds are extremely uncertain and insufficient and therefore cannot act as a compensation for resources in the integrated budget. At the same time, this is an area that is extremely fragile and needs to be earmarked and allocated from an integrated budget. We provide the means for this item by transferring within the Ministry of Labour, we do not go beyond this, namely by regulating the system in the area of competitiveness and entrepreneurship. In the area of the Ministry of Labour, competitiveness, clean wine is a reduction in labour and social rights, and in entrepreneurship, subsidisation of employees and the creation of punitive jobs. We know how a catastrophic project at the Ministry of Labour, which promoted the so-called espection, has come up, and this certainly is not the solution to the huge unemployment rate Slovenia has, and in particular the high unemployment rate among young people. The next such amendment, which I would like to highlight, touches the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. We are allocating an additional half million euros to this inspectorate. We all know here, at least we should know that we're growing up in unfair jobs. I'm sorry. The proportion of safe, regular jobs for an indefinite period is decreasing, while at the same time there is an increase in unsustainable, poor on-call forms of employment. In most of these penitentiaries, it is also a violation of labour law for intervention in labour rights. Legislation remains somewhat progressive with us for the time being, but in practice we are often, often faced with the fact that it is simply not respected and the burden of this disrespect is, of course, borne by working people, those who are employed, or those who are some of the penitential, working relationships. And also the number of serious violations in this context is increasing. All of this is confirmed not only by the reports of the Labour Inspectorate. Over the last six years, the number of economic operators controlled by this inspectorate has increased by as much as 30,000. On the other hand, the number of work inspectors has fallen from 88 to 80, of which only half of them work in the field of labour relations. We can imagine what an increase in the burden on the Labour Inspectorate this represents. And it is obvious that we need to make a qualitative leap from the current situation in this area of labour relations monitoring and compliance with labour law. In the area of social working relations control, however, we are faced with some point, which is the training and employment of new labour inspectors, which, once again, I stress the Slovenian labour market and Slovenian workers, young people, old people, whatever needs to be bloody. And here again I appeal to all present and to all political groups in this National Assembly to support this amendment, at least in rhetoric, at least in word, everyone here seems to advocate for working people, for Slovenian people, for Slovenian citizens and citizens. A measure giving half a million euros to the Labour Inspectorate would greatly, greatly contribute to improving the enforcement of labour law in practice, thereby improving the material situation of Slovenian workers and workers and, of course, the level of their rights or their rights. Which brings me to the Ministry of Health and to the nutrition of the Ministry of Health. Here, with the first amendment, we propose a €1.5 million increase in the investment investment item at the primary level. We are very concerned in the United Left about the fact that, according to this year's implementation, the funds for investment in health are declining by up to €27 million, and given 2014 this decrease is difficult for €7 million. In doing so, further consideration must be given to the fact that municipalities are forced to lower investment funds because of their overaverage and, of course, this will also be known in the field of health. We are somewhat surprised that the Government does not support the amendments and that it has not provided additional resources in the supplementary draft budget in view of its declaration obligations in the coalition contract in the media and so on, which we can often hear. This amendment, which I am now presenting, binds to investments at the primary level, amounts to health homes. It is true that the Republic of Slovenia is not the founder of health homes, but is obliged to assist the municipalities in their investments. In order to substantiate this issue, I quote: "The purpose of the sub-programme is to acquire and update functional space, acquire appropriate equipment and improve basic health standards for the population". And here again, I quote: "access to health services for citizens in areas or municipalities where the activity is not yet carried out". This is by definition the point of this sub-programme, which should then be addressed by the Republic of Slovenia, even if it is not a co-founder of health homes. Examples, such as complications with a paediatric dispenser in the Poljanska Valley, show that the Ministry should take a significantly more involved approach to regulating the situation in primary health care, by means of technical assistance, cash deposits. This is particularly necessary for the introduction of an emergency medical care system. And once again, in favor of this amendment, I appeal to all of you to support it. We know that the situation in Slovenian health care is drastic, we know what is going on. With this amendment, worth a million and a half euros, we are at least partially trying to remedy the investment investment situation at the primary level. We are also continuing with the health amendment, which touches on investment investments at secondary and tertiary level. This amendment, which we have tabled in the procedure and in reception, weighs EUR 6 million 700,000. In the Slovenian health system, according to the latest data, more than 200,000 people are waiting for an examination or intervention, which is 17% more than last year and shows that we are dealing with bottlenecks and that the problem is exacerbated, while we are not recovering these bottlenecks. One of the reasons for these bottlenecks is that the last years of investment have been focused almost exclusively on emergency medicine, but almost nothing in hospitals and specialist clinics, which, of course, suffered as a result. The problem of these bottlenecks should be addressed immediately. 200,000 people aren't a small number. This is 200,000 people who are in line who are robbed of quality health care and, of course, this is absolutely wrong. The Ministry has all the information where additional purchases are needed, says there is a technical reservation and we have no problem, but I will only remind you and remind you of some. CT equipment and magnetic resonance — by population, we are in the worst third among OECD countries. It's just an alarm bell. Days ago, we were able to read about delays in the UKC cardiology department in Ljubljana, where a narrow throat does not appear due to lack of doctors and it is not a problem that the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia would not want to pay for additional interventions, but simply to obsolete and worn appliances, specifically chronographs. These are just two cases in which I want to encourage you to support this amendment and why investment at the secondary and tertiary level needs to be supported. And the Ministry here certainly cannot claim that it has sufficient resources to address these needs. Last but not least, the Minister of Health at the meeting of the home working body stated that, I will quote, "the budget is sufficient to carry out all the necessary projects in 2016." What I just said is an emergency project. Two hundred thousand people in line is one big emergency project. After all, in the written rejection of our amendment, the ministry has slightly eased the formulation and said that, I quote, "they are sufficient for the realization of all the projects planned," but the fact remains. In the United Left, we certainly do not agree with this direction in the field of health, because it is very clear that there is a lack of knowledge and a lack, and this is the worst, political will and with the government and the ministry itself. The planned projects and funds are not enough to remove the main bottlenecks of the health system, and we therefore insist on our amendment and once again lay on your heart that – for God's sake, 200,000 people in waiting lines – we would be very happy if this amendment were supported. Which brings me to higher education and to the amendment on the subject of higher education. We are strengthening this item by EUR 2 million and a half. I'm not even gonna lose words here. We know that the austerity measures of past years have affected our school system far more than anything else, and within this particular higher education. And higher education needs to be reinvigorated. Higher education is a source of innovation, higher education is a source of research, higher education is a knowledge base of social economic and any progress, and if we have to support something as a traveller for the future, it is certainly a higher education. With these funds allocated to higher education, we would like them to focus on solving the schooling problem at the third stage of the study, according to doctoral students. The smartest people run away from us simply because they don't have money to pay third-degree tuition, and that's totally unacceptable. I'll stop here, give my word to my comrades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. We're gonna have to apply. Mr Ljubo Žnidar is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u137	Madam Vice President, thank you for your word! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking all day about the most important document for 2016 and 2017. Initially, we have heard from the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance what the budget is for these two years, and at the end of the day, the Prime Minister, as we have heard from my colleagues today, has said: Good work! And left this hall. I believe that this budget is not closed. Because, of course, it is not perfectly coordinated with all municipalities or municipalities in Slovenia. Let me first touch the congregations. I can't believe you can't find a common language with the mayors of Slovenian municipalities. Of course, it is taken away from the congregations each year and, on the other hand, new obligations are imposed on them. I think and I am sure that the mayors of Slovenian municipalities play a very special and important role in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, they deal with investments and take care of such or different problems of their citizens and citizens every day, as a result of which our citizens and citizens are also concerned. Of course, they don't listen, they go from week to week, they write and negotiate. On the other hand, the minister or government listens to those who threaten to go to the streets. Of course, this fear is not that our mayors should go to the streets, so I am concerned that there is no common language here in the form of, above all, an average that would give investment in our local community and also ensure the quality of life of citizens and citizens. On the other hand, the economy, including the economy, is constantly being imposed because we are confident that our directors or managers will not go to the streets. I'm afraid how long this system can last. Let me touch security in our country. For six months in this National Assembly, we are talking about a migrant and a small refugee crisis. Today we have heard how many millions will be needed for this crisis, which I think is only at the beginning, but for these migrants there will be millions. I am not saying that we can avoid this, but the fact that if these migratory crises in the summer took us seriously, more responsibly, knew what would happen to us in the winter days, and that we know what would happen to us in the spring times, there could certainly be less resources for this crisis, which is not only Slovenian, but also European. Of course, we do, as I say, in areas where we know no one will go to the streets. If I started with our mayors – surely if we put this budget in our mayors' hands, we would know where the state or the Ministry of Finance and this government could go. But when we figure out all the days of the year where state finances, the taxpayer's money runs out, we're powerless. Are we powerless, or are we incompetent, or are we closing our eyes? Interest for each year will be over a billion. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I am sure that everyone in the Republic of Slovenia knows what this means. Everybody can count. Our citizens and citizens are certainly aware of this every day when they have tables on the table, especially when they go to the counter and pay these bills. We can talk about pensions, so left and right, but our pensioners lose every year. This is a fact and therefore there is no need to be a financier. When we've been talking all day, and we're going to talk about the amendments at the next point, there's not even a hearing on my right. As if we do not live in Slovenia, as if we do not know the problems our citizens have. One of the mayors today wrote on the social network if the average is as small as the Finance Minister or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia suggests, the fact that there will be a lower standard of living in the municipality and poorer quality of life, both in municipalities and consequently in the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u139	Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, when we present the budget by the Government, we have heard more than once how this budget is development-oriented. Anyone who looks away at this budget makes it clear to him that the Government is providing relatively good support to the public sector. For me, I would say, the public sector, I do not see in the public sector the development vision of our country, in support of the public sector. I'd say I can't see it from this budget. A lot of government is negotiating, negotiating with the public sector, co-ordinated, and certain financial burdens fall in the second year. This is said to be a release for public sector spending to increase further. Nowhere, however, has there been strong and strong negotiations with the economy. I am surprised the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, that in fact in this preparation of the budget itself there was not even a hearing of their voice. Also in the media, I think it's pretty well run, it makes it feel like there's nothing wrong with the economy. I don't think so. Let's ask the independent entrepreneurs, let's ask the representatives of the real economy if it's really cool. I don't think it is, and with such a draft budget, and in 2016 it won't be good either. Much worse than 2015. Because I personally believe that development is safe to open up new investments and start up investments. Let's take a real look at the comparison. In 2015, investment was not over-invested for a good year, as Slovenia is on the tail of European countries with the biggest decline in construction activities. On the other hand, in 2015 we concluded the financial perspective 2007-2013, where the final deadline for the completion of all parts of December this year was. Because of this and because of the main or, I would say, a considerable amount of European funding, 2015 was as good as it was. If I look at the comparison for 2016, the Secretary of State correctly provided the information that the integral budget slightly increases investment funds, that is true. However, it did not say that investment in general with European funds in 2016 is less than 600 million. What does this mean for the Slovenian economy? This means that the economy will have fewer than 600 million jobs in 2016. This means that we have somehow taken the economy for over 600 million jobs. Why is there no such investment in 2016? This is because the government has not yet prepared projects and started a new financial perspective project, which started in 2014-2020. Where does the budget reflect the new financial perspective? Is there any draft new financial perspective in this budget? It's a bit of a fight. Very little. I do not see here any new financial perspectives 2014-2020. Since this is an investment decline in 2016, I would say that we have taken quite a share of the work away from the economy, I do not think that the revenue in the 2016 budget is actually assessed. This will show up very quickly next year, because we will get a new balance on the table very quickly. Revenues aren't what they're supposed to be. That'll be an explanation. We already know very clearly that they will not be like this. On the other hand, I don't know, the problem of the last three days, the biggest problem of the government, let's say how to find 132 million for the migrants we're going to need for next year. I expected the government to look for measures, and to bring measures to the table, so that we wouldn't need $120 million for the second year, but that we'd only need 30. The rest, however, will be measures to prevent and create conditions for addressing this major problem. Personally, I don't think security can be bought with money. I'm sure that's true. I expected action, but there are none in the budget. Many times and rightly today have been stressed: no amendment of the opposition will be taken into account. And I'm just going to give you a comparison. In 2016 it will be necessary to repay the principal, that is to say our debts and interest, 3.8 billion. However, an amendment of €140,000 is ready to expand the investigation into bank holes or to identify these irregularities. This is now the weight of the comparison. There's that part of the funds that basically went from all the banks, and we're going here not to say a handful of funds to investigate these irregularities, and so vehemently reject this amendment. The picture is to me, but I think it is also to all citizens, more than clear. Keep these bank irregularities closed, that's your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničar Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to the indications concerning the investment assets provided in 2016 and 2017. In the A-balance sheet of the 2016 budget, the total funds provided for investments and investment transfers amounting to EUR 804.6 million. In addition, additional funds are also provided in the B-balance sheet, if we add together both A- and B-balance, we will reach the number 1 billion 7 million in 2016, which are provided for investments and investment transfers. This information includes integral resources, earmarked funds and also European funds. By comparison, 876 million euros were provided for all investments in 2013, and investment transfers, of course. For 2017, 863 million funds and additional funds in B-billion are provided in A-billion, with a total amount of EUR 926.3 million. As we have already mentioned many times, integrative funds are being increased today, as well as earmarked funds for investment and investment transfers, while at the same time reflecting the change in the new financial perspective. The old financial perspective is being concluded and in the new financial perspective totals 438.7 million from cohesion funds for next year. Of this amount, the majority has already been allocated and 150.5 million remain on the government's Development Service and European Cohesion Policy items in order to allocate resources as soon as individual projects are ready. Some of these projects have already been discussed today by State Secretary Pirnatov in the field of health, and other projects prepared in this context or in the final stage of preparation are at the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has 25.9 million European funds in 2016 and 25.2 million in 2017, the Ministry of Infrastructure: 26.9 million in 2016 and 27.9 million in 2017, the Ministry of Environment and Space: 56.9 million in 2016 and 53.5 million in 2017, the Ministry of Labour: 65.9 million in 2016 and 53 million 800 in 2017, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport: 31.5 million in 2016 and 50.4 million in 2017. This data points to a new direction of the new financial perspective, which no longer provides the funds for expenditure defined by the budgetary classification as investment expenditure or investment transfers, but is intended for so-called softer investments, investments, quotations, people, knowledge and research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u142	Replica, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, let me rephrase and make a difference in our statements. I have not previously added that my estimate of over 600 million was from two sources, from a transport sector where all investments on the side of traffic and in the environment and space. So here's the difference between our data. And here's the main thing, or somehow, if I evaluate over my thumb, two thirds of all the investments in the state budget. It is true that there are more of these softer forms, but in these softer forms we are actually targeting more or less of the share, I would say, to the public sector. There is also a decrease in the specific resources that are indeed within the economic and operational framework from this point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the supplementary draft budget? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! This budget is not what we hoped it would be. Above all, in the light of the current crisis and the current situation we have in the Republic of Slovenia. And I will not talk, unlike some of my colleagues, about the congregations, enough has already been said about the average. I hope that the day the mayors say they will come to Ljubljana to point out this problem, that there will be as many as possible, because if we can spend money effectively anywhere, it can be in the municipalities. All the polls, all the public research, if you look at it, people trust the most in the local community, people trust the mayors the most. Because it is the mayors who give it at the beginning of their term or before their term of office, during a campaign, before a campaign of promises that people can then weigh whether they have made it or not. In short, mayors, representatives of local communities, are the ones who can show the most tangible. I hope it's not because the SMC didn't get any mayors, but this attitude towards the local communities of this Slovenia is not going to lead anywhere. I would like to place emphasis on this budget elsewhere. This is the budget we have dedicated to such a singing security in the last three days. Any representative of the country we have listened to, from the President of the State to the Prime Minister, to the President of Parliament, everyone has talked about security, how we must be aware of how we must be aware of potential terrorist threats. But we can't fight terrorism, we can't fight threats against security, we can't just fight words, we can't just fight democracy, but we have to fight with different means, with means that require more money for the military, for the police, for intelligence services. I thought something would change when an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly took place on our proposal when the President of the State came to Parliament and said clearly and loudly: "Two years in a row, I have already given a negative assessment of the Slovenian Army." So she's not as ready as she needs to be. Because it can't be any different for a budget like this, but we're going the same way. We have increased the defence budget by €5 million, and we have increased these €5 million because we have transferred a payment for international membership from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Defence. And when, I think, around 13 July this year, plus a minus day, in Slovenia, Secretary-General Nata Jens Stoltenberg told him, Prime Minister Miro Cerar, the defence budget will not go down in 2016, it will remain the same, and then 2017, 2018 and so on, it will gradually increase by 0.04%. And what happened? From 0.97 % in 2015 to 0.94 % in 2016. So, the Prime Minister of the Government lied to Secretary General Nate. I'm just wondering how he's gonna go to the top of Nate next time and how he's gonna justify his moves there, his lies. Because these are lies. He probably knew in July that this goal was not attainable, and yet he told him that we would, and we did not. Although the budget has gone up by 5 million, but who knows at least little about NATO knows that it is not nominal, but it is looking at what percentage of GDP you will give for defence. And we gave, we give practically at least, we're there in third place, and of that there's 2% for investments. However, the commitments are that we will give 2% by 2020. I wonder, Madam Secretary of State, in 2018, with such budgets as you accept, there is no fear that you will not be able to bring them together by 2018, at least as far as the budget is concerned, or with such forecasts when we see them in these two budgets, whether we will take this commitment into account, or whether we will carry it out because we signed it in black last year. That's the only answer I'd ask for. If you don't, send it up, tell me, we can't do this, don't count on us anymore. But we see what's going on in the world. France said it was at war today. In the days to come, we'll see what kind of war. This can also happen to the activation of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which means that Slovenia is also at war because an attack on a Member State of NATO is considered an attack on everyone. And with a situation like this that we have, which is due to the money that we spend, or better said, because of the money we don't spend, we're an uncreditable partner of the NATO Alliance. We're only saved by the numbers of soldiers we have on our missions. The three criteria measured in NATO are: soldiers on missions, the structure of the defence budget, especially in terms of investments, and height. We're on the first one as good as we're on, and we're on fire somewhere else. And at least don't talk about security, but when we see that we're doing something completely different than we're talking about. Many times, we have already said unanimously, members and members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, all say that these services are undernourished, that there is not enough money — and you give them some extra change and expect some preventive action against the events that took place in Paris. Meanwhile, we are launching a mass that these intelligence services are preventively controlling, without any problems across the border, including potential terrorists, as we saw on Friday. And it's high time it stopped. As President of the Defence Committee, I have proposed giving at least EUR 15 million more directly to the military, and you have refused to do so. However, you have probably heard all the Chiefs of General Staff of the Slovenian Army in order to at least slightly improve the situation, the Slovenian army would need 40 million more. You can probably see pictures of soldiers now putting up fences, one wearing old uniforms, one wearing new uniforms, one even wearing old uniform pants, the blouse have new ones. What kind of army is this? We can't even take care of the look. For these five million that you're increasing, which is not even on this account, we can't buy either boots or pants or anything. You're threatening the lives of soldiers with this budget because there's no money for basic equipment. Why don't you go see what kind of armor they've got? And that's what you keep alerting yourself to, four, five, six years. The army, the defense was 300 million euros. And after we've made one amendment to take away 15 million euros from the finance ministry on an item and put it here, it's a whole hallo. If the Ministry of Defence could have survived the crisis on the assumption that their budget has been cut by half, then the Ministry of Finance can also survive that 0.01%, as far as this is concerned. No one's gonna convince me that they can't. Since we have always talked about budgets for the coming years in this House, it has always been a defence. But they always used to go around painting with firefighters, with cops, with the military, but that's not how it's gonna work anymore. I hope that one day someone will ask someone for health because of these numbers, because it doesn't go on like that anymore. And not then say that security is the one that is the priority in this budget. Because whoever opens it and sees the numbers, sees it's not. I don't know if the Prime Minister had this security in mind or had safety in road traffic, but we also see how things are improving – 70% of roads are already practically in Slovenia, which are no longer able to provide security. But we're going to get our heads in the sand, so we're not going to do anything. Even where in the next few years, in the next perspective, there is no more money, not for a single diocese. She was 55 million, 40 years old. We don't have any more money for a project like this. We have so much that we can, in our own words, flick holes, but that's not it, because we all drive on roads, because we see what roads are like. It's because we Members are driving there when we see in practice what the situation is. It's not like we're gonna be able to get up there somewhere. Unfortunately, I cannot support such a budget and only sincerely hope, Madam Secretary of State, and all those who will support such a budget will not wonder when the situation will arise when, even in Slovenia, God forbid, security will no longer be self-evident, what the intelligence services have done or what those authorities have to do to protect us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u147	Yes, thank you for your word. This budget is based on neoliberal postulates and therefore increases the differences between the poor and the rich and we have therefore prepared several amendments in the United Left. However, the fiscal rule that the previous coalition has enshrined in the Constitution is much more stringent than the European Union's requirements. The current coalition has legislated this fiscal rule, without any social security guards or Slovenian culture, and there are two amendments to Slovenian culture. Therefore, in the United Left we propose to the budgets for both years of the 2 amendments in the field of culture and the reason is completely simple. Since 2009, cultural resources have decreased by more than €60 million. At that time, it was worth 204 million, and today it was about 145 million. And we can be surprised at this fall that culture has not collapsed more than this moment. And we can say that Slovenian culture breathes on gills. These cuts have reduced the quality and scope of the cultural offer and, above all, have exacerbated the economic situation of workers in culture. However, the huge incision was best felt again by the weakest, says the self-employed in culture and penitential workers. Cultural programs also suffer. In this budget, resources for the protection of cultural heritage are being reduced by up to 10 million. We are aware that this is not only the responsibility of the Ministry's temporary occupation, but we must be aware that such a reduction can have irreparable consequences for the movable and immovable cultural heritage, which is so rich in us. The reduction will make the situation of employees in public institutions more difficult, especially the implementation of programmes, and will result in less accessibility of cultural goods for all people in Slovenia. Therefore, we propose the first amendment to transfer at least one million euros to this item calls for the protection of cultural heritage. Of course, we always wonder where to get this money. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, they carry out activities with money that we consider to be unproductive or even harmful in terms of human well-being. More than two and a half million euro are also earmarked for offensive marketing of Slovenia as a location for foreign direct investment. So it's about promotional videos, advertising material and the like. For our understanding, this is not about promotional videos for Slovenia as a tourist destination or anything like that, it is easy to advertise Slovenia to potential investors because, of course, it is in the vast majority of the cost of money. We can rightly be skeptical of such potential effects of these activities in providing greenfield investments, especially since in practice the funds are often used to advise and establish contacts with foreign investors, which are a reminder of creating some controversial links with so-called locusts, is said to be foreign financial funds and large monopolistic companies that want to hide fairly fast and high profits by privatising Slovenian companies and Slovenian state-owned enterprises. For example, what can we write in such contributions? We can write that Slovenia is almost a tax oasis, that labour is cheap and that we will gladly further reduce human rights. Investors, as we would like, and I stress, investors as we wish are mainly interested in whether they have a motivated and educated workforce or operate in an environment that is stimulating and, above all, whether infrastructure is developed. So it is recklessly spent money that could be used much better to protect cultural heritage. With the second amendment, we want to increase the funds by at least EUR 800,000 on the art programme with the aim of increasing the Live Culture Programme. Because of the tightening of the belt, the situation of many is unrestrained, and the modest increase in funds for artistic projects and programmes for non-governmental producers can have a strong impact on both the quantity and the quality of art products and, of course, on the employment of self-employed and custodial workers in culture. In addition to the positive effects of cultural education and the development of cultural practices on society, living culture must also be seen as a positive investment, not only as an unnecessary cost, as the multiplier effects of investment in culture are known. Every euro invested in culture has often come back to a much greater extent. So the cultural heritage, which is empty and without content, is by no means as attractive as that of some living culture. For example, empty castles, an empty cultural heritage is boring if nothing happens there. That is why we can fill it with concerts, performances and any possible projects that attract people and offer some kind of integrated cultural experience. Therefore, it is not necessary to explain the positive effects for the whole place, both for tourist offers, accommodations, transports, agriculture and so on. Countries that raise cultural budgets in times of crisis also include Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Malta, Belgium and Austria, because they are aware that culture is a condition of quality living and that it also raises all other spheres of social life and, finally, has very positive economic effects. Culture in Slovenia is becoming increasingly flexible and paved industry. She's becoming more and more professional. And cultural workers are seen as some sort of romantic artists who can only live on praise, fame and media attention. We must also think of all NGOs that have come to the brink of survival and of all cultural institutions, of cultural heritage and of all those who work in culture. Therefore, fellow Members and fellow Members, I ask you not only to remain in principle in support of culture, but to support these two amendments by your vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Nevertheless, it is not so easy for me to understand why the Minister of Finance does not listen to us or does not follow us or why he is not here with us. Now I don't know if he likes to hear this debate because he already said in the introduction that he wants parliaments to do nothing with this budget, so that it doesn't change anything, or he's in some way ashamed of this product of this budget. Indeed, this budget, although so promised by the Minister of Finance, does not serve this hope and trust, which the public and ultimately other stakeholders and Members of Parliament have placed on the Minister of Finance. Somewhere in one newspaper, you'll read the news titled Minister Marble kills the middle class. The Minister of Finance has one key measure every year. That's the budget. And if the Minister of Finance is not man enough to defend his budget here from Members, then I really wonder what the task of the National Assembly is, what are we doing here. What we are doing with our amendments, which are numerous, regardless of which side they come from, provide some additional perspective or some additional perspective on some development policy of the country in the coming period. If you look at this budget, you will find that we have three branches of authority – executive, legislative and judicial. Minister Marble takes one – legislative, us. The court adds 3.3% and takes us 2%. And even though he's taken from us, he comes here before us, and in the introduction he says, "I warn you, don't accept any amendments." And the coalition eats it up peacefully. The opposition cannot swallow this because in a normal country Parliament has something to say about it. But the coalition is silent. See, here in this budget, we read, inter alia, that in the coming year, the country will be dealing with an increase in capital shares, so that it will invest 200 million more in taxpayers' money in the purchase of shares in companies. This is probably in the style of changing the ZUKSB that the country will now have two holding companies to increase state assets. This also means that it has completely reversed its course of action, that the sale of state shares is no longer and, now and increasingly, is state ownership, that they are dropping into their structures infected personnel from the former bank hole and then Pilate's wash of hands, if we do not decide in any way, it is corporate governance. And again, interestingly, you will rarely meet the minister to be prepared to comment on this. He's not here, leaving a secretary of state who has no political background or weight to talk about. Then, with some document, he tells us that in 2017 we will invest another 100 million. All those commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia with State aid and the nationalisation of banks to cover the bankruptcy of banking crime will now be further financed by taxpayers to invest in the purchase of shares in companies. And look, there's nothing I can do about it. Also today's debate, already in the previous part, I have discussed the investigation of the bank hole through the Parliamentary Investigative Commission and the fact that we agreed unanimously in the Parliamentary Investigative Commission, i.e. the coalition Members, that they needed professional assistance, the State Secretary also said on the Committee on Finance that it was self-evident that they needed professional assistance. And then when we get to the part where this expertise needs to be provided, it's all of a sudden: my dears, don't accept any amendments. Do not provide financial resources for professional assistance. Let's keep 5 billion unexplored. This is the only investigative commission that has been able to get into the National Assembly for 40,000 pages of documents. And when, perhaps only after a while, with some normal court decision, I am sure that we will obtain the remaining 60,000 pages of documents from the biggest hole in the country, from the New Ljubljana Bank, it is likely that professional assistance will be needed today, and perhaps this professional assistance should also be paid and it is interesting to monitor this change of enthusiasm over the investigation of the bank hole when it comes to actually starting to investigate, and the hands will rise. You know, today the coalition MPs hit me on the shoulder, and they said, "What are you going to look at these credit cards, and that's really not necessary." You pick something and you search it. Yeah. You know, then it's a political investigation committee. You choose something and you reveal it. However, if you want a substantively supported investigative commission, you need adequate staff, appropriate professional assistance to enable it. And let's say the difference in budgets between that original and the renewed proposal is that we find here at the Government's Communications Office an additional 125 000 euros to support the functioning of the government. So, to support the functioning of the Government, there is no problem with €125 000, and in order to provide professional support to the parliamentary investigative commission, and in the end, we have been elected, but not. And another 93 000 euros for the operation of FURS, a total of just over €210,000 for the tax campaign. Thus, the tax campaign, which according to the Ministry of Finance, brings around EUR 50 million in additional revenue, is easily found. For a bank hole where EUR 5 billion has disappeared, which is a hundred times more than the Government or the Minister of Finance intends to gain through this campaign – the campaign makes no sense at all or does not matter, because, as we know, the purpose is different – but no. For those less money, 150 000 euros is impossible. Even so, it is impossible for the Minister to warn you, do not accept, do not support the amendments. And now put yourself in the role of taxpayer who has paid and paid to Slovenian banks for banking criminality inside and outside. And now the Ministry of Finance and the apparently ruling coalition also deny him that the electorates of the people we are here on their behalf could, with the help of professional support, do everything in our power to bring the story to the bottom. No, no, no. No, no, no. There's a difference between 24. 4. When the coalition MPs were happy to press the button that you gave the mandate to the commission of inquiry, after the actual arrival of 40,000 documents in the National Assembly, when something might actually be discovered, they found, Oops, no, look, but now our will is, with that vote to go over what we would do with the credit maps, new challenges lie ahead. And the longer we wait to discover a 5-billion-dollar hole, less desire and less energy, and the momentum will be to detect it. More than desire to stop talking about the matter, a better starting point will be created for a new bank hole. You've already taken the first step. At the head of SDH you appointed one of the actors during the period of the formation of this bank hole. We're waiting for the next one. After some media reports that some of these gold bank teams are supposed to be at the head of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank. In Parliament, the legislative branches of the government, however, the distinguished Secretary of State, the distinguished Minister who is not here, deny you the possibility of a quality execution of this investigation. And if there is still assurance on the Committee on Finance, look, we will not support this amendment, but we will provide the money for it, and today this is significantly lower and the day after day will be even lower. And then you hope that the members of the commission of inquiry will raise our hands and say, yes, look, it can't be done. We won't. We will continue to work, just to assure you that the quality of this product and the extent to which the Commission of Inquiry will carry out is in linear correlation with the professional assistance we will receive in this regard. And how much of this we will get, but, honourable Members, it is only up to us not from the Government. From you – whether you follow the instructions of the Ministry of Finance that you have coats in your eyes and that you do not support anything the opposition proposes, or whether you will consider with your head and with that voice you gave 24. 4. In order to establish an investigative commission, you have also acted to provide funds for the investigative commission. This vote will actually test Parliament's sovereignty and the thinking of coalition Members, even though they are members of the coalition with their heads, because we see this launch of the Minister of Finance, and it will be up to us whether Parliament plays its part or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance has the floor, Ms Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that, again today. First of all, I must respond to the indications concerning the provision of security or how we address security in this draft budget. All security-related services or financial plan proponents are increasing to all the financial plans or the available rights of use of integral resources for 2016 and 2017, much more than for other budgetary users. Following a decision by the Government, the main increase is allocated to the Ministry of the Interior, where an increase of 20.66% is based on this year's balance sheet and 118% for 2017. The military, or Ministry of Defence, is an increase of 2.25 and 2.66% and the intelligence service, when Mr Mahnic mentioned it, 3.89 and 6.80 in 2017. The issue of security is addressed within the framework of budgetary options and also within the framework of what our international commitments are. However, it should be borne in mind that the defence expenditure under the methodology is not only the budget of the Ministry of Defence but also other expenditure. Due to the lack of time, I cannot devote more detail to this, but I can continue to do so. Secondly, as regards the increase in state assets, it is the funds reserved to enable the State to actively participate in the restructuring process and thus ensure the possibility of a new economic start-up. With regard to the means of the Commission of Inquiry, I repeat once again; there is no doubt that every investigative commission set up by the National Assembly needs and needs to be provided with resources for work. However, our assessment is that, within the available resources of the National Assembly, EUR 23.4 million for 2016, these rights are sufficient and can also be provided in this context by means of funds for the investigative commission concerned. If these resources are not sufficient during the implementation of the budget, we will provide the necessary resources in cooperation with the General Secretariat of the National Assembly. As for the minister's opening statement, when he advised or warned about the consequences that the adoption of individual amendments might have, and this – details of why amendments are problematic – I also mentioned in one of my own discussions. They're interfering with assets that can't be tampered with. And second. Why do you want a government representative present if he is unable to give an opinion, is it appropriate or is it not appropriate to support an individual amendment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Ange Logar, please. A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you. I'd have a replica. See, as regards the provision of additional resources, sufficient resources are available in the budget of the National Assembly. However, the 2016 budget takes an additional 500 000 euros to the National Assembly. So, you're taking quite a amount, 2% of the total budget, and then you say, "Well, you still have additional funds for the parliamentary commission of inquiry," while they're in the previous year, in 2015 [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Finally, what has been said about the fact that the representative of the Government cannot discuss and express his position and argue his position is incorrect. This is not the task of the Secretary of State, it is the task of someone else, but I note that the Government has announced an hour of time for commenting on the 2016 budget, and the Minister was not here to explain that position of his introductory debate. Look, there's no point in you talking like that here. He had no choice, no one forced him not to come, or he stopped him from coming and saying it. However, it is unfair for a government representative to make it clear to those who want this explanation that we are obstructing something. There are too many government officials in this national council. And you are now in charge of the meeting of the National Assembly, and all such discourses should be warned of by those who do so without permission and without proper authority. If it's a government representative or a minister, it's the same thing. It's not fair what government officials allow. The Minister would have come here easily. We have a budget announcement all day. The schedule of the National Assembly is well known for a long time, and we will be here all day tomorrow, and even tomorrow you can explain these incorrect statements about the adoption of the amendments. If any amendment had been improperly tabled, it would have been irrelevant. None of the amendments tabled are like that. Not one! And if the representative of the Minister of Finance says that matters are incorrect and that we are not allowed to explain the position, then the position is incorrect. We want an argument for that. And in these debates, we have repeatedly said this that there is a lack of argument on the part of those who say this. The Prime Minister of the Government said some fairy tales, the minister behind him, the second part of the story. And they've both left and no one's been here for eight hours, 10 hours. And I suggest that you warn the government representatives to refrain from such comments, which do not have any basis either in the Rules of Procedure or in the communication of the Government with the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničar Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. If I am not mistaken, the Rules of Procedure give me, as Secretary of State, the power to represent the Ministry and the Government in the absence of the Minister. However, if not the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is certainly the law which defines the function of Secretary of State. As regards the arguments on correctness or incorrectness of the amendments, for 2016, I said that the proposed amendments at least amount to €92.3 million increase the deficit, i.e. by 0.23% of GDP and by $142.3 million or 0.35% of GDP for 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u158	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Procedural proposal, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I'd suggest you tell the government. If any of the amendments tabled by our parliamentary group or New Slovenia or any other opposition parliamentary group were to break the balance, they would be obliged to define it as irrelevant or inappropriate. It's a rule in the National Assembly. This could also be said by the Government at the meeting that this amendment is one and the same. With none of the amendments tabled, the government has said so. And now to say that if some amendments were adopted, this would mean an increase of €92 million, it would not be true, because the Government still has the power in the Budget Implementation Act to redistribute 20%, if I say so simply, of the budget. And it is unworthy that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance or the Minister or anyone who says that these amendments are inappropriate or irregular. They are all duly submitted and comply with all the rules for the application of amendments. They are balanced, they write where and where they can be taken, and the balance is equal to nothing, and directly these amendments do not increase the deficit by half a cent. Because otherwise we couldn't be invested. And I think that it is very unfair for the Members of the National Assembly to listen to such discussions here. You had the opportunity on the committee, you had the opportunity to say everywhere that these amendments were incorrect and incorrectly submitted, to identify themselves with them, and no government has identified itself as being so tabled, as the Secretary of State has now said. She didn't say that about any of them. Look at the government's opinion on the amendments tabled, and you'll see. And what I said is absolutely true, 100% is true. And in this way doing business in the National Assembly is inappropriate at all, because it is a matter of state officials of the highest rank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. She's a magician who signed up for the word. Matthew Vraničar Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u161	I'm gonna repeat what I said. Legally, they are correctly filed, but in substance they constitute an increase in the deficit, and I stand for this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally, because you no longer have time, but a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u163	I now propose, Madam President, that you obtain the Government's opinion on the amendments tabled to confirm what the Secretary of State has said. We can only speak here on the basis of documents, relevant documents. I said earlier that the government had given a definition to the amendments and not a single amendment, but 45 of them had been tabled, and it didn't say that it was increasing the deficit for any of them. Now it is necessary to ask whether the Government does not know what it is doing or whether the Secretary of State has taken more than the Government has decided. It has to be decided. You run a session and determine which things are right. Or the opinion of the Government which it adopted at its meeting or the opinion of the Secretary of State? There are also two opinions on the same thing government representatives cannot have. I suggest you decide which version of the documents is correct or oral, what the Secretary of State says, or what the Government is in a written opinion. This is crucial for further discussion, because otherwise we will get involved in these interpretations and the household, kitchen calculations of state officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The government has also identified itself to the amendments in writing and today at the meeting, so that we can continue. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget will be held within half an hour following the end of the 37th item of the agenda, in accordance with the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude this debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. They shall be transferred to the budgetary user 1211 of the National Assembly and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the activities of the National Assembly and the amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? [[advertising from the hall]] Sorry, your time's up. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. The amendment, however, has already been presented in previous discussions. However, the fact is that we have set up a commission to investigate banks in the National Assembly, the scope of work is extremely large, and also in fact, if we are doing a comparison with other countries facing such problems, even more extensive teams of experts for each area have been established so that they can then come to individual conclusions. From these replies and the debates that have been presented so far, it was possible to agree, yes, including the National Assembly, to provide this money through the reallocation of funds, but with such broad support, which the Commission has not yet experienced in the final stage of the vote as to whether the Commission is set up or not, it would nevertheless be more appropriate for us as Members and Members to decide and provide this additional money to the National Assembly to carry out this extremely important and difficult work. There is also something to be said from a substantive point of view in this amendment and in the work of the Commission. If it turns out that the procedures that have been taken to take on excessive obligations under the rehabilitation of banks have been carried out, this means, of course, the budgetary burden. For as much interest as we now pay, there will be no need to pay. The effect of this amendment and the work of the Commission can be extremely positive, and it is not necessary to ask too much in terms of content, whether it is accepted or not. It would certainly be a good sign that we are aware that the possible financial and economic crisis in Slovenia has been artificially created at the level that we are actually meeting in official documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Financial Alignment to the municipalities and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1714 – Police and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Public Order and General Security of People and Property and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Advertising from the hall]] Unfortunately, you've spent, or you've already explained your amendment in the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1811 – Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for development cooperation and international assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 1714 – the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the debate on the amendment tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Operation of the SDS Group for Protection, Rescue and Assistance and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Preparedness of the SDS Group's protection, rescue and assistance system and amendment. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking for peace in the hall. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 – The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the two amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, one amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and five amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2550 – Ministry of Environment and Space and to a debate on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme for energy production and development of energy networks and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. First, I am putting forward the sub-programme Water Management and the two amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2551 – the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and to a discussion on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Monitoring the state of the environment and hydrological activity and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the debate on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the Sub-programme Training and Education and the Amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme of the Fellowship and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2613 – the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on Labour Management and Control and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 2711 – Ministry of Health and debate on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes with the budgetary user. First, I am putting investment investments at the primary level and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors into the discussion. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Investments at the secondary and tertiary level and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes, including the budgetary user. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme for young researchers, mobility and incentives to the best researchers and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Activity of Higher Education and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport infrastructure and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture and discussion on the amendments tabled by two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and librarian activity and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Arts Programmes and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 3341 – The archive of the Republic of Slovenia and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Editing the system and supporting activities in the field of archiving and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4215 – the District Court in Celje and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Judicial Disputes of Support Activities and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4216 – the District Court in Cyprus and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 4217 – District Court in Kranj and to debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Judicial Disputes of Support Activities and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 4218 – District Court in Ljubljana and to debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 4219 – Maribor District Court and the debate on the proposed amendment to this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 4220 – District Court in Murska Sobota and to debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4221 – the Regional Court in Nova Gorica and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4222 – the New Town District Court and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4223 – the District Court in Krske and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 4224 – District Court on Ptuj and to debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 4225 – District Court in Slovenj Gradec and to debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 4230 – the District Court in Ljubljana and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Alternative Settlement of Disputes, Support Activities and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude this debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget will be held within half an hour following the end of the 37th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude this debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I also interrupt today's meeting and continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much for your cooperation, and I wish everyone a good night.
