ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u1	Nice greeting, fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Minister! I'm about to proceed with the seventh session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Ksenija Rootjak Kramar, Violeta Tomić from 15:00 on, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 12:00 on, Urška Ban from 16:00 on, Dr. Milan Brglez, Matjaž Germany, Matjaž Hanžek, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Jan Mahnic, Andrej Chuš. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – This is first of all a proposal for a law amending the law on student food subsidies. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Tomaž Lisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u2	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister with the team, present colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings! The Law on Student Food Subsidisation was adopted 13 years ago and has been amended several times. I will say a little more about individual solutions during the debate that, for the first time, those who first encounter this situation get a little bit more historical feeling. In addition to the law, the right of students to subsidise student diets, their beneficiaries and the methods and criteria of subsidisation are regulated in more detail by the Regulation in this field. What about the law before us? It is a very simple proposal and it is quoted as saying: "The proposed amendment changes the time interval for the financing of student food subsidies so that subsidised meals can be provided by 22 hours instead of 20 hours. Hours." So with the bill we do not break any system, so today the arguments of all those who oppose this law, that the law is not of a systemic nature, are not at all possible. The basic objective of subsidising student diets is throughout history a warm, healthy meal of students per day. Every student has one meal a day. Therefore, the main solution is to change the law only by establishing a new cashing interval for student food subsidies, no more and no less. However, there are several important facts and reasons why we have proposed this law in the SDS and why we believe that your support is also needed. Two key: Bologna study program and students' demands. In line with the needs of students after a warm meal, especially due to the extension of the pedagogical process also during the evening and the required greater presence in lectures and exercises, it is possible to extend the use of student food subsidies. According to some universities and their members, there are quite a few study programmes that carry out lectures and exercises by 8 p.m. and later. This means that some students are prevented from using a student voucher after the end of the study process. The third important reason why we tabled the law is that the bill has no financial implications for the state budget. Well, it has a positive impact on the state budget if students don't eat at all, but the state has to give the student a warm meal a day. Of course, with this positive solution for the state budget, so that students do not eat, and the negative solution for the budget of students or their families, no one would worry, nor for the health of students, which is one of the main motives why the Government does not support this law. Another negative issue is the lower consumption of student vouchers – at least how many Ljubljana and Maribor food establishments from those fastfoods to eminent restaurants would not survive without a visit to the student population. Although students often complain that these restaurants and these food establishments are treated as second-rate citizens only because they have a student certificate. Well, at least that's what we understand in SDS what it means if you feel second-rate at least occasionally. The last reason we think this marriage is necessary. This government and this coalition are clearly against traineeship solutions, apprenticeships and the like. Obviously, it is also against this law, which according to the government's opinion is based on completely flawed findings, but more on them then in the debate. Health is a mess, and the government is worried about student health for once. Dear Government, where were you when the Bologna system was introduced, which kept students in classrooms for days, or other extremes, for example, when students sit in the classroom for a few hours in the morning, then they are free for up to 8 hours, walking through Ljubljana, and in the evening they have a study program again. How's that commercial going? You're hungry. Unfortunately, not all students have the opportunity to stay or sleep in Ljubljana, but the spatial, especially financial, pressure forces them on the way home, and this government also makes it impossible for them to use student vouchers at this late hour. Look at the campuses abroad, not just the student diet, but a lot of other things are taken care of. When we propose more sports education in the SDS, so in health care – will you also be in favour? The law is therefore only a pebble in the mosaic of matters where practice has rejected legal matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! As we have heard from the explanation of the bill's proposal, it is essential to amend the law by extending the offer, subsidising student diet, so that subsidised meals can be offered from 8 a.m. to 22 p.m. instead of 8 a.m. to 20 p.m. The proposed amendment would, in the opinion of the applicants, achieve that the beneficiaries of the subsidised student diet would benefit from this in spite of the extension of the teaching process and the increased required presence in lectures and exercises. In the opinion of the applicant, this is not currently possible because of the latter, and therefore it also proposes a daily extension of the two-hour offer. I am pleased that after three years of introducing this amendment, the proposer notes that this is a terrible intervention in the rights of students and that over the last three years the study time, the burden has increased dramatically. And that's what's necessary right now. The current offer of student food subsidies is set out in Article 7, paragraph 4, which states that it is subsidised from 8 to 20 hours. Students have longer obligations, but never in my career at the Faculty of Social Sciences had a 12-hour continuous obligation to be present in the teaching process. Also, the issue of health, the warm meal that has been exposed, at least the guidelines make it clear that eating in the late evenings is, of course, far from being very healthy and urgently necessary. We've got 550 student food providers on the list. This year the tendering conditions are changing, so the water is inside, in short, fruit instead of sweets, precisely because it is striving for a healthy diet. So we're definitely looking forward to it. This extension from 20 to 22 hours is certainly not necessary from this point of view in order to provide them with a healthy and warm meal. Financially, too, if you say the law has no financial implications – in a letter sent to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities 20. 6. In 2013, it calculated that the extension of the duration of use of the subsidised student diet from 20 to 22 hours would have a public financial impact of EUR 1.2 million. However, as has already been said, this increase is indeed difficult to assess. And even if the assessment of the Student Organisation is not entirely accurate, it is nevertheless quite clear that the budgetary resources for the purpose of the subsidised student diet should be increased in concrete terms when the bill is adopted. The bill states that the bill will have no effect on public finances of more than €40,000. The subsidised student diet can be used for 11 months and if in these 11 months only 50 students throughout Slovenia would benefit further from the subsidised student diet between 20 and 22 hours, the increase in public finances would already be more than €40 000. So even if less than one student promo actually benefited from a subsidised student diet, not all students enrolled, it would have added value to the student diet in those two hours, it would have already exceeded your calculated €40,000. But do we hope that a subsidised student diet at that interval would benefit more than just all existing beneficiaries? In view of all the above, the Government considers that in the situation in which we are extending from 20 to 22 hours to the right which is given, and it is right that there is, of course, it is not necessary that it does not bring any substantial added value, that it is not linked to the fact that the students are not now allowed hot meals within the 12 hours available to them. That's how I really don't see any reason to support this marriage. This is one of the changes that was also defined at the time of the ZUJF, and it would be interesting then to listen to what was behind it and lead you to reduce it from 20 to 22. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Initially, I would like to remind you that the dictatorship is now a valid article, namely that the possible offer of subsidised student meals only up to 20 hours was made on the initiative of the proposer of this law. If I light up a little bit more. It was a matter of amending the Student Nutrition Subsidisation Act as part of the austerity measures summarised in the Public Finance Balance Act. It is true that Desus was part of the then coalition under your tactics at the time of the adoption of this law, and so did we. At certain points, the Supersecration Act has already fallen from a constitutional point of view. This time, with today's amendment to the Student Nutrition Subsidisation Act, you break a piece of the super-sparing law on your own. Given that this is the so-called Savings Act, it is logical to conclude that the 20th hour limit on meals had a positive public financial impact, although no specific figure had been given at that time, how much savings would have been made in the Republic of Slovenia by limiting the use of student vouchers. With regard to the bill under consideration today, the applicant argues that there are no public financial consequences. Parading with such loving laws, when you don't even show all the facts, is kind of unacceptable. I should also mention that in 2014 there was a recent amendment to the Student Food Subsidisation Act. At the time, a proposal was submitted by the Student Organisation of Slovenia for an extension of the hour for the use of student vouchers. At that time, the SDS Group did not adopt this proposal from the Student Organisation and did not propose an amendment to that group. In the Desus Group we will reject further consideration of this bill. We are aware that the public financial consequences for our taxpayers are not negligible. The proposer denies them, but it must be said that only a two-hour extension of the use of vouchers will bring a 1.2 million euro budget manoeuvring. Furthermore, the arguments put forward by the applicant that students should remain hungry because the study process does not allow them to eat their meals during the day or can not even eat their lunch until eight o’clock in the evening. The study process at any of the colleges or higher vocational schools does not last continuously for 12 hours. The Higher Education Act lays down standards for the burden of students. Thus, the postgraduate study programmes comprise at least 20 and a maximum of 30 hours of lectures of seminars and exercises per week and 30 weeks per year. Even if the study programme contains practical training, the overall burden of the student must not exceed 40 hours per week and 42 weeks per year. A proper healthy diet is supposed to mean eating the last meal around 6 p.m. This is another reason why we do not extend the subsidisation of food from public resources to as late as proposed, namely, the country has a duty to take care of the health of its citizens. Our position on the proposed amendments to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation is, as has already been said, negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for an amendment to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation submitted by the opposition SDS to the National Assembly. There are doubts about the sincere purposes of the applicants, but it is they who are the authors of the regime they now want to change. In the spirit of austerity measures, a new student diet system was introduced via the ZUJF, which limited the use of student vouchers. At the time of the adoption of the ZUJF, the argument of the Student Organisation, which opposed the amendment, was then overheared, being used today as the main argument of the amendment of the law. The proposal, which was previously advocated and defended, is now referred to as unfair, unjust and unfair. The constant work on proposals, which are designed to address current political needs rather than the needs of people, is unproductive. When you're in a position, you can promise anything, but unfortunately, those candy bars would get stuck in the throat knowing what the price would have to be paid for it. In this case, as calculated by the Student Organisation, it is estimated that even EUR 1.2 million. Where are we gonna get them? We're going to cut kiddie supplements or we're going to cut into primary school lunch subsidies. Social Democrats say no. We fully agree with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which notes with regard to the allegations that the study process does not last continuously for 12 hours, as long as hours are available daily for the use of student vouchers. We too believe that students should not have classes or practice continuously from 8 to 20 hours, so they should have time for lunch where they benefit from student vouchers. The motioners' claim that the law will have no effect on public finances of more than €40 000 is another proof of transposition. The public financial implications are estimated at EUR 1.2 million, as has already been said. Although this is an over-the-finger assessment, because the true value is difficult to assess, it is nevertheless quite clear that the budgetary resources for this purpose should be increased in concrete terms. Anyway, let me get this straight. Students, because of this, if the law is not passed, will be no worse than they are today, but they could make the situation of someone else worse on the basis of this law, and we will not agree to it by the Social Democrats. We will not support the resolution of the proposed law. We will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u10	Madam President, thank you for your word. Today we have a proposal to extend the possibility of using a student diet from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m., which we will support in the United Left. The proposal was tabled by the opposition SDS. I would like to point out to the proposaler the duality practiced by the SDS. It is the SDS that prepared the infamous attack on workers, students and pensioners, known as the Public Finance Balance Act, ZUJF. The then government of John Janša boasted that it had saved 460 million euros. That, in fact, it has caused more than €700 million of damage to the economy, that budget revenues have been properly reduced and that it has deepened the second recession, of course, it is preferable to remain silent. So it saved the minus that hit us today, but at the same time, the quality of the public good has suffered a great blow, with all the citizens and all the citizens. These measures should therefore be aimed at saving, but in reality they are only a cover for redistribution of social wealth and power from the working class, ordinary people, 99%, if you want, for the benefit of those richest and for the benefit of capital. Three years after the disaster, the ZUJF, when the consequences of the deepening of poverty and the destruction of the public sector are worse, is signed by the government of Mir Cerar under these anti-social policies with great enthusiasm. In this she is a worthy heir to her predecessor, Alenka Bratušek. Public Administration Minister Boris Koprivnikar has already announced how, by now, temporary austerity measures must become permanent, how structural reforms must become. But let's be honest. The entire political establishment from the right to the left is consistently voting for saving, regardless of what mask it is behind and what phrases it is hiding behind. In the story of belt tightening, there is also a restriction on student diet. The then government of Janez Janša remained blind and deaf to all arguments, and here too did harm and injustice when the student diet was limited to 8 p.m. Whether it is today’s proposal for a demagogic move or a pouring of ashes, everyone will be judged. In the United Left we will support it this time because it is a measure which would otherwise modestly improve the situation of students and students. But little advanced things have never really solved anything, and so today's proposal does not solve the student problem. In order to achieve this, we need systemic changes, not just like candy, especially by those who have cut the most deeply into the public higher education system and shed the most blood on it. The quality of education is directly linked to the quality of life of all citizens and citizens, and the regulation of the field of students needs to start right in higher education. For us in the United Left, this means, for the first time, full funding of public, accessible and free higher education at all levels of study. Secondly, the abolition of the privileges of academic Mandarins or privileged elites and the end of the exploitation of the young academic prairies. Thirdly, the abolition of feudal relations at the university and its democratisation. Let the university be decided by those who are really affected and their interest is also in the public interest. First of all, they must be students, and certainly not regime bureaucrats and profiteer academics, such as the situation today. However, such quality education does not serve its purpose if students are unable to really engage in it, or it takes place under unequal conditions. If, when we enter higher and higher education levels, we do not ensure equalization of inherited property conditions, the university only reproduces and strengthens unfair social relations. This is the situation today and the measures taken by public education, which favour private education and which go hand in hand with academic elites, make this situation worse. In the United Left, we stand firm for education that contributes to public interest, reduces social inequality, and meritocratically allows an individual to make his or her life's happiness independent of wealth. Reorganisation of work and social security is therefore a second set, essential for regulating the situation of students. This means, for the first time, ensuring a sufficient number of high-level scholarships for all who need them and for the second time, the abolition of the exploitative fine student work and the student services that are fueled by it. Under these two conditions, students are no longer required to work for bare survival, but the first task of the student is to study. However, it still has the possibility of being included in other forms of work according to its own wishes and needs. The proposed law refers to all the topics mentioned above; it is only a trifle in regulating the issue of students and their social situation. Since this will improve for the students, we will support the proposal. Above all, we need to broaden our focus and ask ourselves what kind of education or more specific higher education we want. And here our answer is clear: quality, public and accessible to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u12	Dear President, Honourable Minister with the Minister's team, colleagues and fellow Members! Proposals for a new law on subsidising student diet propose extending the term for the use of the subsidised diet from 20 p.m. to 22 p.m. According to some universities and their members, there are quite a few study programmes that carry out lectures and exercises up to 20 hours and longer. After the current law, this means that some students are prevented from using subsidised student diet. The Christian Democrats will support this proposal. In doing so, we are considering why the law should regulate and limit the time-limit for the use of student vouchers. Students and students have grown up as single persons, and we believe that they will be the ones to assess when they need a warm meal during the day. Because each person is at a different pace in his life. This is a difficult path, since it requires much more input from the family and the country into education, education and information on healthy nutrition, and requires example from older people, on the other hand it can have positive consequences both for quality of life and for the health system. Christian Democrats support solutions to ensure that only those providing healthy, integrated meals are included in the student diet and that fast, unhealthy food providers are excluded from this offer. As we can learn from the document, the guidelines for healthy nutrition for students commissioned by the Ministry of Health in 2008 for the purposes of regulating subsidised student diet, we can conclude from quantitative and qualitative studies on the eating habits and lifestyle of the people of Slovenia that the state of nutrition of young people and adults in Slovenia is worrying. Available research on diet shows that the diet of the Slovenian population is unhealthy. The average population of Slovenia does not eat the recommended number of daily meals, rhythm or diet is inadequate, the energy value of meals consumed is too high, there is too little fruit and vegetables on the menu. Christian Democrats believe that the responsible ones will ensure that a high standard of student nutrition is maintained and we will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group The Alliance of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Mrs Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Group of Members and Members of the SDS Party with a new Law on Student Food Subsidisation proposes to extend student diet subsidies so that meals can be offered by 2 p.m. instead of 20 p.m. In doing so, the applicants want to ensure that the beneficiaries of the subsidised student diet can benefit from this despite the extension of the educational process and the increased participation required in lectures and exercises. As we know, the restriction was that subsidised rations can be offered from 8 to 20 hours, introduced in 2012 by an infamous Public Finance Balance Act, namely the ZUJF. This amendment to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation was just one of the changes between the few ten laws in which the ZUJF intervened. The Law on Student Food Subsidisation provided that, pending the amendment referred to in Article 7, beneficiaries have the right to one subsidised meal for each working day. For Saturdays and weeks, the beneficiaries shall, in the event that they are carrying out study obligations in accordance with the study programme, demonstrate this by means of a certificate issued by educational institutions. With ZUJF, however, we limited the right to subsidised meals for the duration of student holidays. Thus, they are no longer entitled to subsidised meals from 15 July to 15 August. We did not object to the last fiscal measure because it did not affect the number of beneficiaries to subsidise student diet. It was a reasonable and rational measure. At the same time, as already mentioned, the ZUJF also established that subsidised meals can only be offered between eight and twenty hours. Members and members of the Alliance were then reminded of the futility of such a ban, but the Government, as a proponent in the chaotic process of addressing the bill and deciding on a few hundred additional amendments, could not give us an understandable explanation. However, it appears that we have received it in the opinion of the current government. Let me quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is looking for a healthy diet and a healthy diet. Eating lunch after 20 hours is contrary to healthy eating. If students were given the opportunity to benefit from a subsidised student diet after 20 hours, they would probably be able to take advantage of some of this possibility and there would also be cases where students would prefer to take an evening meal instead of a daily meal or on certain days to benefit from both a daily meal and an evening meal." In the Alliance, on the basis of the opinion of the current government, we conclude that the SDS party in 2012 was probably not the author of a meaningless ban for us and that it was the idea of the professional services of the competent ministry that prepared the amendments to Article 7 of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. While we welcome the concerns of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for a healthy diet, the Alliance welcomes them. However, in this regard, we point out that there are different opinions in the professional public, some recommend that it is not after 6 p.m. or after 20 p.m., others argue that the last meal should be taken from two to three hours before bedtime, which means that those hours are not relevant at all. Otherwise, the profession also has different opinions on the diet composition of evening meals and could list them. We would like to point out that this is no longer a compulsory school for children who do not have the job skills or the adult youth, but for already emancipated young adults. Although we do not want to continue to develop theories on early adulthood and self-reliance on this goal. However, there is a claim that if a country or institutions and organisations in which a person systematically takes a decision to do so, we cannot talk about the fact that it will learn to make a responsible decision. Let me quote a very snarky and well-known quote: "Responsibility is like a muscle if we don't train it, wrap it up or don't develop at all." Otherwise, in the Alliance, we would like to point out that the so-called soft paternalism, which is trying to change the individual's behaviour with warnings, is acceptable to us and a better solution than a ban or a command. For these reasons, we will support the bill. If the law continues to be discussed, we will, by supplementing that prohibition, try to fully eliminate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will be presented by Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u16	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have before us a bill regulating the right of students to subsidised student diet and the way and the criteria for its subsidisation. The main purpose of the amendment is to extend the use of subsidised food for students from 20 p.m. to 22 p.m. In this introduction, let us recall that it was the proponents who, in 2012, with the Public Finance Balance Act, time-limited the use of student nutrition, at that time with the aim of ensuring sustainable public finances and reducing budgetary expenditure. In the SMC Group, we support the right of students to a subsidised diet, as it is based on the aim of allowing all unemployed students to lower their costs of study and better nutrition during the study process, thus affecting better quality studies. We also estimate that the current system, irrespective of the 2012 subsidy changes, is good and enables students to have a warm and healthy meal a day, which is also the main purpose of subsidising student nutrition. Finally, Slovenia has an excellent system for subsidising student nutrition compared to other European countries. And it's the right thing to keep it that way. In this way, in the Group of Members, we assess that the rules in force are appropriate. However, a slightly deeper look needs to be taken at the change that the applicants want to make. Firstly, the bill does not provide for any budgetary implications which would result in a temporary extension of the use of subsidised student diet. Secondly, it should be recalled that the measure of the time limit on the use of food, inter alia, has led to the fact that a large proportion of subsidies were used at night when most restaurants are not operating. Students thus served fast food, which is not the main purpose of subsidisation. Even today, in the face of this change that is ahead of us, we need to consider the healthy aspect of our students' nutrition and eating habits. We are aware that students are time-consuming and that the educational process sometimes lasts until evening hours. However, we believe that, at the current time interval, the right to a subsidised diet can be ensured smoothly, since the study process does not continue for more than 12 hours. Thus, we believe that it is necessary to continue with the applicable arrangements based on the provision of a warm and, in particular, healthy daily and not evening meal. For the above reasons, we will not support the modern centre of the new law in the Group of the Parties. However, we support the further implementation of the student food subsidy scheme, because we believe that this is an appropriate and sufficiently focused on the needs of students for healthy and balanced nutrition, which is also the main purpose of the scheme.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u18	President, thank you very much for your word. Nice greetings to the minister, to the team, to everyone else! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose, after some of the current words, an ideological theme and we raise ideological issues to deal with matters that we have proposed in the past. I would like to say this, the Resolution on the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025, which we did not write in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we are closely monitoring it, and also the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, which was adopted in June 2014, which was also not written by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and is closely monitored, and in all these documents, the Regulation on subsidised student diet states that students should be allowed to eat in accordance with public health recommendations, to improve the health of this population, to enable lower study costs, to enable better nutrition in all study centres in Slovenia, and thus, of course, to contribute to a quality study. These topics could also be opened today by the ruling party or government at the time of its adoption of these resolutions. Guidelines for healthy nutrition for students have been adopted and among specific objectives it has been stated that the quality of student food subsidies and the healthy nutrition of students need to be increased, and the measure to provide professional support to food providers to students, with a view to adapting the real offer to the applicable guidelines. Are we really pursuing these guidelines that are written down? The beneficiaries, i.e. students, are entitled, under the Law on Student Nutrition Subsidisation, to one subsidised meal every day and we do not say that they have the opportunity for more meals, as we have heard in some debates, and that we are talking about a daily and night meal. By proposing amendments to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, which is on the table today, we extend the hour when students can get a warm meal from 20 to 22:00. And we've heard that according to some universities and university members there are certain study programs that conduct lectures by 8:00. You all said it wasn't true, but no one mentioned any cases. But I can give you an example when that's true. This is the direction of Painting where they have lectures from 10 a.m. to 20 p.m. and if you want, they have an hour in between, once free and again then, so two hours, not together, but one by one. And now tell me, which of you Members is able to eat a quality meal in one hour, as you say, that quality food should be provided to students. As far as the ZUJF is concerned. I must say that I did not take part in this proposal alone, and I also think that there are quite a few Members, including the Slovenian Democratic Party, who were not in Parliament at the time, not many of you. And it should be remembered that you had, or were sitting 23. 6. 2013 in the National Assembly, including the possibility of amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, where it is now written that between 8 a.m. and 20 p.m. students can benefit from the diet but did absolutely nothing. And today, the government boasts that we have such economic growth, that certain provisions in the ZUJF can be written down or deleted. Why isn't this case deleted? If you're talking about quality student diet, if you're talking about helping the weak, then now's the time to make it possible. Given what we've been listening to for the last two nights in different media, that economic growth is 2.6 GDP and now we're going to delete certain things from the ZUJF. Then let me delete this article. Two hours of extension, allow students, those who want to eat this meal in the evening to be able to do so in restaurants. Days ago, I think one of the Members asked what we can do to allow the weak to live a decent life, this is a good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you, Vice President. Allow me to say in the introduction a few sentences according to everything heard by both the Government and the parliamentary groups. Unsincere intentions and so on — to be wrong is human. One in this government is wrong every day, one in a week, and one in a month won't even admit it. We in the parliamentary group, yes, the SDS was in the government when the ZUJF was adopted, I think, four or five Members from that mandate, and no one was Minister. Today we have heard about how this ZUJF is infamous, how bad it is, how it changed this provision. Today, you have, dear colleagues, Desus, SD and SMC, so those who oppose this law, the possibility that one part of this infamous ZUJF, who is responsible for everything, will change. You don't have the guts. In 2014, you were also part of the government that amended the Student Food Subsidisation Act, and you did not change this decision to give an interval of 20 to 22 hours. As I have already said as the proponent, it is not a systemic solution, but simply that practice has rejected the theory. Next thing you know, it's very important. According to law, every student is obliged to provide or subsidize one hot meal a day. Now that the government is bragging about how this would bring about the financial consequences of 1.2 million, according to the Student Organisation. Tell me, abroad you're talking about how we have economic growth, how they're going to do something new, how they're going to do something at home, and the opposite, you're saving. What if all the students took advantage of the possibility of a warm meal a day? What would then be the effect on the budget? Here it has a 2007 bill, which was then adopted – which food must be, not to go to fastfood, as has been said today and so on and the amounts are defined. According to our data, not all students unfortunately take advantage of the possibility of a warm meal. Only then would it be if the students decided that they would all, instead of going home to eat with their parents to save money and then go to college, whether they were born under a happy star and are Ljubljanans, that they could go almost in slippers to college, or who had to come from Lendava or Kopra to Ljubljana for a study and eat lunch at 12 p.m., go to the train, come to Ljubljana at 3 p.m., have classes, and then before going home, would go to a warm meal, which the country is legally obliged to provide. And you're on your way because this infamous ZUJF has made it impossible. You are against the ZUJF, the former government was against the ZUJF – and we all know which parties were in the previous government – and the current government is against the ZUJF, but at least that's what you're talking about against this law. When you cross the border of Slovenia all: the Stability Pact, the National Reform Programme, thank God we have the ZUJF. I think it's a duplicity. We said we were wrong, we're trying to introduce. The only representatives of the United Left can speak because so far they have not had the opportunity to be on the government and are also in Parliament for the first time. But to hear from the SMC that they didn't support it, because the ZUJF did it, but we won't change this infamous ZUJF. Respectable, little saintly, don't you think?Oh, my God! We in the SDS, and obviously also colleagues from New Slovenia, as well as the Positive Slovenia or the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, before the Positive Slovenia, have seen that something needs to be changed, and today we are changing a certain part of the ZUJF, which is so bad for you. But no. The coalition stubbornly insists and insists. Just a few more things. First, the Government's opinion: This should also highlight the aspect of healthy nutrition. Nice and nice. But if a student goes to lunch at 8:00 p.m., dinner, a hot meal, then either he goes to a dormitory or he goes on the last train home and he comes home. What kind of country are we to not let him do this? I say again, we're wrong, obviously, we're repairing. And we're going to raise our hand for or press the change of law key because the students suggested it. I believe that students probably also suggested this in 2013 when it was rather similar to the government, but at the time, paragraphs 6 and 8 were opened, and apparently the Ministry's representatives skipped when they could change the number from 20 to 22 hours at the initiative of the Student Organisation. And then the government, which boasts about economic growth and how it will be better now that they are in power, writes, "This would also be the case if students took the evening meal instead of the day meal." So what?Oh, my God! If a student comes to Ljubljana at 3 p.m. and has a lecture from 16 to 20 p.m., why shouldn't he have an evening? Why not, where is the problem if a student decides to take advantage of a lunch break, as we have in the National Assembly between 11 a.m. and 14 p.m. instead? We see in this an ideological and systemic problem that we cannot solve. And then they say, "Or we could use a daily meal on certain days as well as an evening meal." The state provides the student with one hot meal a day. And fortunately, all students don't take advantage of this warm meal. So students at the expense of their family budget care that the state budget is easier. If everyone took advantage, how many million would the ministry or government have to provide? I wonder what the answer would be. And here we are also on the public funds we are talking about today, and then the Minister says that the extension is not necessary. It would be necessary if at least 100% of the students took advantage of this voucher between 20 and 22 hours, then this would be an urgent solution. But it's probably just a spectrum of students, passersby, percentages, 10%, who might be there to take advantage of this voucher because of the study program. But once again, there is obviously only one problem — this SDS has introduced one law and this is why we will devote the whole day to the work of the National Assembly. If it were not for the SDS, the meeting of the National Assembly would have been closed yesterday and Members would have been on leave from 23 April to 2 May, but this SDS is imposing laws and is obviously also making it impossible for the government to deal with anything else. And maybe I'll use my time further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u22	Vice President, thank you so much for saying this. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. Initially, I must assess that I firmly believe that the subsidised student diet system in Slovenia is very well organised or very well organised. Of course, some improvements are possible here, but I firmly believe that what you are proposing on this occasion is not such an improvement that some qualitative value would bring to the student food subsidy system. I must be here, and without offense, very critical of this bill of yours. I consider him populism. And that's in the negative sense of that word, because I don't think it's appropriate for you to pick up some political points on the shoulders of a schooling youth. I will not repeat that you were the initiators of this law, because, finally, Desus added the cup to it, but you know that this debate, which will take place today for more than three hours, is only breaking whether students will be able to eat after eight, by ten o'clock in the evening or not. It's just not right, I think the focus should be somewhere else. One of your arguments, of course I have heard, is the extension of the educational process. That all day until 8:00 there is not enough time for a student or student to eat a healthy, warm meal, culturally, undisturbed and completely at peace, but I cannot believe it. And if so, forgive the expression, let the devil take such an education or education, that the student is bound continuously from 8 to 20 hours to a learning process, and that he cannot afford an hour or two in the course of a break to eat, that is to say, it replaces it irresistibly. The next issue – that those who organize student diets, that is, fastfood has been said and eminent localities, problems in this, I think they will not have, will focus on this time as it is now until 8 p.m. and not after 8 p.m. The next issue – financial implications. The financial implications here seem completely irrelevant when it comes to the possibility of feeding students when it comes to the possibility of healthy nutrition of students and their perspectives. I just think that any euro more or any euro less in the budget should not play any role. Of course, I would agree that more focus than I initially said, more emphasis is placed on healthy nutrition, quality, quality nutrition, but above all, this has bit me a bit, I hope that this is not so that students who eat student vouchers are second-rate consumers. This, of course, must not be and it is absolutely unsustainable. Here, if there really are any indications to this, the matter of control must be absolutely eliminated. I am convinced that, at the conclusion of this – I do not intend to spend too long on this topic – my firm belief that students need to be balanced between their study obligations, of course also their research obligations, where, after all, the healthy way of eating and other activities leading to the healthy way of life of the young population also belongs. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get Mrs. Andreja Potočnik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I'm going to use my predecessor's words just as he said, but if it's so bad in this country, in this school, students can't take or use before 8:00 a hot meal, let the devil do everything for me. And it will probably be because you probably know what it is like — those who are educated in higher education begin practice at 7 a.m., are up to one in an institution, can mention health workers here, and then run to lectures and are taking classes many times by 8 p.m. or another minute later. What grieves me most is that what Christian Democrats constantly warn us is that many students have to do their job, that they are employed, that they are looking for a student job and then they go to college or something. And if we were to stick with everyone else in the New Slovenia coalition, the answer for the future would not be so. Why we say that the biggest social situation in this country and the best environment are new jobs for their parents. Thus, students should not have to work while studying if their parents have decent jobs paid, and so we are witnessing in this country in many cases when students have to work to support two unemployed parents at home. I think that with all understanding, there is still a need to look at the situation in which students live. How can one parent with 285 euros of financial social assistance support a student or a student? That's impossible! I think we should first provide jobs for their parents here and then we could talk about any other way of using student vouchers. And as I have already mentioned, Christian Democrats do not understand why we should even limit our time when students will be going to warm meals. But I would point out that meals should be healthy. And as far as I'm concerned, it's really some kind of introduction of water and fruit and so on. But students are still adults and I'm sure they know when they need food, and we can't with an hour or so, that there's about fifteen minutes of delay, limit in any way. But I would like to stress another aspect that Christian Democrats see, and these are strong families. Families who need to be connected to be able to pass good samples on to children, such as education, relationships, eating habits, which is very important if we want these students who are eating to have a healthy life. We know that there are several aspects that he knows about in health care. A few months ago, we also discussed the aspect of sweet drinks and how the burden on the health department is also this way. It seems to me that we give too little emphasis to what the student situation is and why this shift takes an hour. I wouldn't even restrict him personally, because I think everyone is responsible for their actions and knows what that means to him. But why does it lead to this and I haven't heard from you today? It may still be during the debate to lead to this because many students have to look for their own lives, it is forced to seek their own lives at the age of eighteen, nineteen years, because they actually have to survive themselves because they can have two unemployed parents at home and another brother and sister. These are aspects that should not be overlooked in such a marriage. I am glad that economic growth is forecasting, when some things can probably relax when more rights come back, I am glad that the ZUJF has been adopted so that when economic growth exceeds 2.5%, 2.6% that these things are relaxing, because in fact this youth of ours, it seems to me that it is really in some trouble that it is not easy to come from. The measures must be directed at them. Christian Democrats have the right answers to that. These are our answers for the future, for new jobs and then it will be easier, better and, above all, we will be able to talk about some solidarity and, of course, a better social policy, and above all a better family policy. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u26	Dear President, Madam Minister, other colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I also welcome colleagues, future probably, students, students on the balcony! Unfortunately, I must repeat myself and remind you that the proposal for a 2012 amendment of its own proposal is said at the time of the Janša government. At that time, a time limit was adopted for the use of student vouchers, which had not previously been limited. Today we're talking about moving the hour of use of the 20th to 22nd hour vouchers. Let me remind you why you accepted this restriction at the time. The main reason for the time limit was adopted to ensure the sustainability of public finances and to reduce budgetary expenditure. In addition, the subsidised diet was abolished from 15 July to 15 August, while the time limit of 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. was also lifted. Unlike Mr Lisco, I believe that in 2012 you did not make the mistake mentioned earlier, but from a financial point of view you have given the matter very well thought. And we actually agree with that today in the SMC Group. Personally, I believe that the time from 8 to 20 hours is 12 hours, so that the subsidised student diet is sufficient to satisfy the condition of a warm meal. The argument by the applicants that the educational process also lasts after 20. Hours, yes, but you have to say they're in the middle of a breakup. And Mrs Godec earlier mentioned or stressed that students have only twice an hour in the direction of Painting, I repeat, only twice an hour, and that this time is not enough, saying that it is not enough for students to eat a decent meal. Mrs Godec, who is not currently in the hall, I believe he listens to me outside, and then how workers and employees can eat their warm meal in half an hour. Then do we have to change the law here for an hour? I don't know, in the SMC Group, I guarantee we can eat a meal in half an hour and in one hour for sure. As long as the students have it in the direction of Painting. In addition, I would like to point out that we are not in violation of any guidelines or resolutions, as students can now, within 12 hours, repeat, within 12 hours, eat a warm and healthy meal or, if they are healthy, decide for themselves. For these reasons, I regret that I cannot accept your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr. Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you. Maybe some observations on Mr. Prick and Mrs. Potočnik. Mr. Prikl said there was no added value. And I think the added value of this law or the added value is that you will be against this law because the state will save. So you will boast that you have added some of the ZUJF to the state budget. Mr. Prikl said the marriage was populism. Well, I hear that from a member of the Desus family who in 2008 promised a Dutch pension allowance of 300 euros, an average pension or a thousand euros. And then today we're populists because we said we were admitting a mistake. And Mrs. Potočnik said, yes, the ZUJF is bad in this area too, you, you, you, today you will be against it. We say, but I wasn't even close to the government at the time, nor was I a Member that we're against or that we're in favour of it being extended because students' wishes are like that. Practice is different than she wanted to show theory. And I really don't understand. ZUJF is bad, and you're against it. But today you have the perfect chance to solve this. One more thing about healthy diet. I'll read you an article from 2007. Article 1 reads: "Subsidised student nutrition providers shall be selected by the Ministry of Public Procurement in accordance with the rules on the implementation of the budget. A representative of the contractor shall participate in the invitation to tender within the invitation to tender." Last sentence: "In the invitation to tender, food quality and its price are taken into account as a priority criterion, but this is more precisely defined by the Regulation. Priority criteria: food quality and price." However, if the Ministry has decided not to list the fast food providers, in accordance with the quality of the food and its price, it is not a problem for me or the SDS, but it is a problem on the left, because it is obvious that the government is making regulations. Then we even have what control, what can be done, a written warning, a ban on the implementation of student food subsidies for recurring shortcomings, a breach of the contract, and so on. But in the law, if practice doesn't work, I don't know how we can change the law if some tendering commission decides that this and this fast food provider have quality food, unless we put it under transitional provisions, I don't know, in Ljubljana they provide quality food for this, this, this, this, this, in Koper this, this, this, and so on. And then we can cancel the rulebook and say, here, in the law, we'll tell you which guest providers for the current year of study are good enough. And once again, 12 hours of the process, not everyone has the opportunity to be in Ljubljana 24 hours a day. You will not believe it, but there are also many students of drivers, either because of spatial pressures in student homes or because of financial hardships on their and their families or because of family obligations or other reasons. And they probably won't come to Ljubljana at 7 a.m., so if they have studies between 16 and 20 hours, they'll be waiting until 8 a.m., or doing stupid things in Ljubljana, but they'll probably be doing things at home and coming an hour before they study in Ljubljana or at the last minute. And now it is possible for them to have a warm meal after the completion of the study process. And what this infamous ZUJF has done is what we are trying to change today. And you're against it. And he's guilty in the end of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you. Ms Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Now we've probably come a little bit from the content itself. Perhaps we would say, however, how well we have regulated student food subsidies. We're probably the only country that has that form. Thus, in fact, regardless of prices, no children are subject to material censorship when they are subsidized in primary school when they are given lunch and lunch in high school. The only universal right to eat is that of students. We are proud of this, perhaps we would like it to be similar there in the lower levels. And now in the National Assembly, we will talk for three hours about whether it is necessary and for the benefit of the students – even sentences have been given to the most threatened, that if we do not accept this, we will not show good will to the most threatened among us – because of whether or not we extend the right to pay the voucher that every student has, or whether we will extend that right from 20 p.m. to 22 p.m. And now we are talking about that you are so good at this because you understand and acknowledge the mistake of the ZUJF, we in the government are very ugly and those who are in the government, because we do not want to give and reject it, despite the fact that economic growth is and that we could afford it, this is your provision. And sometimes I don't know, in all the things we have to deal with in this country, but to point out that this is the most important thing, and I do believe that students would like to use subsidized food from 20 to 22 hours. [[…]] We could probably even limit them completely. But the fact is, when the ZUJF was proposed, it went into 36 laws. But, interestingly, this provision that we are considering today was of a lasting nature, so it was not linked to economic growth, and at that time it was also aligned with the SOS. Why? Because it was simply a matter of limiting the use that was not justified. If someone from 8 a.m. to 20 a.m. does not have time, it is clear that each student has the right to one voucher on a working day — according to information, if they do not use it, they can also carry it from month to month, so, even if they have multiple vouchers, they can use it more each day. Well, it's not about someone not being able to eat. And the fact is, there are 550 student nutrition providers in the country. Yes, indeed, most of them are in the area of student centers, university centers, because there are also the most students who benefit from these vouchers. They are also elsewhere in Slovenia. So the argument that someone can happen within 12 hours is that it can happen to someone that he may not, because he has other obligations, but to say that it is systematically impossible for young people to benefit from a warm meal, because we do not give them the right to take advantage of it from 20 p.m. to 22 p.m., and judge for themselves, not only on the vote, but in general. In the government, we are pleased that last year's economic growth has been such that we can talk about how we will release some of the measures of the ZUJF, especially those that are most affected by the socio-economic situation of our citizens and citizens. Yeah, unfortunately, we can't do everything, but we'd like to relax. For example, state scholarships, you mentioned the possibility of studying. Yeah, the fifth grade state scholarship is one we're gonna release because she was limited to the ZUJF. Children's allowances, which are also important, will be released. We'll raise minimum income. Repudiation of this law is not but a priori due to savings or financial consequences. That's not what this is about. However, as proponents you are obliged to do so, everyone is obliged to state the exact financial consequences. And the government just said that what you said wasn't true. That's a fact. The vote, however, will show. Perhaps, however, the debate on your other proposals will be more thorough and much more substantive than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you. A representative of the applicants, Mr Tomaž Lisec, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you. Dear Minister, you are one of the few ministers in this Government, whom I have also publicly commended for doing well, at least in certain areas, especially those of substance, not ideological. Well, it got me a little distracted, didn't it? You said this was the most important topic for us. We didn't say that. We didn't even say it was systemically disabled, and we're systematically saving it. In the introduction, it is a completely technical article – instead of until 8 p.m. it is possible. And we acknowledge a mistake from the ZUJF, which, as you said at the time, was in line with the Student Organisation. Now the students came to us and said, "if possible." I believe that I do not know how many thousands of students will take advantage of this opportunity every day to benefit from student vouchers or warm meals between 20 and 22 hours. But it would have happened if it had been possible. And the only reason for this is that the problem for state finances is because every voucher given by the state subsidises it, so it goes to one euro or 2.45 euros – if I am not mistaken, the minister will know from the state budget for a warm meal of students. As far as the financial implications are concerned – I have now been out of my mind, we have had several financial consequences in this mandate of traineeships, apprenticeships, even the government itself once said the case, I think that apprenticeships were possible to deal with financial consequences, and then they remembered 14 days later. In this mandate they have already passed laws where it was written: the law has no financial implications, but we all knew it had them, but you put your head down and pressed the key for. All we are saying is that there are no additional financial consequences because the law determines that every student has a warm meal a day. And that would be the best financial consequence for the country if students didn't benefit from student fees. The country would be the happiest in this case, let's be honest. Every voucher, including that possible between 20 and 22 hours, is part of the cost of the country and, despite the fact that it was then considered a sustainable measure by the ZUJF, we can change it today. And interestingly, once again, those who are most opposed to the ZUJF will today vote against the amendment of one provision of the ZUJF.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Slug ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. As I watched today’s debate schedule, I was relatively surprised. What we're going to say 3 hours and 20 minutes about actually two numbers that relate to the time of delaying the possibility of using student food vouchers. You know, in our parliamentary group, even though you speak, and we do not change our mind, we are still on what has been adopted with the infamous ZUJF. I have to say, there were good things in the ZUJF, and there were bad things. At the right time, we were simply adopting some, modifying regulations, not some, quite a number of regulations, which infringed on the rights of citizens and citizens. We were not able to do this, but we were aware that we were actually at a time when an infamous European threesome was knocking at the door. In view of the fact that some change their mind, it depends on your role in the National Assembly or in the government. Dear colleagues, you know, when you're in the government, there's something else to worry about than when you're in the opposition, when you can share the suggestions you like. You are well aware of this, and you were aware of that when you were responsible and led the government. I have one thing to say to Mr. Lisco. You have repeatedly mentioned in the National Assembly, and you are quoting the wrong president of the party I belong to. You know, I call it a simple and simple lie. The president said that if the tycoons can have what they have, then the pensioners can also have a thousand euro pension. And I would ask you to try to find the text and quote it consistently, but not in some way punch it for what it didn't say. Now I'm going to talk specifically about the law. The Law on Student Food Subsidisation was adopted in 2002. I think that there is probably no longer a Member who was sitting or, I apologize, I remember who adopted this law at the time and who determined up to one subsidised meal a day have the right of students and it was also said that they could also get a meal on Saturday and Sunday, but they must get a certificate from an appropriate school organisation, says a higher education organisation or a higher education institution. And then in 2012, when we accepted the ZUJF and in the 104th article, we wrote: they do not have the right to a subsidised meal from 15 July to 15 August, and they have to benefit from the vouchers from 8 p.m. to 20. Hours. In order to underpin the matter further, even though you claim to have found that this was a measure which was not corrected, that you were changing the matter, I quote the gentleman I appreciate, mag. Andrej Visiak: "We have a measure relating to student diet, which will then be possible to use student vouchers only when student obligations and probation are in place and it will not be possible to use this in one month, i.e. from 15 July to 15 August, when this use will also be limited to the period between 8 and 20. An hour." So Mr Vizjak proposed this and aligned the matter with the student organisation. I remain in position, then we accept it, and we will now confirm it. And once again, I say that these views about this, we're probably the only ones in the National Assembly that we won't change.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you. Mrs Janja The text is addressed to Mr Tomaž Lisec, the proposer's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr Jurša, a very correct statement, I will not touch on changing positions because Desus has a problem with opposition positions. And why? Since he is never in the opposition, they are always in power. As for Mr. Erjavac's statements, I admit that I do not follow him daily because as many statements as he makes on a daily basis, you probably don't follow the other coalition partners, but STA, 26. 8. 2008: "The Prime Minister, Desus Karl Erjavec, has set the Desus target for the coming term of office. The pensioners would be given at least 1,000 euros in pension." I wasn't at a press conference because every day he goes to the government to make a statement when he goes with the government to make a statement, he makes statements on behalf of the party and so on. "At least 1,000 euros of pension would be spent on pensioners." For me, it's a source. For me, it's a source. It also says: "Every full-time pensioner should receive a thousand euros in pension. This is President Desus Karl Erjavac's vision for the next four years." I did not read the press conference magnetogram, I apologize deeply to Mr Erjavac, Mr Jurša because, as I said, I do not even want to follow all his statements, but STA, Finance, but we do not do advertising to other media, they wrote it down. I, as a citizen in 2008, then an expert member of the SDS Group, remembered that. And if our memories keep this up and keep the media releases, so if I lied, I lied solely because I read the statement: "The pensioner promises at least a thousand Euros of pension." However, if Mr Erjavec has not said this or has been taken from the context, the correction may follow, probably even for 2008, although it has been seven years.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you. Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare for the procedure, Mr Jurša. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u38	This debate by Mr Lisco was quite out of the context of the agenda item that we are dealing with, and he repeated those things that he had already said in the debate that I will not say under quotations, and so I ask you to remind him of his discussion for a second time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u39	I give my word to the proposer. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u40	Dear Vice President. Dear Mr Jurša, you said I was lying when I spoke about what Mr Erjavec had said and promised. You told me I was lying. And I'm just quoting media releases that say what Mr. Erjavec said. If I have lied, I admit that Mr Erjavec may have been misrepresented, but Erjavec promises pensioners at least a thousand euros, 170 comments and so on, but I do not see any right of correction anywhere below. So, Mr. Jurša, please don't tell me I'm a liar and I lied when I say what I read. However, if the article is wrong, I apologize to Mr Jurša and Mr Erjavac, but next time they should give the right to correction, we will all know that any context has already been excluded from what Mr Erjavec meant. But if he said something else, what he meant, unfortunately, we have no influence on its implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u41	I propose that we now proceed with the consideration of the bill. Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare Mrs Mag. Jana Jenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not procedurally, although I also meant to suggest that in the future anyone who departs from the topic from which we have departed is invited, of course, to take account of the agenda and to discuss the subject. I will say so that, at first glance, the SDS proposal to extend the collection of vouchers to ten o'clock in the evening is very attractive. But when you get a little deeper, I have to say that I've found quite a few reasons against this extension. And if we just look at history, I have to say that, of course, if the proposaler realized that he had made a mistake with the ZUJF and would now like to correct that mistake, it would be perfectly legitimate. However, I must say that in my review of the history of these proposals, I have found that this same candidate had already tried a similar measure with Minister Drobnik during his first government, and there was a terrible opposition and the proposal was not even put into the procedure. That is why I can say that I strongly doubt that it is only a matter of knowing that this ZUJF has made the mistake that it now wants to address. At that time, the ZUJF's proposal stated that one of the fundamental reasons for the introduction of savings limits is in the budget. I must say today that this is not a fundamental reason why I will not support the proposal, so the financial impact is not a fundamental reason. I will also continue to tell you why not and what other reasons there are. Nevertheless, this financial impact would have stopped, as stated in the proposal that there are no financial effects. However, if we look back, it is said that if we turn things around and actually look at the financial effects that this provision of the ZUJF had at that time, and we can find that in 2011 it was for student nutrition, that is to say for those subsidies that were cashed, EUR 17.4 million. Now, if I let go of 2012 because it entered into force in the middle of the ZUJF and it wouldn't be a comparable year, and I look, say, just 2013 and 2014, there are 3 million euro on this item. So they're financial effects. And of course, taking into account students' allegations that certain financial effects are also due to the crisis, because certain students have realized that, despite all the costs, if meals are prepared at home and do not benefit from subsidised diets, we estimate that only a measure to end the implementation of student diet between 15 July and 15 August contributes to the savings of around €700,000 per year. According to the calculations of the student organisation, as has already been said today, these two hours would bring an additional 1.3 million. While I doubt that this number is correct, it is definitely not less than €40 000 and should therefore be mentioned in the proposal. Since you are also referring to the extension of the study process as a reason for this proposal, I have also gone a little deeper into my college schedules. The programme's move, which was stated by colleague Godcheva, where she herself stated that they were free between two hours and one hour, I must say that I did not see such extreme schedules so that it could be said that it was impossible to serve a warm meal at that time. The only direction that has a maximum of three times a week’s lectures by 20 p.m. is the university program Social Informatics at FDV, which is the fourth year. There are real lectures three times a week until 8:00 p.m. All other programs have only one or two lectures per week by 20 p.m., where their lectures begin at 10 or 12 p.m. and have at least two or even four hours of rest. So it would be very difficult to say that at this time two hours they cannot afford a warm meal. In fact, if we look at other European countries, I find that we have this system very well regulated in Slovenia, as the Minister has already pointed out, it belongs to all students for a warm meal, not just those who are socially at risk. I am pleased to find that this is not so well-managed in any other European country. In some countries, for example, such as Sweden, students have the right to a cash refund, which also covers food costs. Austria, for example, subsidises food in guest restaurants that offer food at reduced prices for all students. Some countries have cafeterias in colleges where food is affordable, and I have also looked at the opening times of these cafeterias. And if we look, for example, in Germany, we can see that they're mostly open by 3:00. Of the 12 student cafeterias I watched, only two are open until 6 p.m., one to 6.30 p.m. and one to 19 p.m. All others, as we say, by 3 p.m. or less. In Sweden, I looked at five menses, all open until 3:00 or 4:00. Only one of them is two days a week, so Monday and Tuesday, open until 7:00 p.m. and not till 10:00 p.m. But they are following these tables exactly the same goals as our student food subsidy, which is to offer the student a warm meal. From this I can conclude that the system is good, that it does not need any changes. The proposed amendments do not allow for any greater quality in the use of student diet, so I will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I fear that those accompanying today's debate will, in fact, think that we are canceling the vouchers, so the debate is going in the wrong direction, because we are discussing everything else, just those two hours of extension that are the proposal of this law, in fact, not. So it seems to me that this is just another of the laws that are being proposed here today, the amendment of this law. All the arguments cited in the debates by my predecessors from the coalition say that all your allegations do not support these arguments. Moreover, I do not think that this amendment will bring about an improvement in the situation for the students. Everything remains the same, they will eat as before, they will have a warm meal — which is essential. So there's no reason to fix this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. May 2015 will be 23 years when subsidised food was first organised for students in Ljubljana, and later this will be transferred to other places in Slovenia where colleges and departments were created. The vouchers were printed and the student had to plan the spending. And there have been abuses. Today, a subsidised meal can be enjoyed by many restaurants across Slovenia only with a personal document, student diet card or mobile phone, by electronic ordering of a home by choice, including diet, vegan and other forms of nutrition. Well, now there's something else about the financial implications. I'll repeat it because it's already been said. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and other options assesses that the measure to abolish the implementation of student diet within the period from 15. Seven to 15. 8. contributes to the savings of the circus EUR 700 000 per year, a measure to eliminate the use of student nutrition at night and a circulation of EUR 1.3 million per year from 20 to 8 p.m. However, the comparison between the number of beneficiaries and the number of subsidies in cash is particularly interesting. For example, for 2012, 61 000 89 students were eligible monthly, while 6 000 510 in this year and similar in other years. This means that students prepare their own food, which they themselves say is cheaper. Of course, we will not support the proposal in our group, but I did not read the student organisation's website a slogan that says, "I eat healthy, I study full steam." In Desus we support: I eat healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Today's bill is one very beautiful indicator of what it's like to be in a position of opposition. When you were in the SDS in the government, of course, before the fact that the money in the budget was not enough, you looked at what you could do on the income side, what on the expenditure side and you also looked at student diet. And you looked first at why we even have vouchers. We have vouchers to get students a warm meal during the educational cycle. Because this reduces the diseases caused by the unhealthy diet of students. And you first saw that in the summer there was no educational cycle, there was no need to have the vouchers, you stopped it. This is how you saved 70,000 euros. Then you looked at the daily cycle and found that there was no need to use the vouchers after 8 p.m., so you stopped eating later. This way, we save about a million a year. It's probably not an accurate calculation that can be done. It's about a million. And now we'd put that back on for 10 o'clock. When I first heard about this proposal of yours, I was at the first ball of course for because I remember my college days and I remember in the evening when there was a party, of course we brought pizzas on the vouchers, we also got alcohol on the vouchers, and something else and it was a good party, but it was not part of the educational process, although you learn a lot about these evening things. If it stays until 8:00 p.m., you still have 12 hours to eat. No one's gonna convince me you can't have one hot meal. I mean, even if it's 8:00 or 9:30 a.m., she's practicing whatever she's doing, you still have time to eat a warm meal. That's the main reason why we even have vouchers — to eat one hot meal a day. And if that's why you have to come to Ljubljana an hour early, then you'll be there at 4:00 instead of 5:00, and you'll go get something to eat. You don't have to because of that, Mr Lisec mentioned earlier that after 7 hours they're walking around Ljubljana and they don't know what to do. Say, one idea is to go to lunch when you're waiting for your next class. Let me get this straight. It was mentioned that the government should not restrict people when they can eat or when they cannot eat. I absolutely agree with that. People are old enough to decide when to eat, when not to eat. The government absolutely believes, however, that after eight o’clock eating is not healthy, there is no right to forbid anyone to eat at that time. But this isn't about being banned from eating after 8:00. The point is, the government doesn't encourage food after 8:00. This is purely legitimate and purely correct. That means you've got 12 hours to get a hot meal. There is one reason, one valid reason to prolong this now, because there are also consequences in the financial field and also in the healthcare sector, although let us say that everyone can manage it for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. A representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you. The forerunner. He said he'd come to Ljubljana an hour earlier. Then I'll turn the other way. Why don't you come straight to class and go home an hour later? He can also use a bon. And in the end, I'll be labeled a populism. He'll be here an hour early. Why? We just want the law to give you the opportunity to leave for an hour after 20 or 2 hours for a warm meal. And like you said, we're not gonna say when they're going to eat, but yeah, they're not gonna get a subsidized voucher. And once again, we are not talking about all students taking advantage of this opportunity. But there will be someone there who would take advantage of this possibility for such or other reasons. But according to most people in the National Assembly, he won't have that option. He can, of course, go to a warm meal at his expense.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Dr. Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Today I listen to this debate all the time. I must say that sometimes at some point I am really not sure whether I am sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or sitting somewhere at a social meeting where we are talking about things which, according to my personal assessment at this time, are not primary for this country, but are important. But they're important. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled this law with genuine sincerity. And all those who are trying to convince Slovenian public, Slovenian youth, these students, students that this proposal is dishonest, I'm sure you're wrong. And that what you're saying is far from true. My fellow Member, who is also a candidate, has made it very clear in his deliberations that life is changing. That at some point the situation was like this, and at some point there was a different situation, a new situation. If we remember in 2011, what was the situation in this country when the three of us threatened, and so on. And it is likely that at that time some solutions were adopted that might have been appropriate, far from being good. And now the moment has come when we find that certain things can be changed. Today or yesterday, I listened to the secretary of employment, the family, who said what they were going to relax. I think you've all heard that you've all listened to what Mrs. Minister for Work, Family, Mrs. Copacheva said. Many of you have debated that this proposal has financial implications. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, she said what they were going to release. So that the money in the state budget is going to be big, that revenue is going to be big, and so on, in that context. So, then I don't understand, I really don't understand you sitting in the same government, in the same coalition. Let's make a deal with each other, deal with it! Think about how to proceed. I think now is a good time for us to change things. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that things need to be changed. Otherwise, when we gained our independence and gained our Republic of Slovenia, we could say, look, we have our own country, but the SFRJ legislation was the best and there is no need to change it, we will not change anything. Indeed, there are still likely many in the National Assembly who would be glad that nothing would change from the SFRY forward. I am not among them and of course not the Slovenian Democratic Party. Let me get back to the law. I mean, if students, if the Student Organisation agrees with this change and wants this change, why would we prevent it in the National Assembly, with some administrative measures. Why? I'm asking you why. At least I'm sure we're sitting in the National Assembly to help all these groups solve things in a way that makes them happy. That's our job. And I don't understand why you're opposed to it. Today I have heard of Mr Rabbit, and many of you who have been students, how important it is, how right the bon is to come not only for what is necessary, but also for everything else. We do not want with this law what Mr Zajc said. But we want those students who want to eat one hot meal a day to take advantage of it in the time that it is written on their skin. And I don't think we can argue with that. You argued that now that the Slovenian Democratic Party is in opposition, we can put in laws like this. Look, if this is a nice marriage, I have to say I'm surprised when someone can say it's a nice marriage. I know what laws like. I know. I don't like this marriage, it's just a solution to some problem that students face during their studies. And it's a good thing we're going to walk up to them, and we're going to go up to them, and we're going to help them. It's right, and we have to do it. This must be our mission. And no matter what, I repeat, because I often like to say it, and I stand behind it, no matter who the client is. I think that if we thought and forgot in this direction that this proposal was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, there would be a high probability that this law would go easily through. Easy. Easy. Do you know what the nice things I listened to yesterday were before yesterday? What the secretary of employment said, the family. Oh, that's nice. When economists point out that the situation in this country is extremely serious, extremely serious, however, 2.4 or 2.5% of economic growth, it is extremely serious. And even before this thing goes on, it takes a few months to figure out if it's a long-term story or if we've done something to increase economic growth, and so on, we're already talking to people about how we're going to divide what we're going to do at that time to some point. Divided before we know how to end the beginning and the end of the year, financially. These are some sort of predictions. And I think that's pretty irresponsible, in a given situation, quite irresponsible. I'm afraid we don't get the moment of the truth again because we're getting ahead of things again. And how many words have been said again for the public administration, how much progress has to be made, and all these things, and that this country is 150, 160, 170 million euros without a problem. I don't think it's a good time for that kind of thing, at least not yet. However, I am sure that the moment is right where we must help socially disadvantaged groups in this country. And that's where the time is. All employees in the state administration and in public administration, regardless of progress and so on, can survive normally without any problem, without any problem from month to month. Those poor people, 300, 200, 400, 500 Euros of pension, all those on this minimum salary, who are constantly more, they do not see the end of the month and very difficult to connect the beginning and the end of the month. I think that we should focus primarily on this given situation, at this given time, and resolve and help solve these people's problems, not spend money where there is enough money for once without any problem. All I have to do in the state and public administration is add this, and I don't count those people who work in technical services, because I know even employees in the state and public administration, in the school system, because they work in technical services, and they have 600, 700 euros or they are on a minimum wage. I don't mean those people, but I mean most of the others who have enough reserves to survive the next few years, I don't know how many years. Of course, I will be the law, which I do not tell him is pleasing, and I do not claim to be loving, supported for one and the basic and simple reason. The student organization said how it imagined a solution to this problem. She said she was okay with it. Why would we administratively prevent her from eating when they think she's right, from then on until then? Why would they do this to me in the National Assembly? We don't have any rights, and it's very unfair. And if we have made a mistake at a given time, which was completely different from the present, it is only right that we correct these mistakes. And with this proposal we want to do just that, very honestly, very responsible and very clearly, we are not hiding behind anything. We have said very frankly, the mistake has been made and needs to be corrected. And that's what those who have their credibility do. That's what they do without talking to each other, but they do the other. The last time I listen to these debates by members of the National Assembly, there will be just one law, which is related to those groups of people I spoke about earlier, we will see what these parliamentary groups will say, how they will talk and what they will say, how they support the law that will follow, which is still very important. Then I will see what Mr President of the Labour Committee will say to the family. What will the representative of Desus say? What will the Social Democrats say? You're declaring "More social states." We'll see what that means. That's what I'm waiting for. And I want to spend as little time today as possible on this subject as possible, because I think that if students want us to do this. I don't have a problem not doing it, at least I don't. All thousands of such or other arguments, why not do something, are sufficient in the country. When I go from one bureaucratic environment to another, they can't say anything like that, it can't, it can't because of that, it's a bad marriage. But they say that because they don't have to do anything, then the problem is solved. If you haven't done anything, you can't make any mistakes and so on. Why do we always hear that the Slovenian Democratic Party or government of John Janša is the one who has done everything wrong in this country? Why do we always listen to this? So it's the only government that's worked in this country. Otherwise, I can't say. Because I've been listening to this from your parliamentary group all the time. All the time. And today this adulterer of ZUJF, which I have listened to today – a super-savory law, but my colleague Lisec made it very clear today that you were all beating each other's chests when you went to Europe. Everybody. That's great, and so on, I'm not gonna say anything. And I really don't want to go back. Let's focus on tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and the day after. And we don't always look for excuses on past matters. Let's not look for these excuses. That's the situation. Parliament is here today. Emissary groups are here. It is known who has taken responsibility for the leadership of the country, which has been given to him by the electorate and the electorate, and let us work for today, tomorrow, the morning and beyond. But not yesterday, who did something yesterday, who did something eight years ago or ten years ago. You can't live on that. Things that have been done wrong must be changed and solved. And why don't we come together and say, during the session, look, the mistakes that have been made we admit and take steps to correct these mistakes and find better solutions. I don't see why we wouldn't do that. Why? We are all Members, we have all been elected to this National Assembly, no matter who the party is. People expect it from us, they wait, they want it, they look forward to once we step together and take a step. Not that we're constantly fighting here, who's smarter, who's more papal than the Pope and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think the Slovenian people are full of this nonsense and expect us to take some steps. And once again, the mistakes that have been made in the past, I hope we've all learned something from them. And if we have learned something from them, I expect that on this basis we do not repeat the same mistakes and look for ways and solutions that are better, better quality and which are especially written on the skin of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but not to certain narrow groups of the mafia and those criminal associations, as I always say. We have to cut this out here once. We have to cut it. I think there are enough of us here right now, in this call of the National Assembly that we can do this, that we can take a step across. And let's do it. To the conclusion. Of course, I will gladly support this marriage because I think it must be supported, especially because, as I said earlier, it is also supported by the Student Organisation. We don't lose anything with this, we just give the chance that those who eat can do it by 10:00. And that's their thing when they go to the meal they want to eat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It is true that this law will not encourage any reforms. That's what we'd expect from you, fellow members of the coalition. Nor will it most likely affect economic growth or the reduction of the number of unemployed, although if students are motivated to study and study more properly and earlier, if they are even further motivated by the state to go into some of their activities, into entrepreneurship, then perhaps we can also hope for this. However, with the proposed amendment, we only want to extend an hour of subsidised meals from 20 to 22 hours. Because we know that there are many lectures in the afternoon, many lectures are being held in the evening. On the other hand, we also know that it is not the only job of students and students to attend lectures and exercises. That main work comes only after, and that's college, studying. Like probably every one of us here, students have their own rhythm. One of them gets up at four in the morning and sits down for a book, one of them takes an afternoon or an afternoon to study, and there are a lot of them that suit them to study at night or study at night because they have the greatest peace then. And somehow I don't understand why we wouldn't allow these students to eat one decent meal even in these evening hours, of course, if they want it. We don't tell them they have to eat at this hour. We only extend their choice until when this subsidised meal can also be enjoyed. The limit on the number of subsidised meals remains unchanged, and I also do not understand this data, in order to injure public finances for EUR 1.2 million. I don't know where you came from with that 1.2 million euros. Students still have the same number of subsidised meals available. This does not change with this bill. I was also concerned by this information that only around 50% of this was actually used. I think there's very little. It would be good if there were more. I cannot agree either, the Government's opinion says that eating lunch after 20 hours is contrary to healthy nutrition. Somehow they taught us that usually in these hours there is more to dinner than lunch, but anyway, so we can't talk about lunch at this hour, but it doesn't matter now. It is important to me that students have the possibility of a warm meal at this hour, if, of course, their worker or their study time is such that it would suit them. Because anyway, I can't limit the students to when they're going to eat and they're going to eat after 8:00, but if they don't have a hot meal, they're going to eat sandwiches. What is healthier now if we are talking about a healthy diet? However, I would like to agree with what New Slovenia has stressed, let us limit that subsidisation is only possible in those restaurants where only healthy food is actually offered. Then there's nothing to worry about for students to eat after 8:00. Well, if they're up to one or two at night, it's probably not one big tragedy or a crime. They're going to eat anyway, it's just important what they're going to eat at that time. So perhaps, let us consider raising the standard in this area. In this case, however, the clock is completely irrelevant. Each individual should decide when to study and when to eat. The only question is how good he can eat. Personally, I do not think that this change in the extension of the possibility of subsidised nutrition will harm the state budget, but will make it easier for a student to work, so of course I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I won't speak populistally, and I hope I won't speak like that, as we've heard several times today. When we talk about this important law, if everything were normal, and if everyone advocated the welfare of the Slovenes and Slovenians, then the proposer would present this law today and, of course, all the parties would present their views and the vote will be closed tomorrow. We've heard a lot about students today. Some have even deepened so far that they have examined even Europe, all European countries, all things to have a valid reason to vote against this law tomorrow. When we talk about students in Slovenia, these students certainly study in different ways. One's home in the cities, the other's out of town. In particular, I have in mind, when I talk about multiple levels, that many students have very poor conditions for study. For a simple reason, because their parents do not earn well, most of the time, some parents do not have a job at all. That's how little we've heard today about what these students have to do during the day. I'm sure they're not just in a dorm, they're studying, they're going to classes. Many students who do not have sufficient financial resources at home also have to work before they go to school this afternoon. When I first met this problem myself, I was sitting in a restaurant after 8:00. Four students came in for a hot meal, and they negotiated with the waiter for a while. They must have overlooked that the clock had passed - it was not clear to me because I had to be honest that I didn't know. And when these students had a drink and they left the restaurant, I was just curious and asked the waiter what had happened. And he explained to me what the student diet system was like. Of course I was a little surprised. I must say that as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party and probably also my colleagues, when we walk through our municipalities in Slovenia, we do not explain whether we are opposition Members or coalition Members, we are Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and we work for the welfare of the Slovenes and Slovenes. When we recently started talking about this issue in the parliamentary group, it was also said that we were here together, and my colleagues who were before me in the National Assembly said that we might have a little "wet" on this segment and that we wanted to fix it. Of course, I certainly support it myself, but since I wanted to make sure, this is a thing that is a problem for some students, I checked with the students. And what's most important. Look, today we're talking about 20 o'clock, we're talking about a region that I don't want to mention, students after half seven hours or seven hours have a very hard time getting a healthy and warm meal, they only get pizza, preferably cold, because all the inn or restaurants in that region are probably closing. Since we are extending this to 22 hours, it will certainly not mean this for all students in Slovenia, but it will be for a large majority. Even those students who have to work in the afternoon or in the morning may take advantage of one day and will go to lunch first, and at late lunch, and at evening, they do not have the option, because it has to be four hours apart. Of course, I will personally support this law, not because it is populist, respected colleagues from Desus, I will not support it because it is pleasing, respected colleagues from the SMC – because this law gives students the opportunity to eat by 10:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get Mr. Miha Kordish ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. It is difficult to avoid the conclusion, not only today, but also generally that any proposal proposed by Members of our parliamentary group always comes across an apriorous reaction from coalition parties, and perhaps in some proposals another part of the rainbow coalition. First of all, I would like to remind you that I myself have proposed a number of laws in the field of education. Let me just remind you of the Student Diet Act. I also proposed some solutions, including in previous periods of arrangements for transport, apprentices, students and students. I also participated in this law, but at the time when we proposed some solutions that went to the benefit of one of the education populations, no matter how useful the measure was, we have always encountered the exact same response of all those who debated, whether it was the former Minister of Education, Mr Gabra, including in the field of work and so on and also the discussions of the coalition Members were the same. When we introduced, for example, a diastolic diet, they talked about offering candy, pre-election candy. They supported the marriage, supported the solutions, but accused it in some inappropriate way. I think that there should be a fundamental assessment when we talk about a solution that we have on the table, in particular whether the proposal improves or does not improve the existing one. Either it means a solution that is proposed, what additional contribution to solving problems, or it makes this situation worse. Given that the student diet or use of the student meal, as far as technology is concerned, is more or less regulated, and we are only discussing the possibility of extending the use time, I do not think that this proposal is detrimental to the student population. It's impossible to go to the detriment of the student population. And to make additional conditions, additional options even in cases where some are for such or other reasons, I would say schedules, studies and so on to allow them to do so further. The excuses we hear from both the Government and the coalition Members are unfounded and have no serious arguments. And let's say, you know yourself, we've all been more or less students to lecture, even if they end at 6 p.m., sometimes they don't end at 6 p.m., because then there are also different conversations with lecturers, they're exercises, they're clearing up certain things. Many are also involved in transportation, since not everyone has organized meals in a student campus or within their own college. As a rule, it's not so arranged either. And I think the government, the government coalition, should act more proactively on such things. Even so, when you objected to the arrangement of volunteer traineeships or the abolition of volunteer training, nothing was arranged. Not one of the problems of this modern - day slavery, which covers only the most educated population, was eliminated at that time. Even in this case, even if you reject the law, you will not solve any of the problems. But you will simply leave closed, cemented, and you will be happy to go after you have rejected the law of the SDS, forward. Not even in that area of the previous month or two months ago will any problem be resolved. Nothing. Nothing at all. Everything will remain the same, things will go on, limits will remain, some will actually be unnecessary. And if the coalition, if the government, the ministry, the coalition are not capable of reacting in this way, I will say a small amendment concerning the regulation of the use of student vouchers, then something in this country, in this coalition with a political understanding, is very wrong. And it's very hard to expect any better suggestions. At least today I have not heard any comments that our proposal for a case does not address it comprehensively enough. At least that's what I think, from the discussions we've had so far, it's sort of fallen out. But what's the problem is, there's a lot of reasons why we should be against it. And against a proposal that makes nothing worse, but improves and eliminates the time limit for that part of the student population that encounters certain limitations and obstacles. Everything else, as far as the rules are concerned, remains the same. And the position of the Government and the coalition in this proposal is completely unreasonable, unreasonable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u60	President, thank you very much for your word. I must say that I have been following this debate even in the morning, and I am making notes on the position that someone has taken, the arguments that have emerged and so on. And I must say that I have managed to narrow the words of the opponents of today's proposal to some four points, and as just stated by the MP of the type of candidate, this is in fact an objection to the proposal that the possibility of subsidising student diet is shifted from eight o'clock in the evening to ten o'clock in the evening, pulled out, quote, "out of five veins". The first such argument, which is not really an argument, is that everyone stumbles against the proposer and under his hypocrisy. That's exactly what I'm talking about. The restrictions on student food subsidies were created during the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. At the time, SDS was the largest coalition party. And what this marriage has brought, we know. ZUJF represents that heart, a crystallized attack on workers' rights, on pensioners, on students, on public welfare. The Janša government at that time boasted that it had saved 460 million euros and that it did not boast so much, but that it had actually produced 700 million euros in economic damage and then budget revenues fell accordingly. And part of this ZUJF was also the limitation of this student diet. The first objection to today's law is in fact opposition to the applicant and the exposure to his hypocrisy. But, and here we come to an interesting work, just everyone who refers to the gap between the SDS policy in 2012 and today's proposal, right in 2015, has had the opportunity or has the opportunity to remove this harmful saving law from ZUJF to correct it, to soften it, in short, to do anything about this law. Have we seen any step in this direction? Did we get him? We didn't. We have not seen him in the days of Alenka Bratušek, and we have not seen him for at least once during the time of the government of Mir Cerar, but he still has a coalition full of mouths, "how bad is saving, how bad is ZUJF" and so on, while doing absolutely nothing to determine this ZUJF, including the issue of subsidising student diet. On the contrary, a few days ago, the Minister of Public Administration of Koprivnikar made it very clear that, following his temporary austerity measures, they must become permanent and must move into so-called structural reforms. This criticism in the gap between the proposal of the ZUJF in 2012 and today's proposal by the SDS can be justified on a substantive basis, but it becomes completely absurd according to who makes this criticism. At the same time, you cannot criticize the austerity measures and the parties that have brought these austerity measures into our policies while doing the same. That's not working. This argument is, as a reason to oppose why we should not re-arrange and improve the areas of student diet, completely aboriginal. While we are signing this argument in the United Left because the criticism of SDS and then of the Janša government is justified, there is no reason why man would not support today's proposal. That's not the reason. That's two different things. This is a completely political operation, how to mix apples and how to mix pears, so that you can reject a matter because it doesn't fit you for one reason or another. Another argument, if I may say or this one is already a little bit more substantive, is that the proposal states that these changes will not have any terrible consequences for public finances. Okay, maybe that's true. The proposer is involved in political dribbling, but not least we are in the National Assembly – who is not involved in political dribbling? Let's be honest! In doing so, it must be borne in mind that today is the first time that we are looking at such things, and that such things are not the reason for some parliamentary group or some group of Members to reject an idea, some proposal simply rejects it. It's not! Today we talk about some principled guidelines, we talk about the underlying reasons. It is obvious, however, that in this proposal, financials at formal level are not properly recorded, simply do not drink water. For the first reading, this does not drink water, so the second argument of opponents to this law falls. Let's see the third argument: 12 hours together is no lecture. A respected coalition, respected coalition MPs, I don't know exactly what you were doing before you came to the National Assembly, but to reduce the issue of students, the time of students on when lectures are and when there is no lectures is absolutely abject. Do you even know what difficult social conditions people are in today, including students? They're doing one job and another job just so they can study. A while ago, it also came to the public that some situations are already so bad that certain students do not support themselves and the possibilities of their study, but also have to maintain their families. And in such a social context, explain that we do not need to redecorate the areas of student diet, because we do not need to extend the deadline, but until when people have the opportunity to use student diet, because there are no lectures anywhere for 12 hours together – I mean, this is completely absurd! Really, absolutely absurd. The additional study process and activities of students are also not reduced only to the presence of lectures, the key work begins at home when you come home for books when you need to start peeling, when you need to start counting on such and different exams. This is the third argument of opponents of today's proposal, which is televised as long and wide as its two predecessors. Then we get to the finale, claiming that after eight o'clock in the evening it doesn't mean having dinner, that it's not healthy then to eat. What did I just tell you? This claim sounds something like the one that came into the history books or even into the popular culture of Mary Antoinette, that if they don't have bread, they should eat the sweat. People in very difficult social conditions who work for one job, after two jobs that may support their family, and somehow try to make a fax, you explain that after eight o’clock in the evening they really don’t have to have the opportunity to use subsidized student food because it’s not healthy. Please! In the meantime, people fight all day to get themselves out of their lives. Please! These were some four basic reasons that I have understood from today’s discussion why this law is not O.K. I would also add to this that what is here in reality, which is the real reason to oppose this proposal today, is the public financial consequences of an estimated €1.2 million, according to an assessment by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. This is the core of the problem, which none of the opponents hopes to say out loud, because no one wants to appear in front of the Slovenian public like the ugly one, is bad enough not to give 1.2 million euros for the students and for their diet, although that is precisely the reason for the opposition. We don't have to pretend here anymore. The direction of this government is quite clear: to take on the poor, to give to the rich, to take on the public good, to grant subsidies to private people and, in today's particular case, to take on students and to give privileged academic elites. That's really what we've been doing for two hours now, and we've been spinning around like cats around hot porridge. That's what's real today. If I go slowly to the end. However, I would like to commend some of the arguments, but we have also heard them today, which have dealt with real matter. They have challenged the social situation of the students, they have challenged the student work, they have challenged the shortage of jobs, but unfortunately this story stops here because some of the answers that have been given on these topics have gone more or less towards reducing labour rights, towards more liberalisation, towards more commercialisation, etc., but at least the right materials have been touched, meaning that we have made one progress in view of the debate that we have been used to in this national assembly, though. At the same time, we also talked about such trivialities, whether someone can eat a meal in an hour or not. What we need to do here, and what we have also said in the United Left, is to broaden our view, broaden the context of today's debate, and very quickly it becomes clear to us that in reality the logic of the austerity measures, which has been introduced by the Public Finance Balance Act, which, of course, today is served by the Government, composed of the Party of Mir Cerar, Desus and the Social Democrats. Below the line is today's debate on whether we are taking rights or extending rights, of course, in the United Left we are very firm in the position that these rights need to be extended and that is why we will also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor, and Mrs Martina Vuk and Tomaž Lisec are also prepared as a candidate. Here you go, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much. You wouldn't think that this debate is due to the extension of two hours in the evening to the use of student vouchers and so many populist words, not on our side, but on the part of the coalition. And look, ZUJF, which is now the most controversial one, if we've accepted it and now we're fixing it, I think I have to agree here with Pojbic that we're correcting mistakes, why not, but you've even extended the ZUJF. If you remember, in December 2014, you extended the ZUJF, i.e. measures in the area of salaries and other labour costs, until the end of 2015. Luka Mesec, where you say that you do not support this in the United Left, said: "In the United Left we will vote in favour, but only because we do not want to minimize the social agreement with the unions." So in the United Left, you also supported the ZUJF, supported by the entire coalition, and no one talks about it. But I'm wondering when you're going to start fixing it, so you're going to be on the same page as you're telling us today. But I hear about the populist proposals every night now on TV about debt relief in large and broad terms. These are populist matters that the government will now be, whether I don't know who, or even the National Assembly will be forced to say we have to cancel debts, regardless of whether yes or no, you have to cancel debts to businesses – some companies are already doing so – but these are populist things. Two hours to extend in the evening the use of student vouchers, but I don't think it's populist. Here I have to agree with my colleague Kordish that some of those who spoke today seem to have not been in the student era. When the art academy is mentioned, the hour when they have time does not wander, but they also have certain obligations within the academy. And the students who are there explained to me that in fact there are some tools there for this area that they can't carry home, so they take the time to do those exercises they need at the academy. That's why I said they didn't make it in an hour. However, as far as we are concerned, we are dealing with matters that are not currently relevant to our government or our country, but I fully agree. But bring something to the table. Otherwise, the meeting would take two hours if our proposals were not available. Take a look at the agenda of the session, if there are no suggestions, the meeting may take two hours. And now you're telling us we're dealing with things that don't matter! If we bring system solutions, you'll find a thousand reasons why the government will do that. We brought volunteers – no, that's what the government will do! All right, we're waiting - there's nothing yet. If we bring partials – they're not systemic solutions, it's not okay. Bring it, Vlada! Three in a row, if we don't have our proposals, we can go home. No problem! You'd better take a look at this, look at the agenda, the coalition, when you say we're dealing with problems. I would much rather deal with economic measures; much sooner than with such matters. Think about it! I don't think this extension is a disaster for our country for two hours, but it's good for the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you for the replica, chairman. In the United Left, we have never, or in any way, voted in favour of the logic of the austerity measures or the Law on the Balance of Public Finances in our case. Never and never! Because austerity measures are not only anti-human, they not only redistribute from those who do not have to to those who are already super rich. At the same time, in the context of the development of a country in peripheral capitalism, it is completely contrary to one development policy, even if we remain within the political horizon. So please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u65	Mr. Miha Kordish, thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Mrs Martina Vuk, Secretary of State, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! To conclude: we may have forgotten what is actually an essential question to answer in the light of today's debate on amending the law on student nutrition subsidies. This key question is whether the regulation we have in the Republic of Slovenia regarding student diet is appropriate or not, whether it is good or not, or whether it regulates what this arrangement is intended for. In the beginning, you have heard from the Minister, in fact, this is the unikam of our arrangement, that you can cash in a voucher at any restaurant that is selected on the invitation, and it is 550, these are all restaurants, these are not just cafeterias, these are not just dormitory establishments, these are all very different restaurants where you can cash these vouchers. The purpose of the regulation of this area was that each student and every student would be entitled to a one-day workday quota per month, which means that when the study process is under way, that the voucher could then be cashed at the time when the study process is under way. Now, if the study process isn't what's going on in colleges, but it's when someone's studying, how someone's getting knowledge, how someone's learning, then it's obviously wrong that the right to apply this voucher is only enabled on a working day. Or is it? It is precisely when students and students spend most of their time taking part in lectures, exercises and other forms of the study process, in which this study process is carried out, that at a time when they are not at home, when they are not where they are staying, they can take advantage of this student voucher and enjoy a subsidised hot meal. Subsidized. Now we get to how it is always saved and only those who don't, those who are the poorest, those who barely survive, and that we don't understand it. Subsidisation of student diet is a universal right that is bound solely and solely to the status of a student or student. It's not about censorship, but it's about universal justice, because we've assessed it, when it was accepted that it was also possible for everyone, regardless of the environment, regardless of what they have or what their parents don't have, to have a subsidised one hot meal. But if we look at all this now, then it's time to cash this voucher from 8:00 in the morning to 8:00 in the evening. Probably none of us — even if someone were like that among us, would eat just one meal a day. We're supposed to be eating more meals a day. Which means those vouchers don't cover the entire nutritional needs of one student or student. This is the possibility that they can afford a complete meal consisting of several meals and so on. Therefore, the Regulation also prescribes health guidelines as prescribed by the NIJS, the current shortcut because I do not remember now [[…]] [[background advertising]] , Institute for Public Health, so, National Institute for Public Health. Now that we are spreading all of this when we talk about everything else, what are the arguments that we are opposed to, how you did not or did not justify, why we would not accept it, the real question is what is the argument that the possibility of using student vouchers is prolonged for these two hours. What is this argument? If the argument is that everyone is studying when it suits him best, then it is also appropriate for him to eat when it suits him most, and it can also be at 2:00 in the morning. That is why we will now allow people who have difficulty enjoying a meal to enjoy this meal between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m., but it is not a solid argument which is in favour of saving people who do not have to allow students to continue using student vouchers. We also know what it was like to use these student vouchers in the past. Probably all those who were active students and students in one way or another, you can also understand under the nicknames, student officials and officials and many others, including some innkeepers who lived very well on this account. We know how those vouchers were cashing out. Therefore, a different system of cashing has been set up because there have been abuses. Therefore, each time, as I said in the introduction, it is necessary to answer the question whether the current regulation of the area under consideration is appropriate or not. That's a key question. In our view, the current regime is very appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Once again, I understand that the coalition is impatient, without the SDS we would be on vacation today. On the other hand, they also have one problem – in the SDS Group we have, in cooperation with the Council of Experts, a work programme that we want to implement. Our program. Moreover, because they are unsuccessful with the Government, because we are opposition, certain people are also turning to us and asking us; if, the government does not want to hear us, you try, you are only the biggest opposition party, try to do something, and maybe you will get the support of someone else. This is how I thank the representatives of New Slovenia, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the United Left for their support of this law. I hope that another vote will be joined by tomorrow's vote. On the other hand, the government has a program of work, at least it has one written. The way he does it, the timelines they have at the same time say a lot about not talking about everything else. I'll tell you my case. The minister of this government writes: March 30th, the cut-off date when we accept. On April 10th, he says we can't accept because we're understaffed. If we didn't have enough personnel, there would be another reason and a third and a fourth. In short, we have a program and a timeline in the SDS and we work. If the government has a time machine, they don't know how to make it stop working. For the last time, one colleague told me, because it is better that the Government does not propose any law in the National Assembly, because every government law makes matters worse in certain areas of work and, on the other hand, what this government has in its agenda is true. She talks a lot about what she's going to do, and then, when you have to go from theory to practice, you have to study, think, set up commissions and so on. We in the National Assembly, which is usually responsible for everything, even for border disputes between ministers and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, want to make a difference, and this government, together with a coalition of five veins, is drawing some kind of polar argument as to why they are against. In short, this law, at least in my opinion as a proponent, I thought, here, some purely technical law, we extend the possibility of using subsidised student vouchers instead of 20 to 22 hours. Each of us has one, if he does not have a child, a son, a partner or someone who is somehow connected to a student's life, but thank God, a small budget for our family, perhaps a little larger for the country, but the country has committed itself to providing students a warm meal, and if it is provided by 22 p.m., there is no problem, but if we give any hungry student a warm meal by 22 p.m. And when we talk about a meal, I would like once again to draw attention to the 2007 law – yes, the notorious Janša government has amended the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, where it clearly states: In the invitation to tender, the quality of food and its price are taken into account as a priority criterion. At the time, I was in another position in the National Assembly, and I know when the bill came, and we coordinated within the coalition, and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service came, and we said, "Let's make the law as good as possible." We have even imposed sanctions on this law, but what can happen to the tenderer if he does not respect the law. We've given the government time to adopt a rule where we determine exactly what and how in this area. If some fast food uses the quality of food as its argument to succeed in the invitation to tender, and I really repeat it, it is not the SDS fault, but we are not guilty of much else, even though we are characterised. Maybe a few things to Mr. Kordish. In the SDS, we agree that there are a lot of problems in the field of students, youth, higher education, I hope that you will also make a law, because we have a few more intentions to file, and I hope that even though we are sitting diametrically opposite, there will be a technical or systemic solution to improve something. Mr Kordiša would only point out that the SOS at ZUJF agreed with the change at that time, but now students want to be allowed what was once before, and we have listened to them; like New Slovenia, the United Left and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, and the coalition works by thinking and voting against the laws. One last thing Mr. Kordish said before. I will read again the quote of his client colleague Luke Moon in the December 2014 amendment of the ZUJF – measures in the area of salaries and other public sector labour costs, quote: "In the United Left we will vote in favour, but only because we do not wish to mine the social agreement with the unions." Otherwise, in the end, according to the outcome of the vote, a little "pump" and you probably put the card out or you weren't present at the vote. So much so that you announced once the support of the ZUJF, and then in the end you got a little scared. Let me get this straight. The amendment of this law would not undermine any systemic solution that we consider to be good – a respected secretary of state, is good at the moment – but could be even better for a student if we extended the time from 20 to 22:00. There wouldn't be 100,000 students in restaurants by 10:00, but maybe someone could. I've already mentioned several times how different the reasons are, why all students are not at the study centers from morning to late evening: financial distress at home, spatial distress, family affairs such and different; in short, there is always a reason. Why not make a technical change in the law to someone, and to some, a certain part of the student population, by allowing us, in accordance with his or her rhythm of life, to allow a warm meal through a subsidized student diet by 22 p.m. In short, as a proponent, I expected, given that it was a technical law, a lot of support without any reflection on whether or not the ZUJF was good or bad, or which government it was and which government was not and what it was, and who is doing it to support this law. I believe that all those who are masters and doctors, but once you had to be students, that you acted on the study processes – regularly or irregularly, I don't know, except maybe those who came to college, you signed up, you crammed your diploma, you made a plagiarism, and then you didn't need student vouchers because you used that time for other things, but that somehow you used subsidized student food, and that you understood young people that they had different reasons to want something after 10:00; and maybe twice a year that situation comes along. No! No! This government said: we do not support this. The reasons are this and different, which is suddenly the health problem of young people, the finances are not right again, and the government itself is investing laws without financial consequences, at least so it writes, although practice, we know how different – but we know why the law will fall. One mistake – the proposer! Once again, thank all those who support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you. Two things. In the United Left, we supported a wage agreement with the public sector unions because it did not contain a reduction in social rights and did not contain any provisions on the reduction of the number of employees. Which contained anything like that, we refused. It's like making some kind of terrible loop, like we're in the United Left now, that ZUJF is great, but it's really hard rhetorical acrobation. That's the first thing. Second thing. As far as the consent or disagreement of the social partners is concerned. Just because you sign an agreement doesn't mean you agree with it. This means only that the social force relationship has been such that you have estimated at some point that you have negotiated as best you can under the pressure of the government, demonized you, bullied you in the media, and so on, and that you have endured as much as you can under such circumstances, and that is why you land and sign one thing. It's a light-year away from you agreeing to something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. You took your time. Whoever wanted to got the word, but we didn't spend all the minutes in time. Therefore, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, if anyone else wishes to discuss it, please apply. Will anyone else discuss it? No, no, no. Then I thank and conclude the debate on the bill. Whether the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided in the context of the vote tomorrow, 24 April. I hereby conclude the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE SOCIETY PROTECTION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly conduct a general hearing. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Marjan Pojbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u72	She's been around for a long time. [[microphone off]] The law proposes to abolish the prohibition on the availability of real estate and the burdens of social protection for those receiving social protection aid, the most numerous of which are financial social assistance and the protection allowance. We also propose to abolish the recovery of social assistance from the property of the prodigal who has been socially threatened. This is the only way to achieve that social assistance is worthy of its name and is in line with the principle of the social state and is not only an interest-free loan that the State lends to the socially disadvantaged and is then paid from their modest assets. Thus, the Republic of Slovenia would follow the countries of the European Union which have one of the lowest poverty rates, such as Finland, Sweden, Switzerland, Belgium and others, for example Italy and Spain. The return of social benefits from the prodigal property was already legal in Slovenia in 1977, which is the time of the previous regime, which declared itself social and fair, and was in fact far from that. At the time of the succession of beneficiaries in recent years, however, the dimensions of this unfair provision have become apparent. In 2010, a new social legislation was adopted under Minister Svetlik, which began in January 2012 and secured the return of social assistance by prohibiting the recipients from having their fixed assets in their possession. At the same time, this legislation deleted state pensions and a protective allowance intended for the elderly and incapacitated for work defined as a social transfer, which meant that after the death of the prodigal, he should be returned from the property of the prodigal. The legislation adopted under Minister Svetlik was an attack on rural areas, a deterioration of the situation of the most socially disadvantaged and elderly, as well as of pensioners with the lowest pensions. Although there has been a lot of talk under the legislation of the then coalition on the issue of fair legislation that will improve the situation of the socially disadvantaged, data today show that the risk of poverty since the adoption of this legislation is still increasing, the number of protective supplements intended for the elderly at risk has been reduced by 78% due to the solution in Svetlik's legislation at that time. During the second Janša government, this legislation could not be amended in 2012, as analyses were carried out on the impact of this legislation on the social situation of beneficiaries and when the analyses were carried out, the government lost its mandate due to the illegal report of the PKK and thus the possibility of proposing appropriate solutions with majority support. We are aware that the current solutions are not necessarily unconstitutional, since the Constitutional Court has explained that the return of social assistance thus follows the objective not to be received by those who are not entitled to them. However, it must be borne in mind that this decision has taken place at a time when the new social legislation has not been adopted and has not yet provided for a thorough review of the social situation of each individual of the beneficiaries through data and currently accessible records. It is therefore only for the State to be responsible to verify that the individual is able to meet the criteria of social risk all the time to receive social assistance. Any return of social assistance or a prohibition on the possession of property is considered to be a disproportionate intervention to justify the granting of credit to the socially disadvantaged country instead of being granted social assistance as they know it in other European countries. With this bill, we want this issue to be addressed in cooperation with all parliamentary groups, in particular the SMC, Desus, SD, which have committed themselves in the coalition contract to solving this problem, and in their statements and positions have consistently stressed the importance of social justice, particularly when it comes to pensioners and other most vulnerable social groups. Ladies and gentlemen, you now have the opportunity to move from words to action in solving this social issue as soon as possible. The draft law is prepared by amending it in the legislative process or by supplementing it with compromise proposals. In the event that the law is rejected in the first reading, this is an additional indication that most of the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia speak [[sign for the end of the debate]] also in the area of social protection and at the expense of the weak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Martini Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The bill before you today proposes to delete the provisions in the current Law on Social Security Benefits which provide for the entry into force of the prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for beneficiaries of financial social assistance and a protective allowance and the full obligation to recover social assistance received from the heritage of beneficiaries of social assistance, while the restriction on inheritance should not apply in accordance with the Law on Succession until the adoption of a new system of succession. The position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is that the proposed law is not supported for the following reasons. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already ruled on the constitutionality of Article 128 of the Succession Act and has decided that it is legitimate for the grantor to be able to pay from the property of the procurator. It found that the intervention in the right to private property and inheritance was necessary for the protection of other constitutional rights, namely the right to social security of other citizens, i.e. those without the property provided by the Republic of Slovenia, because it is incumbent on it to ensure social security for all citizens. However, on the basis of the right to social security, the social state must not compromise this right of others. The Social Protection Act has always provided for the possibility of securing the municipality's claim by marking the prohibition of alienation and the burden on the property of the beneficiary of the exemption of payments or the contribution to the payment of family assistant services. In addition, the Republic of Slovenia extended that provision to the indication of the prohibition on the disposal and real estate of the beneficiary of the financial social assistance or the protective allowance. In all cases where the heirs are in need of assistance, it shall be said after the death of the person who received a protective allowance or financial social assistance, if it is found that his heir, that is to say his children, is in principle in need of such assistance, that the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality, pursuant to Article 129 of the Succession Act, is already cancelling the right to repay the aid paid. The Institute for the Registration of the Ban on Derogation and Loading is therefore a means of insurance by which the State seeks to protect its claim or right. However, the purpose of this institute was never to reduce the number of beneficiaries of monetary aid, which is also evident. In 2012, an average of 47 000 880 recipients of cash social assistance in 2013 was 50 000 648 and in 2014 56 000, about, on average, monthly recipients of cash social assistance. On the basis of an assessment of the impact of the implementation of the new social legislation prepared by the Institute for Social Protection, a new Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection Benefits was adopted. And there have changed or rectified those major shortcomings that have proved to be urgent and immediate changes since the application of this law. Thus, the succession of the prodigal’s assets was limited to two thirds of the funds received by the prodigal under the Social Security Benefits Act. The inheritance was also limited to the amount of cash social assistance, a reduction of 12 maximum monthly amounts, and one third of the remaining monthly amounts of aid received. This means that there is no limitation on inheritance if it is to receive financial social assistance for up to 12 months or if the prisoner has received extraordinary cash assistance, no matter how many times he has received it. It should also be pointed out that the law distinguishes between the property or property in which the beneficiary lives or the other property he may have. It is important to say that it is also stipulated in the Coalition Agreement that the beneficiaries of the protection allowance, which is held at a lower value, will be relieved [[sign for the end of the debate]] property and we do not deviate from this undertaking. [[…]] However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support this proposal because of the foregoing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! For the Social Democrats, the quality life of all people is a key asset that must be protected as a public good, accessible to all. Social democracy believes that it is the duty of the state to create equality of opportunity for all people. The State must have mechanisms in place to correct injustices and inequalities, to establish security and to guide development. It is necessary to make access to the exercise of rights as easily as possible and at the same time to the obligations of the community. Responsible citizenship is based on the awareness of a citizen or citizen that he is part of the community and thus also of the rights and duties associated with him. In the context of social protection policies, the State and local communities are obliged to provide conditions in which individuals can participate creatively and realize their development potential and achieve a level and quality of life that meets the criteria of human dignity. At the same time, it is worth stressing that social transfers are intended for those who have nothing and cannot support themselves. Therefore, those who are themselves and for their family members cannot be provided with a minimum income for reasons they could not influence. To those who cannot survive, provide themselves with work, work rights or insurance by means of income from property and other sources, or by compensations or benefits under other regulations, or by means of those who are obliged to survive it, or by other means provided for by law. But everyone else who owns any property has to activate this property for their survival. Where individuals and families cannot provide social security on their own, they are entitled to the assistance provided by the State and the local community within the framework of active social policies. In assessing the constitutionality of the Succession Act, the Constitutional Court ruled that it was legitimate for the grantor to be able to repay from the forfeiter's property. It has found that intervention in the right to private property and inheritance is necessary for the protection of other constitutional rights, this is the right to social security of other citizens guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia, as it is the duty to ensure social security for all citizens. The social state, on the basis of the right to social security, must not jeopardise this right by unduly pooring the funds to provide this assistance. The Constitutional Court has also found that the right to private property and inheritance for an heir does not give rise to the right to inherit the property of the prodigal without being prepared at the same time to accept any obligations relating to the succession of the prodigal property. This includes the obligation to recover the value of the social assistance given to the person concerned received from the State. This aid preserved the value of the property that was the subject of inheritance after his death during the time of the prodigal’s life. According to the Constitutional Court, it is essential that heirs have an entirely autonomous choice of whether to recover the aid received and inherit the entire legacy or to allow the exclusion of part of the legacy in favour of the grantor. Otherwise, the State would unduly reduce the means of providing assistance to others who need it because they do not have other appropriate means of living. The Succession Act also provides that by the end of the legacy treatment, the grantor may also waive the right to repay this aid if the beneficiary’s heirs — his spouse or his children — are themselves in need of assistance. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia eliminated the most urgent shortcomings of social legislation as early as 2013, when it adopted certain amendments to legislation that proved to be the most attractive in practice. Thus, on 1 January 2014, changes to social legislation were in force, which, inter alia, gave effect to the fact that there was no longer a need to repay the emergency social assistance money received by a person for 12 months or less. If it has received more than 12 months, the inheritance shall be limited by deducting from the aid received first the twelve maximum monthly amounts and then one third of the remaining monthly amounts of the aid received. The maximum reduction compared to the previous arrangement was found at the same time as the remuneration of the protective allowance. Therefore, they have also extended the general conditions for eligibility in this area. In order to obtain a protective allowance, the property or money of a single person of up to EUR 2 000 500 or a family of up to EUR 3 000 500 shall not be taken into account. Since many individuals have decided to waive this right in order to record the prohibition on the disposal and loading of property, it is now considered that the limitation on the inheritance of the property of the person receiving the security allowance may be limited to only two thirds of the value of the aid received. Of course, already accepted corrections still do not represent an optimal solution. The Government is also preparing solutions for shortcomings and inconsistencies that remain and require more thorough changes and analyses, including the issue of the prohibition of diversion and burden. In accordance with the Coalition Agreement, beneficiaries of a security allowance that is of minor value will be relieved of the prohibition on the disposal of property. In accordance with the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme 2013-2020, corrections to the various areas of the social security system will, in a broader sense, be aimed at improving the situation of the most socially vulnerable groups within the framework of general solidarity and, on the other hand, establishing systems of additional social security. We believe that the proposal of the novel undermines the social protection system based on social justice, solidarity and on the principles of equal accessibility and free choice of forms, so we cannot support the bill in the proposed text. We will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u78	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The level of poverty risk in Slovenia is still lower than in most European countries, but this should not be a reason for satisfaction and an excuse for non-action. On the contrary, this information says that the phenomenon of poverty in Slovenia is fortunately manageable and that it could also be tackled by conscious political action. According to the different criteria in Slovenia, between 4 and 6% of people live in severe shortages. One of the main tasks of any government should therefore be to ensure that 80 000 to 120 000 people are given a decent life. Slovenia has set itself a target under the Europe 2020 programme to reduce the number of statistically poor by 40,000. We believe that this is too modest and that the government should aim at eliminating absolute poverty by 2020, even with favourable economic forecasts. This is not a matter of billions of measures, as they were, for example, needed for the rehabilitation of the banking system, but mostly for significantly smaller measures, in the ranking of some 10 million euro, which are completely manageable in terms of the budget, it is only a matter of priority and political will. Unfortunately, this political will still does not exist, although all the parties have a mouthful of concern for poverty and prosperity. Otherwise, Slovenia would not distance itself from already modest targets and inadequately defined Europe 2020 strategies every year. Slovenia is one of the few countries in Europe where poverty continues to increase. Social workers and humanitarian organisations are warning that poverty is not only increasing, but also deepening. So the poor are not only more, but they are also more and more poor. Ever since 1991, there has been a trend towards exacerbation of the conditions for obtaining different types of social assistance. As early as 2007, only 10 reasons for refusing social assistance were mentioned in the Social Protection Act. In a law adopted by the Social Democratic Government in 2010, this number jumped from 10 to 30. And these conditions are now no longer referred to as rejection conditions for social assistance, but as guilty. This change is not random. Social aid applicants are now treated in some way as offenders who abuse the system. In 2010, when Dr. Svetlik, the then minister, the father of the reform, explained this reform, he said in the media: "From 18% to 20% of the public spending we spend in an inappropriate way." In short, if we simplify his claim, there should be 20% fraud in our system. These words were said more or less in mind, as according to Dr. Dragos and Dr. Leskovšev, from the Faculty of Social Work in Ireland and the UK, where research and records are responsible for these things, there are about 1% of abuses, including system errors. There's no reason why we should have anything different here. In short, the 2010 reform was designed to discipline the socially disadvantaged, although the Ministry did not have reliable data on abuses. A new significant computer system was introduced to verify data on applicants and recipients from as many as 30 different information bases. If I do some caricatures, the tycoon is covered by bank secrecy and the cash and social assistance centre reviews all accounts to see if there is a possible deposit of any euro. This brings us to the problem that is being addressed by today's proposal. Indeed, in 2010, the Social Democratic Government introduced the refundability of a protective allowance, making monetary social assistance and a social security allowance no longer a social right, but becoming some kind of credit, loans that the recipient or his descendants must repay to the State. It is true that the Heritage Act of 1976 and 1978, which allowed the State and the municipality to pay from the legacy of the recipient, had already been in force, but the law had not been implemented and the recipients of social assistance reported that they had received answers at social work centres that they did not need to be reimbursed. That the law was a dead letter on paper, the Government also acknowledges in its opinion that the Republic of Slovenia was unable to effectively protect its rights until the Social Protection Benefits Act was amended in 2010. But it soon turned out that there was something very wrong with this law, and this was at the time of its entry into force in 2012. At that time, the Social Protection Institute found that 16 thousand 100 persons who had been entitled to a protective allowance for the application of this Act had been waived. The number of recipients in the category up to 63 years has decreased by 77% in one year and 68% in the category above 63 years – I quote the research of this institute. Given that the social situation in Slovenia has not improved since 2012, it is clear that this drastic reduction in the recipients of social assistance and the protection allowance was precisely due to these changes that have turned social aid into credit. I provide this information because the Government, in its opinion on the proposal, lists the reverse data. It says that the number of recipients of monetary social assistance increased in 2014 and 2013. This is possible, but it should be borne in mind that in 2013 and 2014, the number of recipients increased: firstly, because in 2012 it decreased by as much as 70%, secondly because the social situation in 2013 and 2014 was further deteriorating, and thirdly, because in 2013 there was a change in the law because the then government noticed that something was seriously wrong with this law. As we have already heard before, in 2013 there was a two-thirds limit on the reimbursement of social assistance and an additional social assistance guard, so that only aid received by an individual for more than 12 months is now taken into account. Moreover, in the opinion of the Government or in the reply of Member Lászlú Gönč, there was a record that the coalition also tended to eliminate the return of a protective allowance to recipients who owned only a minor property. In short, there was a consensus that something was wrong with this law and that the return of social assistance should begin to be eliminated. I therefore do not understand why the coalition and the Government oppose the law at first reading and why they insist on preparing their new law instead of trying to find a common solution on this occasion. I think there are only three points that need to be consolidated in a second reading. And these are: for the first time, whether we should burden only recipients of a security allowance that owns a smaller property, or all recipients of a security allowance, regardless of the property in which they live. Secondly, whether we should burden only recipients of a protective allowance or also recipients of social assistance, and thirdly, whether we should abolish only the prohibition of availability and disposal in the Social Security Benefits Act or also in the Succession Act. And if I go a little bit in a row to illustrate the opinion of the Association of Lefts on these dilemmas. As for the first, it is said whether we should relieve only those recipients of a protective supplement living in smaller properties or all, we are the following. An old or disabled pensioner with less than €465 per month's own income is entitled to a protective allowance. This isn't about pension, it's about all the income. Let me say that the statistical threshold of poverty for a single person is €593, which amounts to €130 more than that. This also takes into account its assets, including all properties, including the property in which the applicant lives if the apartment exceeds 60 square metres. In this case, this is taken into account when the protective allowance is measured and the protective allowance is lower, taking into account that with these square metres over 60 square metres, an individual generates some income, although not really. It is important to be aware that in Slovenia many people live in residential homes, which are relatively large, do not generate any income and are not a sign of property. But sometimes in Slovenia every ordinary worker could also build a house, even this model was dominant in the countryside. Unfortunately, the economic situation has changed so much that what used to be a standard has become unimaginable today. However, it is important to be aware that these properties are often no longer of normal quality and that they cause high costs and that people who live in them often have no option. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable that these people are discriminated against in this way because we cannot force them to sell their house in Haloza or White Krajina, so they would not get enough money to buy any wardrobe in any of the cities. So here in the United Left, we feel that, according to the type of settlement we have in Slovenia, we need to look to this to be taken into account also in social legislation and to allow all people, regardless of the size of the property in which they live, to normally receive protective supplements. Then it's about the second dilemma. It is said whether we should burden only recipients of a protective allowance or recipients of social assistance. Even here in the United Left we do not see a valid reason why someone who receives social assistance for 12 months should not return anything, but someone who is dependent on it, for example, for two years, must return two thirds of what he received in the second year of receiving. For us, this is as unacceptable as if someone remembered that a child allowance, a large family allowance, a subsidised kindergarten payment, a subsidised diet or a subsidy to stay in a dormitory should be started. It is unacceptable that any type of social assistance becomes a credit in some way. In fact, there is only one difference: long-term social assistance is received by those who do not have social power, do not have their unions, do not hear them in the media, do not have political parties to represent them, and so they have become policy targets at some point in time. In the United Left, we will therefore do our utmost to change this and to improve the situation of the socially disadvantaged and one of the measures on this path is certainly the abolition of the return of long-term social assistance. We're already hearing objections here, if we go this way, people will be demoted to work or they won't want to work anymore. Here I would like to say that Slovenia had practically 40 years after World War II full employment, and although social legislation was not as strict as it is today, it was not that people would not want to work. If that wasn't the problem at the time, I don't know what the problem would be today when we have 120,000 unemployed, and I think there are very few people in Slovenia who would replace the minimum wage, which is about €600 with transportation and nutrition supplements, for example, €269 of social assistance. Instead of searching everywhere for abuse, let us make sure that because of unreasonable conditions, no one else will be left without help when he needs it most. With regard to the third dilemma, whether to eliminate only the prohibition of availability and disposal in the Social Security Benefits Act or also in the Succession Act, we have the following opinions. We already have extremely strict prices and procedures in Slovenia in which people are practically naked in checking. This not only prevents abuse but also prevents many people from receiving social assistance. This is one of the conditions that deters people from even asking for help, it is said, one of the conditions that deters people most from what we saw earlier in the case of 2012, when this law came into force, is one of the conditions that deters people from just returning social assistance. Here is already a well-known chronical argument, or Crohn’s argument, which follows from the 1997 Constitutional Court’s decision: the state must ensure social rights for all, and therefore must not unduly destitute budget revenues. But the recipients of social assistance have proven to be living in a serious shortage, that is, their assets are checked from more than 30 bases, and if they did not live in a serious shortage, they would be extremely difficult to get through all the censorship. I don't know who then says that helping these people is an unjustified budget poverty. Helping these people is the highest constitutional and moral requirement. And it is quite cynical that the socially endangered people who have built their own house with their own efforts or efforts of their ancestors are now manifest that they are poor in the budget. These people don't run fiscal policies. The budget is poor to governments by their fiscal rule and by not increasing income in areas where there are large reserves. This is the last time I've talked about where there are reserves that the government should use. Slovenia on average collects 35.7% of taxes, the EU average is almost 40%. So we have a lot of reserves on tax policy. One of the most pressing gaps is capital taxes, which are on average 20% in the European Union, half of us. In Slovenia we have virtually non-existent taxes on luxury and property taxes, and these are all options where the budget could be strengthened at the income level. In addition, the reserves are also on the expenditure side. If it were not for TES 6, if we were not to overpay highways, if there were no expenditure on NATO liaison and a fair tax reform had been carried out, the only way to start is to raise the income tax, for example, to the level they have in Austria, is to quickly find sufficient resources to tackle absolute poverty. Our society, Slovenia, generates 2.2 billion euros per year in surplus in foreign trade. This is one of the biggest surpluses in the European Union, but the problem is that this money concentrates on the rich rather than justly spread around society. And that should be the government's job. The State budget is therefore not poorer than the socially disadvantaged. It has been poored by those who have been leading our fiscal policy and state supply for the past 10 years. There are no fiscal reasons for returning social assistance and protective allowances. These are just excuses and, of course, we will support the proposed changes in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! Since 2008, the level of risk of poverty has been steadily increasing, and Christian Democrats have been constantly reminded. We estimate that many left-wing actions have not been taken. The new Law on Social Security benefits draws attention to official data from the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, which indicate the devastating consequences of a poor response to the economic and social crisis. The number of recipients of cash social assistance has increased significantly since 2012; from 418 thousand 211 to 572 thousand 346 in 2014. On the other hand, the number of recipients of the protection allowance decreased dramatically by 78 % following the introduction of amendments to the social legislation of the then Minister Svetlik in 2012. Many older ones, especially those over the age of 66, have given up receiving a protective allowance in fear of losing their property, where they live or without the ability to dispose of it. In fact, it was a fear, and so it was that the state could put a restraining order on it. Christian Democrats draw attention to the findings of the Institute for Social Protection, which notes in the report Social Situation in Slovenia 2013-2014 that on average, on the basis of low pensions, the elderly have very high levels of risk of poverty. Especially women, but in 2013 there was also a marked increase in the risk of poverty of older men. The transfer of the protective allowance to the social transfer system has radically reduced the number of recipients of the protective allowance and has continued to decline since 2012. A key reason for the loss of the protective allowance is the failure to enforce the rights of the elderly. We do not have data on how to survive and how or not their social networks have taken on a larger support role since 2012. We also do not have data on former recipients of state pensions which did not result from pension insurance, since this right was abolished as new social legislation as of 2012. The pressures of the elderly are only increasing. We will support the proposed amendment by the Christian Democrats, and those responsible should, as soon as possible, fully regulate the area in a way that respects human dignity. Currently, Karitas, the Red Cross, and other charities care the most about this in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u82	Your Honor! The SDS Group of Members and Members of the SDS Party with the amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act proposes to delete in the current law the provisions establishing the entry into force of the prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for beneficiaries of financial social assistance and a social security allowance and the obligation to recover the social assistance received from the beneficiary of the social assistance, namely the receipt of cash social assistance, the security allowance, the exemption of social security payments and the contribution to the payment or payment of the family assistant's rights. They also propose that the limitation of succession under Articles 128 and 129 of the Succession Act should not apply until a new system of succession is adopted. The motion for a new law arguing that the prohibition on the possession and burden of real estate constitutes a disproportionate measure in the right to social security, which does not pursue a legitimate and effective objective. We cannot agree with these statements in the Alliance. We remind the proposer of the Act of Action of 1976, which has always stipulated that the inheritance of the property of the person receiving the aid in accordance with the social protection rules is limited to the amount of the aid received. The socialist social regulation of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, which referred to the economic, social and personal security of workers as the basis of the 1974 Constitution, and solidarity and reciprocity between everyone and everyone, knew or included that measure. In socialism, too, or with the proponents, we have understood that the State has a duty to ensure social security for all and that it must not be threatened with unjustified poverty by means of social assistance. In addition, the applicants also misinterpret or apply the 1997 Constitutional Court Decision, which decided that it was legitimate for the grantor to be able to pay off the property of the procurator. The applicants further state that the Institute of Social Security of the Republic of Slovenia points to a significant trend in the decline in the number of recipients of a protective supplement aged 66. The reduced number of recipients of the protective supplement is due to the fact that many older ones do not want to be banned from their property because they understand this as an intervention in their personal dignity because it is the only property they have and for which they have saved their entire lives. We would like to remind the proposer that the number of recipients of financial social assistance in Slovenia is increasing. At the beginning of this year there were almost 54,000, about 4,000 beneficiaries more than last year. This is also due to the fact that aid is no longer needed, so it is understandable that more people are asking for it. Last year, the amendments to the laws we adopted in 2013, which, inter alia, eased inheritance in monetary social assistance, entered into force. Exceptional social assistance is not returned, and with monetary social assistance it was limited to return to inheritance. Thus, the succession of the prodigal property was limited to the amount of two thirds of the funds received by the procurator from the protection allowance under the Social Security Benefits Act. However, if the procurator has received financial social assistance for more than 12 months, the succession of the procurator’s property has been limited to the amount of the financial social assistance reduced by 12 maximum monthly amounts and then reduced by another third of the remaining monthly amounts of the aid received. The succession of the prodigal property shall not be limited if this financial social assistance has been granted for 12 months or less and has received exceptional financial social assistance. But it is true that social hardships are also on the rise, and we cannot be proud of them. In the Alliance, we would like to point out that, when referring to the analysis of the Institute for Social Protection, they have forgotten to mention that the amendment of social legislation and the Public Finance Balance Act, adopted under the mandate of the Government of Janez Janša, has been most affected by the medium layer. The effects did not show up until the end of 2013, which meant that the previous government could no longer stop due to the early conclusion of the mandate of this trend. The level of risk of poverty has increased and the analysis also shows that the lower middle class is one of the largest victims. Their revenues have been reduced, but they are still above the price to obtain any revenue from public funds. We therefore find it absurd that today the applicants find that the amended legislation has reduced the number of recipients of the protection allowance, which they consider to be disproportionate to the measures taken by the State to ensure social security. The SDS party did not even consider such a change when it was in government in 2012. Even more so, the Public Finance Balance Act has broken down social security benefits, and we are therefore assessing this move by the SDS party more than by populism and the unbiased intention of helping beneficiaries. As already mentioned, we have addressed the most urgent shortcomings in 2013 and other shortcomings will have to be addressed by the former and current Minister. In the Alliance Group, we have no doubt that this problem will be tackled professionally and with commitment. In addition, the current ruling coalition has already undertaken in the coalition agreement to relieve the beneficiary of a lower-value property-owned security allowance of the prohibitions on the disposal of property. In the Alliance due to the above arguments, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u84	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits provides for the deletion of provisions laying down the registration of a prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for recipients of financial social assistance and a security allowance and the full obligation to repay the social assistance received from the recipient of social assistance, namely the receipt of cash social assistance, the receipt of a security allowance and the exemption from payment of social security services and the contribution to the payment of funds intended for the payment or payment of the family assistant's rights. For all these forms of assistance, it must be said that they have already been changed from 2010 to today on the basis of perceived problems in the implementation of social legislation and in order to ensure greater social security for individuals. In the case of amendments, at least those relating to monetary social assistance and a security allowance should be highlighted. The 2013 amendment of the Social Security Act extended the range of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and introduced an amendment that did not require the repayment of extraordinary social assistance and monetary social assistance received by a person for 12 months or less. It also touched the realm of inheritance. In the event that a person has received financial social assistance for more than 12 months, the inheritance has been limited by deducting from the aid received first 12 maximum monthly amounts and then another third of the remaining monthly amounts of the aid received. Similarly, changes in the determination of eligibility conditions for a protective additive have been made. Indeed, data on the number of recipients of the safeguard allowance in December 2011 and December 2012 show that the number of recipients has decreased by a good three-quarters. Many individuals have waived the protection allowance in order to record the prohibition on the disposal and loading of property. However, the Social Protection Benefits Act of 2013 introduced a succession restriction, limiting the property of the person receiving the social security allowance to two-thirds of the value of the aid received. When we talk about property, real estate, social transfers and inheritance restrictions, we cannot pass the fact that we have 83% of our own apartments in Slovenia. The housing deficit resulting from the discrepancy between the locations of inhabited dwellings and the needs of the population in suitable locations, the high employment rate of ownership apartments, 77 %, the low level of intergenerational exchanges of dwellings that would allow for optimal living conditions for different generations over a certain period of life, and so on – these are the specifics that need to be taken into account when amending the legislation under consideration. We have committed the coalition partners that we will relieve the beneficiaries of a property-owned security allowance of less value, but not in the way it is presented to us in the bill under consideration. As already established by the Constitutional Court at the time of its assessment of the constitutionality of Article 128 of the Law on Succession, the possibility of paying the social aid paid out of the legacy in accordance with the Constitution is possible. The Republic of Slovenia, as the beneficiary of the aid, may be reimbursed from the property of the prisoner, taking into account the discretionary right to waive the claim in the event of the social danger of the heirs. It would be unfair for a State to allocate taxpayers' money in the form of social transfers to those who are not materially threatened, as would be evident after the death of the prodigal through assets that have also been maintained through social assistance. The latter also refers to the protection of other constitutional rights, namely the right to social security of other citizens, according to which the Republic of Slovenia must not unduly impoverish the Fund for the provision of this assistance. However, the right to private property and inheritance means that the succession of the property of the prodigal cannot be achieved without the acceptance of any obligations. In line with what has been said in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Social Security Benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Have a nice hello again.Oh, my God! In January of this year, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons took note of the report of the Institute of Social Protection in 2013-2014 and in view of previous discussions, because I know that most of them were all on this Committee, I assumed that you have read this report a little more clearly or read it in full, and I am very sorry that you have only summarized certain conclusions in this report. In fact, the report contains research and analysis in the field of social affairs, the report also deals with how social policy legislation affects changes in the social situation of citizens, and if we look back, we know that in 2010, that is, 2010 at the time of the Government of Social Democrats, the so-called Pahor government, was adopted in the National Assembly. This law has, inter alia, transferred rights of a social security nature from the pension system to the social assistance system and, therefore, has also moved these amendments to the area of social assistance and transferred them to the Social Security Benefits Act. So he transferred to the new system, while the state pension was then for a total abolition. Thus, the Law of Light brought the total abolition of the protective — pardon, state pensions. Until that state pension, they were entitled to a pension over 65 years of age which did not have any other income. The law was therefore adopted in 2010 and entered into force with 1. 1. 2012 and that is why the public, in their outrage, went to the then so-called second government of Janša, if that is when the SDS took the state's pension and then passed on all the changes that this law on social security benefits has brought. The law was adopted at that time in the National Assembly with the words of the then Minister Svetlik, I quote: "The purpose of the law is to promote the work of recipients of social assistance, those recipients who are, of course, capable of work. Our goal is to apply the principle of work or encouragement to these recipients for greater work activity or maintenance, and motivation for work. A new amount of the basic amount of minimum income is determined, this is very important in terms of preventing the risk of poverty and social exclusion." End of quote. At the time, the current Minister Kopač Mrakova also defended this Svetlik law, then the secretary-general, and said: "The purpose of this law is to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion and to promote work activity or to maintain motivation for work. By transferring a state pension, abolishing a state pension and transferring a protective allowance to a social assistance system, we are establishing a more transparent and, in particular, a more socially just system." End of quote. Today, unfortunately, the Minister is not here to defend the adoption of the law at that time, in fact to state why, after almost two years of adoption or more than two years of adoption of the Svetlik Law, the Institute for Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia has found a critical position in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of poverty, since the rate of poverty has increased sharply since 2000 in Slovenia, reaching 13.6% in 2013 and 14.5% in 2014. All the information I provide is from this report. In the summer of mid-2013, then Minister Vizjak ordered a study entitled Evaluation of the impact of the implementation of the new social legislation, with the aim of verifying how the law adopted affects the specific categories of the population. We've already heard today that this study was made. It was made in mid-2013. Unfortunately, the then government of the Slovenian Democratic Party could not propose the changes we are proposing today because it was no longer in the government after these findings. However, the new government of Alenka Bratušek at the time, we have heard that, according to the study, made certain changes in the law, but the Institute for Social Protection today warns that these solutions were not entirely good or were not sufficiently implemented. The study carried out by the then government or at that time highlighted some of the weaknesses in the introduction of the Svetlik Law and concluded that we have a poorer material situation than it was in 2010, due mainly to the introduction of new social legislation by single parent families, families with pupils and large families and persons between 50 and 63 years of age, if we are talking about women, and between 50 and 65 years of age, if we are talking about the boundaries for men, and that it is not possible for these families or groups to foresee improvements in the social situation, depending on the current legislation. After all the forecasts of the implementation of the Social Security Act, of course, one would expect that requests for monetary social assistance would be reduced, as this was the purpose of the new social legislation adopted in 2010. At least this is what the then Minister Svetlik and current Minister Mrs Kopač Mrakova announced. If, of course, they followed the objective they stressed at the time, and the principle is worth working for or encouraging these recipients to do more work or to maintain and motivate them to work. But it's different. 1. 9. In 2012, the total number of beneficiaries of social assistance was more than 67 000, which is why we earmarked EUR 10.5 million, 1. 6. In 2014, there were already more than 75 000 beneficiaries, and we earmarked a total of 2 million more to do so. This shows that the social situation is exacerbated for people, as I said, but it is the worst in the area of single parents' families, the elderly, pensioners and, above all, those living alone in their own household. The security allowance was a monthly allowance to a pension lower than the limit amount before the entry into force of the Svetlik Law. It was therefore a kind of correction with a view to improving the material position of the recipient. Following the adoption of the Svetlik Law, the social security allowance received by those beneficiaries who do not have material security cannot be secured because of certain circumstances which are not affected by them. It therefore provides for the coverage of costs incurred over a longer period of time, i.e. for the maintenance of real estate, for example, but is not intended to cover the costs of meeting minimum living needs. Persons who are permanently unemployed or unable to work and over 63 years of age in women and 65 years in men may apply for a protective supplement. As I said or this is data, I apologize, in December 2013, the recipients of this protective supplement were 47 000 good or bad and only 10,000 of them were in force within a year. Therefore, as you have already heard today, a 78% reduction in the application for a protective supplement. However, the greatest reason for this, which is also mentioned in the report of the Institute for Social Protection, is that Svetlik's law, which has legitimized the prohibition of the alienation and burden of the property of the recipient of the protective allowance in favour of the Republic of Slovenia and the restriction on inheritance. Thus, there is always a trend in the reduction of recipients of the protective supplement, mainly in the age group there from 66 years away, and this trend is in fact very worrying. The reduced number of recipients of the protective allowance is also, of course, the result of the fact that many older people do not want to have property for them, if I may say so, that the state has entered that they are prohibited from having real estate. Among other things, older ones see this as an intervention in their personal dignity, for it is essentially about some of the only property they have, and they have essentially saved their whole lives and collected it, some have really burned it, with hard work. All data show that the transfer of a protective allowance from the pension system to the social system was not an appropriate action. Therefore, the number of recipients is falling. In Slovenia we record an average high risk of poverty in people over 65 years of age and especially in those who live alone. We also know that older real estate owners, for whom they have worked their entire lives, live with low pensions, which is also mentioned in the Desus Group, then the Association of Retired Slovenians and many others who know this issue. There are situations where older ones do not apply for a protective allowance because they are afraid of books on real estate, but unfortunately because of their low incomes they cannot survive themselves, let alone have the means to pay for electricity, water, or the restoration of real estate, which – but in this case I do not speak for those large properties, but for small houses or one-bedroom apartments. They are also afraid that this would burden heirs, for many times whole families are those who live below the poverty threshold or are at the border, and returning a protective supplement would also be a blow to the heirs. With such a policy, we received in Slovenia a new vulnerable group, older single women with very low pensions, and especially those who are over 65 years of age. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are of the opinion – and we have been stressing this for a long time – that the social problem, even if you want poverty, cannot be solved only by changes in the field of social transfers at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but more emphasis must be given to systemic solutions in the field of economy, labour market and education in relation to the economy. In view of this, we have already proposed several measures in those areas which could lead to an increase in human economic stability, but all our proposals have unfortunately been rejected. We would expect the government coalition and the government to adopt our proposal at least in the first reading, i.e. a proposal to amend the law on the enforcement of social benefits. If not, according to Minister Marble, who speaks of Slovenia as a success story. According to Minister Kopač Mrak, who replied on Monday to Members' questions that Slovenia is finally recovering, that we have economic growth, that the number of employees has increased and that they are likely to do — that is, in the Minister or in the Government — the maximum to help the socially weak in debt write-off, which is why we are surprised by the government's negative opinion and today the negative opinion of the Ministry or the representative of the Ministry. The change we are proposing is helping the weakest in Slovenia, the socially weak, and similar proposals or conclusions can be read in the report I mentioned at the outset – Report of the Institute for Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. It is proposed that the Social Security Benefits Act delete the provisions setting out the registration of the prohibition on the disposal and burden of immovable property for recipients of cash social assistance and a social security allowance and the comprehensive obligation to recover social assistance received from the recipient of social assistance, namely the receipt of cash social assistance, the receipt of a social security allowance, the payment of social security services and the contribution to the payment of funds intended for the payment or payment of family assistant's rights. Let me add that in some of the debates or positions of the parliamentary groups, it has been said that we are interfering with or disrupting the social assistance system. This is not true in any way, for we do not interfere with the part that speaks, who is justified, and the extent to which he is entitled to social assistance or to what extent. Far from it! We are talking about what I am saying, it already warns a number of people that certain things can be helped by people, i.e. by a protective allowance and social assistance, a write-off of this property record. I must say that what the representative of the Government has said is that all those at risk are socially at risk of not having to return, namely, the Heritage Act in Article 29 states that the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality in whose budget assistance was financed to the prodigal in accordance with the social protection rules may be waived until the end of the legacy treatment. However, it was later adopted in 2014, the Social Security Benefits Act, which states in Article 39 that, notwithstanding Articles 128 and 129 of the Succession Act, it cannot do so. Thus, it is not true that it can be forgiven, for the Social Security Benefits Act prohibits this, but at the same time in November 2013 the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled an amendment precisely to that effect, if it is a matter of social danger that no financial social assistance and a protective allowance are returned, this amendment was slightly rejected from the position of the then ruling coalition. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unanimously support this amendment of the Social Security Benefit Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will read the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u88	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The security allowance has been no longer a pension allowance for several years, but this right has the nature of the social transfer. In Desus, we have always advocated that pension funds be cleared of all expenses that do not have the basis for contributions. Therefore, when new social legislation was adopted in 2010 in the Desus Group on changes in the new definition of the protection allowance and its exemption from pension transfers, we did not object. Unfortunately, the security allowance is only one and the only right that has burdened the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. The unfavourable demographic situation, the extension of the retirement period, the loss of contributions, the high unemployment rate and the high level of the grey economy, as well as the payment of non-contributory rights, calls for €1.5 billion in budget support this year for the financing of pension expenditure. In addition, I should remind you that the level of pensions has been real low for years and years, as pensions do not align with wages and the cost of living, which, as you know, is precisely what we have done because of Desus' persistence. Thus, under extreme economic conditions, the aid of the State, when a person is unable to support himself on various grounds for justified reasons, is a protection allowance or monetary social assistance or, in some cases, both rights. With regard to social transfers, both rights under the applicable legislation are subject to certain conditions or criteria provided for in the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits for enforcement. The criteria and restrictions for the acquisition of any right, whether social or any other, must be clearly set and proportionate. Of course, we agree with this in the Desus Group. We also believe that conditions must be put in such a way as to justify the purpose of justice. Regrettably, abuses despite clearly defined criteria can be seen at every step in everyday life, when individuals are more than obviously violating their rights, while at the same time formally meeting all the conditions on paper. On the other hand, the fact remains that social work centres still do not have insights or access to all the information needed to grant a right. As one of such shortcomings, we certainly do not have data on pensions from abroad or, as a result, that these pensions are not counted anywhere. Since 1976, i.e. almost 40 years, provision has been made for the inheritance of a person who has received aid under social law to be limited to the amount of the aid received. The provisions of family legislation on survival in both directions – i.e. in relation to parent-child-parents and vice versa – also apply. In this regard, we see the following in our Group of Members. Moral-ethical principles in our society regarding the duty of survival and the acquisition of social transfers are somehow lost in importance, no longer living. Somehow, in our space, it is slowly becoming a dominant opinion that the country must just give us what we think belongs to us. We regret that. The fact is, on the other hand, the awareness of intergenerational care and solidarity limits the increasingly difficult social situation of the relatives who should, and because they themselves are in social distress, they cannot take care of their parents, family members, the closest. Currently 14.5% of the population lives below the poverty threshold. This represents 290,000 of our citizens and citizens. However, taking seriously disadvantaged and at risk this number increases to over 400,000 people with a high risk of social exclusion. Among the poor or socially disadvantaged, more than half of pensioners are below the poverty threshold — that is, under 593 euros. The fact that pensioners represent a vulnerable group also shows that the risk of poverty for older persons is 19.6%. Among the most endangered are elderly women who live alone. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that the reduction in the number of recipients of the protective allowance is 78 % of the alarming data. Such mass denial of this right due to fear of loss of property, such as housing, kindergarten, where pensioners themselves produce seasonal vegetables that they could not afford in the store, really requires careful consideration of what they can or must do to protect this group of the weak in our society. But let me give you another information that we can't just ignore. In the Desus Group we have data for 2013, 16 thousand 106 people asked for a protective allowance, but only seven of them had assets, and the country has thus entered a notice on the limitation of inheritance to 2 thousand 337 properties, which means 14.5%. In the case of monetary social assistance, between 11 000 and 76 investors were sealed to 2 000 188 properties, i.e. 19.7%. The proposal from the SDS Group is that the Land Book does not contain a prohibition on the removal and burden on those owners receiving social assistance a protective allowance is entitled to exemption from social security payments or payment of the right to family assistant. There's no doubt that this is an extremely attractive move. Your Honor, why didn't you suggest this when you had scissors and linen in your hands? In other words, when it was adopted so-called ZUJF. At the time you were aware of the seriousness of the financial situation and the result of your work was so-called super-savory law, which also cut down rights in the social field. It is also true that Desus was at the time an integral part of this ruling coalition, and also as a result contributed votes to the ZUJF, but the effects brought by ZUJF are not now being destroyed by us, but, unlike you, we remain on the real ground. In the DeSUS Group, we had quite a few meetings to discuss this proposal. The debate went in a way that, in the Republic of Slovenia, the system of providing social assistance, control of this and the system of return have improved significantly according to the system we had before. We all know that among the recipients, many who came for help were also wrapped in gold and in the most prestigious brands of cars. Tuists also received reductions in payment for kindergartens and their children received scholarships and had free lunches. And so on. I'm asking you, this system is fair. Of course not! I'm sure a system like this can't hold. Not at all when it's saving at every turn. But it is true, at least according to our assessment, that a protective allowance is not entirely equivalent to social assistance. It is the receipt of a specific group of people, for a population over 63 and 65 years of age, to be permanently unemployed, permanently unable to work. These people have no opportunity to earn money and have no opportunity to provide for themselves, not only if they have to support their spouses, their children, their grandchildren. In order to receive this transfer, sealing shall also be recorded on the property. I hope that we have explained to you why, in our view, a protective allowance can only be an exception to the entire social assistance system. The government's opinion on this proposal is negative. The amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act in 2013 addressed many of the shortcomings of the new system social regulation adopted in 2010. However, there are still anomalies and also information from the field that, of course, cannot be ignored. They will need to be analysed and appropriate legislative changes will have to be followed as soon as possible. Finally, the Government itself and all of us, respected coalition partners, are committed, in accordance with the coalition agreement, to burden the beneficiaries of the security allowance, which owns the property at a lower value, with the seal on their property. We will not support this bill because of all that has been said in the Desus Group. However, we will strive or insist that a protective supplement be arranged as soon as possible so that the most vulnerable remain protected from interference with their property, which is important or crucial for their survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbič, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u90	Mr President! This is exactly what I have already announced in the position of the Group of Members today and what I expected. With the exception of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the United Left, all the other parliamentary groups are looking for a thousand and one excuse for doing nothing in an area that is extremely problematic. It is amazing how the social note of these parliamentary groups flashes at a moment! I really don't get it. Full mouth of chatter – I'm sorry, but now I'm getting angry – and I don't know what I'm hearing in Parliament, in media stations, in print media records and so on, how and what needs to be done to make this country as social as possible, so that more social states and so on and so on. And at the end of the day, when we bring a proper bill to the table, and all of a sudden all of this goes away, it all goes away, I don't know where. Today, there have also been so many deceptions and attempts to avoid responsibility when it comes to such important issues and such important laws. I think that this is extremely unfair, unfair and irresponsible of those who have practically cooked this situation and this situation that we are in today. Look how many of us are sitting in Parliament today! The parliamentary group of Social Democrats, who is most responsible for this tasteless law, which was introduced into the parliamentary procedure and was also adopted during the reign of Borut Pahor – there is no Member in Parliament! Not a single Member! Don't be ashamed of them! And they're full of the mouths of the social state. When we discuss and talk about such important issues, such an important law that really touches the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups in this country. These are the people who need a social assistance allowance, and there are a lot of pensioners and pensioners who have between 180 and 300, 400 and 500 euros of pension. I am also surprised today about Desus' relationship, but at least I expected the Social Democrats to support this law. In this group of people, the vast majority of people who are represented here in the National Assembly are not doing so. They don't do that, and they have a thousand excuses why they wouldn't support this marriage. Now, I will quote the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and I must say this, it would be good for the Minister to be here too, but I have heard that they probably have a government, so maybe that's an objective excuse not to be here. She was, when she was State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, 25. 5. 2010, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where we discussed this law, first said what we have already heard today, but I must repeat it. She said: "The purpose of this law is to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion and to promote work activity or maintain motivation for work. This law is a key move that we want to make, by highlighting passive social policy on the path of active or active social policy." That's part of her quote. And then I continue to quote her. So the next paragraph, I quote again, "If we're going to have a little bit of a discussion about the protective supplement. Even today, by law, the protective allowance depends on the applicant’s income and property position. It is true that it is not from the family, but because we have discussed in the previous law that we want to establish clear foundations both for verifying the income and property situation for all rights paid from public funds, it is also right to put the issue of the protection allowance at the same level. If we keep looking at the safety supplement. The amount of the protective allowance depends on the supplementary pension age, which shows from our data that the poorest who receive the lowest pension actually obtain the lowest security allowance, which of course contributes to the fact that Slovenia, if we look at the level of the risk of poverty of the elderly, is the most successful, despite being among the most successful in comparison with European countries in terms of reducing the risk of poverty, among the most successful in the face of the crisis. We therefore believe that with the solutions to the transfer of the state pension, that is, the abolition of the state pension and the transfer of the protective allowance into the social assistance system, we are establishing a more transparent and, above all, a more socially equitable system. I still owe you a number on what's going to happen after our calculations with the recipients of the protective supplement. According to today's system, around 45 000 beneficiaries of the security allowance, following the simulations that have been made, about one third of the beneficiaries will no longer be eligible for their income and property position, one third will remain unchanged, and one third will be new beneficiaries who have not been eligible for the protection allowance to date, the older ones who are most vulnerable from the point of view of their income position and therefore need special care of the country." So that's what the current Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled People said. In a written reply to the question sent to the Minister responsible for Social Affairs of 5 June 2015, 2. 2015, the number 0010/1/20-2015/2 can be traced to the number of recipients of monetary social assistance, namely that in 2012 – 418 000 211, in 2013 – 525 thousand 200 and in 2014 – 572 thousand 346. Data for nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. In the case of monetary social assistance, we see that the amendment of legislation on the prohibition of the availability and prohibition of the burden on the property of the recipient of financial social assistance has in no way helped to reduce the number of recipients of financial social assistance. On the other hand, the data for the protective additive are completely different. Following the entry into force of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits at the beginning of 2012, the number of recipients of the protection allowance decreased by 78 %. Why am I quoting this now? Because before that, I was quoting what Mrs. Digger said. This is absolutely contrary to what she claimed here at the time of the adoption of this law and what the real truth is now. The protection allowance is given to those who are permanently unemployed and permanently unable to work or who are over 63 years of age, women, or 65 years of age, men, thus representing a particularly socially sensitive group of the population. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection points to a significant trend in the decline in the number of recipients of a protective allowance below 66 years of age. Given that the financial needs of these beneficiaries have not changed and that the social situation of the weakest in the Republic of Slovenia has not improved, the only reason for such a decline may be in the amended legal regime, which provided that a security allowance or monetary social assistance can be obtained only if the beneficiary agrees with the prohibition on the possession of its property or the prohibition on the burden of real estate, irrespective of whether that property is valuable or the only real estate of the beneficiary, so that it lives. Thus, the reduced number of recipients of the protective allowance is due to the fact that many older ones do not want to be banned from their property, since they also consider it an intervention in their personal dignity because it is the only property they have and for which they have saved their entire lives. Therefore, we note that Svetlik's law, and the current minister, was also a secretary of state and supported this law, did not bear fruit. On the contrary! We have achieved what should not be achieved by the most vulnerable groups in this society. And these are the ones with the lowest pensions, those who are extremely difficult to spend a month and so on. I think that if we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend this law on the basis of data that indicates that this law is weak in that part and is practically unacceptable, we think that at least those parliamentary groups that are in the majority of the parliamentary representatives of these vulnerable groups should support this law. And no! Look at the fragment! They decided because this law was imposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to oppose this law. And today much has been said about the constitutional decision. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in Decision No I I/33/97 has already repealed Article 128 of the Law on Succession, which was subsequently constitutionally amended, but has also adopted a position: "After the decision of paragraph 1 50. the articles of the Constitution have the right of citizens, under the conditions laid down by law, to social security. On the basis of the right to social security, the social State, Article 2 of the Constitution, is obliged to provide adequate assistance to an individual at risk and must not endanger that individual's rights by unduly pooring funds to provide such assistance. The protection of the right to social security of an individual, in a particular case, requires the State to receive the aid recovered from persons who, at the time of receiving the aid, had property but were in need of it themselves and did not in itself bring income." Therefore, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that the recovery of social assistance from inheritance was constitutionally permissible, but not that the possible non-refundation of social assistance would be constitutionally unacceptable. So, speaking to this decision of the Constitutional Court, I think it is incorrect. We, the proponents of the law, follow this provision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by 30. 11. 2000 but we believe that this solution in existing social legislation – the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits – is disproportionate to the right to social security. Today's social legislation lays down precise and clear criteria allowing for the verification of the property situation of a person seeking one of the forms of social assistance, or for a State with all available records of property ownership, labour or property income, and thus further checking the property status of each applicant for one of the forms of social assistance at any given time. So it follows from this that the Constitutional Court prohibits nothing. There are such and different options and today try to prevent us here, that the Constitutional Court has found that one thing is not possible, I think I have made it clear enough that this is not true; that this is misleading individual Slovenian groups. I mean, respectable that this law, which we have proposed in the SDS, is a law that should be supported precisely in order to ensure that the mistakes that have occurred in the past – and we have already talked about this today – and the law that was adopted at the time, this Svetlik Law, is absolutely proven to be a mistake in this work. Since people have suddenly given up 78% of the protection allowance, this is, as you announced in the Desus Group, an alarming information. So you also find that this marriage is not good in this part. He is not good and does not follow what the proposed law was probably thinking at the time; that the opposite effects were achieved to what he wanted to achieve by this law. Today, there have been some concrete arguments why this law and these solutions are not good for people to refuse to accept a protective supplement. It is true that this law, which is also my personal assessment, was deliberately adopted at that time by attacking rural areas, the periphery and precisely the environment, the rural environment where people have the greatest problems and live in a large majority with very low incomes, very low pensions, with these pensions there between 300 and 400 even less resources, and it is extremely important for them to get this income and it is a security allowance. Of course, people gave it up because in that environment – I come alone from the Slovenian Mountains, and if you look at that environment, you will find that people there could not, when in a period of time in the previous system they had no opportunity to get an apartment because there was no housing in that environment, and there are people, so that they could survive, build small houses or larger, whatever, because it was the only chance that they could survive in that area. Those who live in centres, in Ljubljana, you don't know that, you don't know that. Unfortunately, you don't know, and these people were building these houses and all these things so that they could survive in that area, and they could also process that area. It is logical, many of them are older, of course, to know when they can become recipients of a protective supplement, that of course they are concerned that someone will be now, for example, living alone in the house. [[…]] There's a lot of people like that, either their husbands died or their wives can't sell, they can't go anywhere. We have practically taken away the protective allowance from them by this law because, of course, those of their properties that they have cultivated throughout their lives will certainly not be able to impose so that the recipients of the protective allowance. Does that mean what we did? Even more people have been plunged into poverty, much more so! Much more so because they gave it up. Then you know how these people live with 200 or 250 euros a month. I know that because people told me. I know people whose names I'm not going to name now, but they have 230 euros in pension. However, she gave up the protective supplement, but there is only one small house that, according to these GURS estimates, or whatever they are, is virtually worthless today. But for this she spent her entire life saving and even invested in this facility, that today she also has this. You can't convince a man like that to allow himself to put the matter up for nothing. Ma'am said no more, I'd rather die alive! Logically, clearly, but I don't think that's funny. [[…]] [[…]] I apologize for this expression, but I think it is very problematic that we do not realize this when we have proposed this law, at least we, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, are aware of this and we are aware that there is an urgent need to make certain changes in this area. In the proposal's position today, all of you sitting here in Parliament have been able to hear that this is a proposal prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we have also made it very clear that we are ready for a compromise solution, such a solution that will solve this issue so that the Government will be pleased on the one hand, and on the other hand those who now refuse to receive this safeguard supplement. I think we should do this for these people, because data also shows that poverty is increasing. Poverty is increasing, whatever data we look at, we find that there are constantly more people on these minimum wages and so on and so on. If we don't realize it, then there's something really wrong with us. That is why, of course, I expect at least, I will say, the sobering up of parliamentary groups that cannot always sit on the government's views to decide and we support this law in this consideration, and then we will add this law to this point in order to be acceptable to all. With an easy marriage to refuse, I think that when it comes to such an important and fundamental question in this country, when we talk about social justice, more social states would be extremely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and have heard the debate of the proposer. We are now going to the general debate of MEPs and Members. Mrs. Marinka Levičar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to all, colleagues and colleagues! We have heard a great deal from the proponents of this law, how poverty is growing in Slovenia, how poverty must be halted or its effects mitigated, what is going on in this area – I certainly agree with it, and in this regard I also support the proponents of this law with their desire to do something about the protection allowance and other rights of the social protection law. However, I would like to start with a pension law, although you have discussed this much or this Light Reform, which has excluded protective allowances and state pensions from the pension system. Why did he cut them out? Because you are Members at the time and also the general public wanted all rights not based on paid contributions to pension and disability insurance to be excluded from the pension system, i.e. all social rights. It is precisely because of these social rights that have been in the pension system that the percentage of GDP allocated by the State of Slovenia to pension and disability insurance has also increased significantly, and many have also shown this to us in Europe. I think that at the time the proportion of this GDP was over 14%, and all the parties were united in order to exempt social rights from the pension system. This also led to the exclusion of the protective allowance, which was much more favourable in the pension system at the time, I would say that less social restrictions were imposed on those who were entitled to it. When it came to the fact that this protective allowance was transferred to social security rights, all the criteria, as applicable to other social security rights, were applied, and so the protection allowance was also governed by the rule that the beneficiaries of this protective allowance should be included on their property, immovable property, if they have it. Many pensioners were intimidated by the fact that they had their pensions or that they would settle in with the seal of the state. You know this, you have pointed out this several times, this is also the fact that they gave up a protective allowance and that they didn't even get it through decisions issued by social work centres for other reasons that they didn't fulfil. However, I would also like to point out in this protective supplement that you did not specifically point out in the debate that under this Act on Social Protection Rights, older citizens over 63 years of age — women — or men 65 years of age are entitled to a protective allowance. That's what you said. Only before this was in the pension system were all pensioners entitled to the allowance, regardless of age. And just because of age, because of this age condition, some pensioners have already lost the right to a protective allowance because they did not meet this condition. You know that a large number of pensioners who are under 63 years of age – and who are also in fact – and that, above all, younger pensioners, there are 57, 58 years of age, who are retired at a low working age, and that this is why they also had a smaller pension and were not automatically entitled to a protective allowance in the new system. You also mentioned that this Svetlik reform abolished the state pension. It is also true that the state pension was abolished, but we were not paying attention to the fact that the state pension could have been received by any person over 65 years of age, disregarding the property of her family, disregarding For example, the most cases were of course women who were over 65 years of age but did not have a pension, and it was not taken into account that the husband could have the highest pension, theoretically, or very high pension. [[…]] These women were automatically granted this state pension. When the state pension was abolished, of course, it was also known in the property condition of these families and also those who, for example, did not have partners, but lost that right only because it was gone. There are many reasons why poverty has increased, but of course all are based on this amended legislation and conditions. Therefore, I think that this social protection legislation should be amended more thoroughly to erase – what you are proposing in the SDS – the write-offs of those who book on the property of the pensioners or on the property of the pensioners, in order to take account of the larger assets they have. Some may also have more houses or luxury homes, but they have low pensions and then low incomes because their incomes are during working hours, such as some craftsmen, when they can choose their pension base, have chosen a very low pension base. The result is a very low pension, but they invested their assets in houses or other immovable property. Today, we would be forgiven by this logic — that they do not sit down or register on their property. I think that this legislation needs to be reconsidered, set up in all respects and then, on this basis, prepare such legal measures as soon as possible to alleviate poverty and to ensure more equitable social protection rights. In principle, I also disagree with the fact that social rights are in the worst distress of some country's credit, which then must be repaid by the family after the death of the recipient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u94	Mr Vice President, thank you very much. I would just say to the ladies that it would be good to know when she's talking about these things, that if you have so much and so much property, you can't achieve censorship and you can't even be a recipient of a protective supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Chimenka ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u96	Your Honor, hello! I hear many times from left governments that Slovenia must be a social state. I object because I want Slovenia to be a successful country and there to be as little social assistance as possible because people would be employed because they would have suitable pensions because young people would have suitable scholarships because larger families would have adequate family benefits, and this could be a successful country. For a successful country, however, it is most important that we have jobs and that the country encourages people to work, to be duly taxed or to adopt such legislation as encourages and enables people to work. We are not aware of this too often, and not enough measures are taken by the State to lead us to a more successful country, not to a social state. Despite the fact that the social state is so much focused on how much we have increased social expenditure, social assistance – this would not make me boast. If we have increased social assistance, this means that the situation in the country has deteriorated. However, we must strive to have less social assistance and more work. And where did Slovenia go? Unfortunately, we have mismanaged our assets, we have mismanaged them, so our companies have not developed, so now we have to sell them at, unfortunately, too low prices, and we have not invested in development. Yet, some still advocate state silver, which has long since become brown steel that burdens us but does not lift us up. We could have better pensions and scholarships, better salaries, of course, if we didn't invest more than 5 billion in bank rehabilitation. Why am I saying this now? Because it always pisses me off when we talk about how social we are, but at the same time we don't find the culprits and those responsible for all these bank holes, and we don't realize the law that makes it possible to confiscate the assets of unexplained origin. And we're practically doing nothing about it. Why do I support this law? First, let me say that I advocate that each person first can take care of himself and his family and that the children are also responsible for their parents when they get older. I am against the fact that someone inherits a lot of property, but he has not taken care of his parents and that is why the state had to provide social assistance. I object to that. But when I ask myself why people can't take care of themselves, even though they've been working full-time, they have such low pensions that they need extras. Then I ask myself about the responsibility of the state for these people. And when children have to take care of their elderly parents, they do not have a job themselves, and they are threatened that if they receive these social benefits, they will eventually lose their apartment or house and that these children will lose their jobs, and then I ask myself about the responsibility of the state. Because, unfortunately, with the collapse or the crisis of values that Slovenia has entered, we have also accumulated these many unnecessary problems when Slovenia could be a successful country. And it's certainly humiliating for people to apply for a protective supplement after they spent their whole lives working for each other, and for the most part we know that they sometimes built their own houses themselves, in the afternoons, doing extra work, etc. I also wonder why we would restrict people to work and punish them by making extra money, but we wanted to take away their pensions. That's not right. I think we need to work on if someone's earned a pension, they deserve it. And if he's still working, let him work and make extra money to make it easier to live. That is why I am in favour of such legislation that will encourage people to work that will make it possible for them to earn decent wages, pensions and survival. As the proponent said, this law can be the basis for us to shake our social policy by means of this law. That's why I'm gonna back him up. I believe that further reflection is needed, but this law, if adopted at first reading, can also be an important incentive for the government to move faster towards a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor to prepare Mrs Erika Deklava.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello again! The Social Security Benefits Act was passed during the Pahor government. It entered into force in early 2012 and introduced a very cruel institution for many citizens and citizens, namely the entry into force of the disposal and the burden of real estate for recipients of monetary social assistance and a security allowance. This is a measure that has plunged many citizens into even greater poverty. He did so by reducing the number of recipients of the protective allowance to 78 %. Now in numbers, this means that in December 2011, there were 46,752 in December 2012 — 10,217 recipients. The protection allowance is intended for those who are either permanently unemployed or permanently unable to work, regardless of age, and for women over 36 years of age or men over 65 years of age. So only for those who belong to the so-called group of the most socially sensitive. However, the reduction of the recipients of the protective supplement was mainly due to the fact that the elderly began to mass cancel this supplement. Why? It's precisely because of the admission of the state or the municipality to their property. It should be pointed out that this is not a property of great value, because otherwise it could not be recipients or social assistance or a protective allowance. It's real estate that they made themselves with hard work. These are properties that they may have inherited from their parents, properties for which they have actually saved their entire lives and made them mostly themselves with their own hands. Of course, the admission of the State or the congregation to their property seemed a cruel act. In fact, interference with their personal dignity and did not want their children to pay back their debt. Often, their children are barely able to walk with their families from month to month, and this would also be a huge financial burden for them. In particular, it is cruel that this can be circumvented, the prohibition of the flag of property and the return of social assistance from the legacy, for example by dividing the property before the application for social assistance or a security allowance, by pre-entry of a lien right. In agreement with the procurator, heirs can make arrangements for the acquisition of this property in advance, and in the end, this elderly person is, in effect, without the property, before asking for money or a security allowance. Thus, one who is far more resourceful may make sure that his heirs do not return money and that there is no record of it on his property. Because he can still live in that property. Those who don't know how to find holes in the law do it again. Where is this social justice now? But somehow I do not believe that it is the goal of the State or the congregation to own more and more properties. I already know a few cases when either an elderly person is in a nursing home, the congregation has a property stamp, and this property is abandoned, no one cares about it, no one cares about that agricultural land around this property. Even worse, when the congregation becomes the owner of such a property, it cannot be sold because it is usually in some areas that are not as interesting for the buyers. These are more remote development areas from some major centres, which are not interesting for young people. Do we want more growth? It is also about using the word help — money, social assistance. The help itself through the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language means what can be done to anyone to come out of an unpleasant position. In this case, we cannot say that this is something that has been given, but it is more of an interest-free loan, but it is not an aid. That more and more citizens and citizens are at the threshold of poverty, this data also shows an increase in the number of social assistance given. If there were 437 thousand more in 2012, there were already 609,000 in 2014. Even more than once today, the report of the Institute for Social Protection, which we discussed on the Labour Committee, shows that the rate of poverty in Slovenia has increased significantly since 2009, moving to 14.5% in 2014, that they are increasingly at risk over 65 years of age and that there is also a special group of very vulnerable people, these are older women, who are mostly single during this critical period. In view of all of this, I agree with the proposal to delete the provisions setting out the registration of a prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for recipients of social assistance and a protective allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs Erika Dekleva has the floor to prepare Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on social security benefits by the SDS is, in my opinion, just another additional proposal with the other hyperproduction of bill proposals, which are, in fact, even popular. By now all governments have had the opportunity to change the succession regime if they felt that the Heritage Act, adopted in 1976, was in any way controversial, of course at the time they led the government, so the proposer was about five years old. In fact, I very much agree with the debate of colleague Ludmila Novak today. I am also of the opinion that this may not be the best solution for people's social distress, but especially not the most just. It is best and most just, as the colleague said, that as many people as possible have jobs, that they also have decent salaries, pensions, and that people living below the poverty line are as few as possible. Of course, I also agree that children should help their parents during life if they are not able to live a decent life with their work. We probably all agree here, but the question is whether this bill, which today is righteous, makes sense. And here, of course, we have every view of ourselves. The proponent thinks yes, we see things a little differently. It is important that the state takes care of everything, that is, all those people who cannot take care of themselves because of such or other circumstances. And it's good for people like that to help. The prodigal of some property may be at risk of being socially endangered, but it is not necessarily a socially endangered heir. I don't understand, because we don't take and we help all those who need help. Of course, they're not heirs. However, in the event that the heirs are also socially at risk, there is, of course, Article 129 of the Succession Act, which provides that the State or the municipality may waive the right to repay that aid. This article was also considered by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and decided that it was legitimate for the grantor to be paid from the property of the procurator. Otherwise, the right to social security could be jeopardised for all citizens and this right could be jeopardised by the poverty of funds to provide this assistance. In addition to the above, it should be mentioned that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing changes, in accordance with the coalition agreement, of course, which will relieve all recipients of a security supplement that owns a smaller property or property of less value. With all the changes announced, however, it must always be realized that if we interfere with the social justice system, something can happen quickly at the slightest and inconsiderate pace that, when so called a benefit given to a group of people, the existing system can become discriminatory to another group of individuals. Luke the moon, of course, laid many Cheyennes in his speech. The money would have been available if it hadn't been for TEC, if it hadn't been for a lot of things, but unfortunately it was all that, and it's not the fault of our government that's been running this country for a few months. We're just doing what we got right now, as best we can. I will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you. The representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u102	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! When I listen to the allegations, it is very difficult in some way to say convincingly and to find the arguments that we are saying that certainly what the proposer says, which the opposition supports, there is nothing in that it is not to understand the hardship of people who cannot, even though no one is interfering with their property and will be able to stay in this house for the rest of their lives, without any intervention, to argue that then their children will have to return it. The properties are very close to us and we have a specific relationship with Slovenians and Slovenes. As a company with more than 86% of ownership dwellings in Slovenia, this is a unique one in Europe. And Slovenia has a specific relationship to real estate. When the law was adopted, I think that in 2012 it entered into force, so I think it was adopted in 2010, 2011, and above all, the argument was in total contradiction, which Mr Pojbič said will be withdrawn and that this is an attack on the rural area. You need to know that in rural areas, i.e. in rural areas, they were largely protected by a narrower scope of rights and therefore, under pension legislation, they did not have farmers who were insured for a narrower scope of rights, nor did they have the right to a protection allowance. So one of the arguments there when we mentioned what was going to happen was that they would get a new right, meant for those who did not have the right to a protective supplement until then, and these were those who were protected for a narrower scope of rights. The fact is, if we look at the story of the Succession Act, which has been in force since 1976. The Constitutional Court stated, in particular, that Slovenia is a social state and that the state, through its executive branch of power, has the duty to preserve this social state and has therefore assessed this intervention as property of the people primarily in terms of whether the State has the right to entitle itself to a social state. It decided that this was a proportionate measure. Why? In order to ensure that the social state, any later government, can guarantee this right to a social state for all, including those who come later, i.e. for later generations. That's why the Constitutional Court ruled it as it is. There is another fact that we often or almost never hear, and that is that monetary social assistance and the social security supplement are the last of the social transfers that all European countries are giving to people in distress. In fact, it is the so-called last form of aid. And before this aid by theory, these are systems of social assistance, which are completely different from social security systems, are designed for those who have no other means of survival and have no one to help them survive. In most European countries, if you own property, you have no right to social assistance. With us, it's called financial social assistance. This is not the case in Slovenia, it has never been the case. However, the provision has always been applied that the local community, because the local community provides funds for people who do not have money to go to a pensioner's home, I will simplify it a little bit, and for family assistants, in fact, since 1976 the municipalities have provided and registered their property for real estate and have also applied to the inheritance process itself. The fact is that the system was not so informed at the time and was based on this action of the municipalities, if I say, on what the relatives were at the time of their parents' death, so if the heirs indicated that their parents were recipients of these forms of assistance, then these procedures were initiated, otherwise not. Of course, we live in a different age, and this is now much more systematic because there are interconnected information bases between us. In fact, since 2011, and it has been established since 2012 that the State which grants and grants monetary social assistance and a security allowance also introduces the same mechanism as in the case of the exemption of payment for institutional protection and in the case of a family assistant. This law that you have before you today sends all of this in the same connection. It must therefore be said that in other countries you do not have the right to do so. Let me tell you one more interesting thing. A while ago, I was at a meeting with the Austrian minister and we were talking about the long-term care system they have in Austria. We usually see that in Austria everything is well arranged. And there was also a question about the record, and the minister explained to me that for the first six months, when someone is in a retirement home, the state pays for him or a lower level, not federal, and immediately after six months, until the end of his stay at a pensioner's home or if he is helping with basic tasks at home, then he takes the whole value back in the process of inheriting the land. So also in Austria, which is always so sung, they have such a system and also in most other European countries. This is hard to understand because in Slovenia it is that people have worked, invested their entire lives, and the real estate was really what I created, the feeling that I created something. We were at the Social Work Centre in Slovenj Gradec a while ago, and I spoke to a gentleman who does not want to receive a protective allowance because he is afraid for his property. In fact, both the social work centre and the pensioners' society are trying to work with him, and so have I. He doesn't have anyone to leave him, he doesn't have kids to leave them this property, and he still doesn't want to hand it over. As a society, you should all step in and say, look, you have the right to a protective allowance, but yet the property in which you are, without limit, you will be able to stay in it, no one and never will take it away from you for the time of your life, you have no one to worry about, and even such people give up. It was precisely because of what was happening and how properties in Slovenia were perceived that the first changes to social legislation adopted in 2013 and entered into force with effect from 1 January 2014 and September 2014 were also aimed at loosening these conditions of return. Extraordinary social assistance is no longer a matter of return, because we have said that if someone needs an extraordinary form of assistance, that he is in current distress, we will exclude it from this logic of inheritance and, of course, that the state will somehow pay off in the end. There is also no refund for those receiving short-term financial social assistance for up to 12 months. And even if you have this right for a long time, the total amount is looked at and one third is deducted from it and then a smaller portion is paid. So first 12 months away, 12 tops, then a third. Then, by amending social legislation, we have actually increased the share of recipients of monetary social assistance. Here we can interpret this as a deepening of the crisis, and on the other hand we have made quite a few provisions laying down who can even apply for financial social assistance, and this is also the result. And that was the goal back then. If you look at why the government is proposing amendments to the legislation, it was precisely to loosen these entry conditions in order to allow more people in distress to have access to financial social assistance. We have approximately 8 thousand recipients in this period. Even in the case of the protective supplement, we have thus softened the conditions for the savings they have and also the reimbursements. In view of the issue of protective supplements that have actually fallen, but we know that the people who would be eligible do not ask, we have also agreed in the coalition agreement that we will prepare changes in the direction that property is less than what we will exempt from this austerity regime. This is mainly a view of changes to the security allowances and, above all, a smaller value in the direction of real estate. Again, in Slovenia you have the right to a protective allowance no matter how valuable you live in. If you have two properties, then no. If I'm at the villa and I'm going to say absurdly that I can express myself more plasticly, I live in a house, not a villa, 500 square's worth of real estate, I'll be entitled to cash social assistance if I don't have any other savings. There's no such thing abroad. Since we didn't want to look at this even more and maybe go any more restrictively, we said you could receive, but then there's a sign that you can't sell this property. And if at the end of your life no one forces you out of your property, you can stay in that property, no state will touch you. However, if you don't need any more help, then of course we can't see that the State would not, even in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, somehow ensure the reimbursement of the part of the funds it has paid. You need to know that most recipients of monetary social assistance, most recipients of a protective allowance, have nothing. And when we look at young people when they don't have anything, and when we talk about society not having enough resources for everyone, it would be easier to say that we stop all of this, it won't be those labels anymore, but we are obliged to provide the means that the younger and other generations will have the opportunity to make social transfers that we allow. Of course, there are important jobs and all that has been exposed. It is our duty, as a country, to ensure that all who are coming can have equal access to social transfers. However, it is good news for those of us most vulnerable to agree in the government to raise the minimum income next year, which is the basis for calculating monetary social assistance and a security allowance of €269, as currently stands at €288. It is important that children's allowances, that is, everything that has been found by the study and we have already resolved that we have raised the income of single parents' families, we have already made that change in legislation in 2013, but the second year will no longer be limited to the fifth and sixth grades of the children's allowance, which is currently reduced by 10% and also in the seventh grade will be the release and also the state scholarship – the fifth class will be returned. When we talk about the poverty risk rate of 14.5%, it must be said that it is income. In this stage 2014, revenues from 2012, where both the ZUJF and the social legislation adopted had the greatest impact on what had happened. But I warn you, when the calculation for new social legislation was made, it was not known that interventions into child support and other family benefits, which then pushed families down. I do not want to point to anyone, the analysis has shown that the results for families have been absolutely unacceptable, so already the government of Alenka Bratušek, we as the ministry have proposed the changes that have been adopted. On the basis of these changes, the proportion of recipients of monetary social assistance is increasing. And this one's bigger for families. The following year, improvements will be made in this area. As far as the security supplement and the system are concerned, it is in our coalition contract and there will also be changes in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Good thing the minister came, I'm glad she's said a few things now, she's warned about a few things, but I think there's something else to add. Most of those who receive and give up a protective supplement are the most vulnerable group. We're not talking about people who have villas, live in villas, and I don't know what, some of them don't know what horrible buildings, etc. Dear Madam Secretary! Please come to Koroška, Štajersko, Pomurje, Prekmurje, Slovenian Mountains, Prlecija, in this environment, and you will see what villas these people who have 250 euros in pensions live in, and have resigned from the protective allowance. And I listened very carefully to you when you warned me that you yourself had detected one such case, that someone had no successor, and yet they gave up the protective supplement. Of course, people are tied to it. I was also talking about it when you weren't here. There were no social housing in that environment years ago. There were no apartments. People couldn't get an apartment because they weren't there. People built these houses to survive in that environment, to have a roof over their heads and to remain there and that that part of Slovenia is still inhabited and to process that land, that Slovenia is fully covered. These people have a different attachment to their property than to someone who is in an apartment that is one or another. And Madam Minister, I am very pleased when you pointed out these things and said, even in the opinion of the Government, I read this last paragraph, where you stated: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has thus resolved the most urgent shortcomings in 2013. Other shortcomings requiring substantial changes, analyses, including the issue of the prohibition of disposal and burden, will begin in the future by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, in accordance with the coalition agreement, by the recipients of a security supplement that owns property at a lower value, to relieve the prohibition of the disposal of property." So, Madam Minister, it is very clear that we have decided to introduce this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's what this is all about. It is said that you, too, find that this law, which you have defended when you were a secretary of state, is unacceptable in certain cases, unfair and even less socially fair. And you can see for yourself that this law requires certain changes. Madam Minister, what is easier for you, the coalition and all Members and Members of Parliament sitting in this House, and the government sitting in that government palace, than the law that we have prepared and tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, correct it, amend it in that part, we find a compromise, and we deal with the issue accordingly, as we all think, that the best thing is for those people who are burdened with it and, on the other hand, also acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know why it's necessary right now, and here you've written down, to re-do some analysis, like we usually do, that kind of analysis, that kind of analysis, and that kind of analysis, and he still has to earn something, and there he has to earn something and so on and so forth. Instead of joining us if we have a document on the table, we fix it, we prepare it to the point where it is acceptable for all of us. And I once again call on all the Members. I hope you won't fall for the government's trick again if they systematically solve this problem, I don't know when to solve it, and so on. People are expecting a solution to this problem now, today, here, right now. The Slovenian Democratic Party expected the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do so. That you'd do it. You solved this problem if you're aware of it, because in the government's position, you say it, you realize that you're going to do it. Well, you didn't. However, since we have introduced this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, well, now everything has to be done, just so that this law does not go into further procedure and is not adopted because it has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's too big! And I don't understand the Members and Members, I don't understand that. I would also understand some government representatives because they are burdened with SDS. But I don't understand the new faces in the National Assembly. But Cerari’s parliamentary group kept saying how they would bring the new wind into the National Assembly. Nothing's changed! Sit tight with your heads down, and here you read a quote or something written, and maybe here and there some of the Members say a few sentences, and that's it. And this is the Group of the Party of the Modern Center, and today – how many of you have discussed such important topics? I feel like it's not touching you. It's a modern center party. Yes, please, let's get real for once, and do something for this poor nation of ours! Not just walk around crying! I'm serious. New faces. And I can't listen to these new faces anymore. And I see half the Members and Members here coming to the National Assembly for a month of five hours. That's all they've done so far. They've been sitting in the National Assembly for six or seven months. It's not an insult because it's true. If you want, I'll bring the papers to your desk and you'll see.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u105	Mr. Pojibich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u106	Yes, you're right, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry. I just got a little carried away. I didn't mean to hurt anyone. However, when we are talking about a group of Members that is supposed to be a new wind in the National Assembly, I expect it to bring something more concrete, as well as support some thing that is in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But not that it's just written on paper, declared, "we're new faces", but in the end nothing changes. That's sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u107	Minister Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u108	Now I promise we won't have a duel with Mr. Pojbich anymore. Maybe I just remember we just supported one of the SDS laws in the first reading. Then, in the end, all the young and all the others turned against that law, and then we realized that it was better to just back off. So you wouldn't talk about it, "Sure." When we try, there is no feeling that because your proposal is a law, just because it is your proposal, the government opposes it. That's not true. It's just an argument to get him off the table. I'm trying, I'm always reading things you write, and if possible, we'd also like to take the opposition into account. It is not a matter of generally rejecting the opposition's proposals. So we're not rejecting this proposal because you wrote it and proposed it in the SDS, but we're rejecting it because if we look at it formally, even according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the financial consequences, and if we consider it, let's say people are important and that's the point, that's fine. And the second is that you're essentially talking about people who have less property. Always point that out very clearly. And here you see what you've read, that's exactly what the coalition wants to do. In fact, with your proposal, you say that no matter what value of real estate I live in, you do not separate anything. We need all of us, not just those who have a security supplement. Since we are having a discussion all the time, the actual proposaler points out that it has fallen mainly for recipients of a protective supplement, i.e. for the elderly, so that you cannot justify it because the number is growing. And so if we wanted to, if we wanted to do that, we would have proposed such a law. But you've actually put the whole system on your head since 1976. And it is a question of what the mayors will say when it comes to the issue of the funds of the municipalities when we are talking about the first part, which you are also referring to, if the state can still define itself. In fact, for the first time, you're deceiving that we never support your laws, secondly, you're talking about some analysis being prepared. No, we've told you what we've come up with as a coalition and what we're going to do. What you most point out is the issue of protection supplements and markings for those who have only lower property values, the government and thus the coalition will resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u109	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u110	Madam Minister, I hope you have not come to Parliament to argue with me. What you've said so far is not true. Not one and not the other. Why? This is definitely a proposal for a law that we have tabled and is at first reading. I am at the very beginning of the press conference, and I have made it very clear here today that this is a proposal for a law for which I want to upgrade it with the Government and the coalition and upgrade it so that it will be acceptable to all. So, Madam Minister, you didn't listen to what I was saying. And I ask you not to deceive the Slovenian public. That's one thing. Second thing I told you about the analysis. See what you wrote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has thus addressed the most urgent shortcomings in 2013. Other shortcomings that require thorough changes and analyses......" Yes, my dear – did you write this position of government or did you not? Yeah, read what it says. Don't make a fool of me, because I'm not an idiot, because I can read. I have a document here that you read, and don't say it's not true. Please don't do this. I did not come to Parliament to argue, please help, you, as far as possible, the coalition on its side, as far as possible, and the opposition will come together and solve the problem. This seems to me only useful and important, not that it will happen in three years, four years or three governments will change before we can solve this problem. And, Madam Minister, I ask you to be correct the second time you meet my implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I also strongly reject, on behalf of the SMC Group, the claims that we reject proposals only because they are opposition proposals or SDS proposals. That's for starters. Then I might also read what the Government has written in its opinion: "The government has already addressed the most urgent shortcomings in 2013 and other shortcomings that require more thorough changes and analyses, including the issue of the ban on disposal and burden, will be resolved by the Government in the future, in accordance with the coalition agreement." It does not say anywhere what these shortcomings are, so I also reject this claim that the Minister is deceiving. However, I would like to point out one other thing, for all the social transfers that the State is giving to the socially disadvantaged, we can see that there is no way that they can always be just. They're never really righteous. There are always some limitations, some criteria that determine who these transfers belong to, who is entitled to them, and who is not. I think we can always agree that these criteria are never entirely fair. There are always recipients who are in some unequal position, and they are recipients who have some real estate, and they are recipients who don't. And if we put ourselves in each other's roles. When I was thinking about this thing, I pictured someone putting their entire life savings on a bank. This person is not entitled to these social transfers, so he is in an unequal position compared to those that do not have these savings on the bank but have them in real estate. This seems to me to be a valid argument that these two people cannot have the same position. As the Minister has already said, abroad someone with real estate is not entitled to such a social transfer for social money. And if we also draw attention to another thing that is a flaw in your proposal, the heirs are not in the same position. The heirs are very different, as are the recipients. Some heirs are socially threatened and protected under current legislation, while other heirs have no problems with returning them, and they can do so. In its decision, the Constitutional Court has already concluded that, in essence, the prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property is the only way in which the State or the local community can effectively ensure that the funds are recovered. However, I would point out the following: the true State and the local community shall not seize the property and shall not receive the sum of the sum which has been recovered from the individual beneficiary, but shall be limited to the amount of two thirds of the funds received by the procurator. If the offender has received financial social assistance for more than 12 months, the inheritance shall be limited to the amount of the financial assistance received, reduced first by a maximum of 12 months and then reduced by one third of the remaining. And if the prodigal received social assistance for less than 12 months, then the inheritance of his property is not limited at all. Once again, if the heirs are socially threatened, then the State or the local community will give up that right. If we are already talking about how the state must be social, I agree that the state must be social and that there are more and more people in the current situation who need help. This is precisely why the State is obliged to provide for everyone and not just some. And it is this institute that allows it to then, in the future, even for future generations and for the widest possible circle of people who need this help that they can do so. I think we expect everything too much from the country to give and give and all too little to realize that we need to be solidarity, so intergenerational, real parents and children among ourselves, if the fears first helped the children, then children are also obliged to help their parents, if they can, of course. And in general, the rules of inheritance are such that heirs are always responsible for the debt of the prodigal. That's the way it is in this case. As it is said, because of this solidarity and just for the sake of solidarity, I find such an institution fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you. Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you, Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! This proposal, which we have received from colleagues here, is very attractive, but it has quite a few such gray zones or some contraband. One is that similar things have been happening since 1976, when the Law on Succession was in force. We have heard of the congregations applying for the property of the prodigal at the time of the death of the one who had paid for it. We have also heard how the Constitutional Court ruled that such an approach is, when a State's contribution is paid for someone who could not afford to survive on his own, an inheritance, a legitimate way, as well as the fact that a ban is made, a sign of a ban on the alienation of property, since it was the only thing that protected such a property actually to remain. We've heard all this before. The applicant also points out that there has been a degree of easing of which the State or the municipality may apply for the property of the prostitute, according to these two thirds of the funds received under the protection allowance. In doing so, they point out that there should be no more discretionary rights so that the State or the congregation can give up. Let me stress that this is not such that this discretional right still exists and that, in fact, the material situation of heirs is taken into account when it comes to inheritance. This means that a person who was socially threatened who could not survive for reasons that could not be affected has in fact been receiving aid all the time. In the case of inheritance itself, each succession process shall specify in particular the material situation of the heirs. I think it's a social justice somewhere, that they're not in the same position the heirs who live with ease or even are rich, or the heirs who have this property as an important source of life. So this discretionary right remains. Furthermore, I think it is right that future legislative changes will separate those owners of property whose values are high from those whose values are low. I think that's fair, we've committed ourselves to this in the coalition treaty and the changes in the legislation will go this way. At the same time, they will also be able to take into account the changes that took place in 2014, as these changes in the findings of the Institute for Social Protection have so far not been detectable. They won't know what they're doing until this year. For this reason, I support that these findings, and that the difference in property values, are subject to legislative corrections. Nevertheless, I would mention that social transfers are a passive approach, but with them we are mitigating social poverty. The data also show that Slovenia remains above European averages after the effectiveness of social transfers. The rules of the game are such that they are targeted at the right group of citizens and I think it is necessary to amend legislation in this direction. Therefore, this proposal, which focuses only on one narrow, desirable issue, I think it is wise not to support it at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Today's debate in the National Assembly is the fruit of the reform of the so-called Social Democratic bloc. So Svetlik's reforms, which in some ways has, at least, Mr Svetlik, a double hesitation. He was a minister from the Desus quota, and at the same time, as we heard yesterday by the head of the Desus Group, a member of the SD or Social Democrats. The State Secretary to Mr Svetlik was current Minister Kopač Mrak. At the previous point, when we talked about student diet, the Social Democratic bloc and the new faces in politics on behalf of the SMC have shown that we are now advocating something that we have adopted before. But we said in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we recognise the error and that we are therefore coming with a reform of legislation, which was necessary at that time to preserve Slovenia's sovereignty. Now we're in a similar story, but with a significant difference. Those who have committed these injustices, which are now being relived by the most endangered layer of the Slovenian population, and those who have been most affected by the crisis do not want to admit this error. They're talking about changing the law. My predecessor, who has been, I think, for 24 years, the director of the Centre for Social Work Trbovlje herself says that it is necessary to amend the legislation, but her performance was not in the direction in which we need to amend or amend our proposal, but in that our proposal offers gray zones and should therefore be rejected. See, from someone who has been actively involved in social issues for 24 years at the highest level in charge of this, I would expect him to serve with concrete proposals and actively approach the amendment of this bad legislation. Interestingly, we are talking about social legislation, about legislation concerning the most vulnerable, broadest vulnerable groups in Slovenia. Take a look at the seats of the SD Group of Members. There's no one here. What an answer this is to this group. Their minister, however, rejects, and a council of the ruling coalition, a well-meaning proposal that would solve at least part of the problem proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The comparisons previously made by the Minister with Austria are incorrect, see how they have done so in Austria. The average salary in Austria is more than once higher than in Slovenia. Their gross domestic product per capita is more than once higher than in Slovenia. Do you know what the difference is?Oh, my God! A thousand euros. Probably, if you live on average with 2,000 euros or if you live on average with 1,000 euros, there's a difference. And in this respect, these comparisons are by no means appropriate. In the economy, you know that marginal rate of return. Up to a certain height, the effect of an individual measure is substantially increasing and over a certain ceiling no longer. What the wealthy Austrians can afford for our situation is hard to afford. In this case, Slovenia, with Svetlik's reform at least in this social field, received one major blow, just from that Social Democratic bloc that has a full mouth for the struggle for social democratic rights. What makes you think that Mr Svetlik gave effect to the social reform he adopted in 2010 only with a delay. Because he knew what disastrous consequences this would have for Slovenian people. And then these measures, which came into force in 2012, and their great implications, which have severely affected the family budgets of the most vulnerable segment of the population, fell directly into the government of Janez Janša, who was engaged in reforming the entire system and, above all, an increasingly growing external debt, which was also the result of that social democratic government. And in 2012, in this first half, people at social work centres were appalled when they faced new situations. That is probably what Mrs Grošelj Košnik could tell you if she was still in this Chamber at the moment she ran the Centre for Social Work of Trbovlje. To say that you will not support this proposal because you like it, then you would understand that this government is here to make unpleasant proposals. What, though, is wrong with the proposal that you like when it solves a particular big problem? Especially since the finance minister is now happy to explain that we are once again a success story. And you're the one who's pulling that minimum standard off the poor. Earlier it was submitted by a fellow Servant who is also not in the hall, an example, if, look, someone who was loading money at the bank wouldn't be justified, and someone who bought the property would be. Here, my colleague has moved on and I apologize deeply to her. But the case isn't exactly the case. Someone must have invested in real estate because he needed a roof over his head. Should he put the money in the bank and sleep under the grace of heaven? He probably had no problem with his apartment, and he had to stay somewhere if he wanted to build a family and build a house or buy an apartment. But the one who had the surplus money, he put it in the accounts. And as we know, in Slovenia those who had surpluses usually did not invest them in accounts in Slovenia, but rather in Cyprus and other tax havens. But that's another problem. Talking about those who are most at risk and are most at risk, as spoke of by fellow Servant and colleague of the Girl, referred to Article 129 of the Law on Succession. See, be honest, read Svetlik’s reform and its 39th paragraph, which states in the second paragraph that, irrespective of the provisions of this 129th Article of the Succession Act, the succession of the prodigal’s assets is limited to the amount of the aid received, reduced by 12 maximum monthly amounts and then reduced by another third of the remaining monthly amounts. So regardless of this 129th paragraph. To say that if the progeny is affected equally financially, then this consistency does not work, it does not. And there's government material that says that because of the financial effects of this, it's impossible to apply, or the government is opposed to this novel. See what explanation she gave: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits also imposes a heavy burden on the State budget, which cannot be assessed without a thorough analysis." It cannot be assessed, but at the same time the government says it is a huge burden. With what argument does the government come here before the Members? We are talking about the personal tragedies of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The government doesn't even know how much this would cost or how much it would cost, when the finance minister of this government explains that we are once again a success story, and you, as I said, deny to some of the most vulnerable parts of our society with some imaginary argument that the dignity that was taken from them by this very law of Light is returned to them. And if there is anything social-democratic in the ministry and even in the ruling coalition and in new faces and in moral-ethical standards, do not reject this novel. Support it in the first reading and prepare additional suggestions. I believe you will have good solutions because you yourself have predicted that this legislation needs to be changed. But be proactive and start with today and tomorrow's vote, because otherwise you will once again prove that you are voting against just because the SDS has proposed it. Look, when we filed this law, I talked to an MP or an MP in the hallway so I wouldn't issue a name, one of the coalition parties, who said, "Very good proposal. I'll back him up." I said, "Will you convince your Members and coalition?" "Yes, by any means. I will support this proposal, and also our Members, I hope they will support it." In the meantime, I do not know what coalition coordination is, obviously, and today I am listening to how you will not support this proposal. So the coalition has led to this, not to support a good proposal, but because of what reasons you have decided to deny aid to this most vulnerable group of citizens and citizens, which is in some way imposed on you by the coalition treaty, the situation in which we are, and the mistake of the past government of the Social Democratic bloc. I therefore suggest that you reconsider and vote in conscience, but not after, I don't know, the bad consciences of those who have prepared this reform and now do not want to acknowledge the mistakes of this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. In today's debate on this subject, I think we must be aware of three things. The first thing is that we Slovenians are very attached to our properties, which is understandable. I think we can all identify with this by just looking at how we've come to our properties in the past. Most of them, those who did not want to be unjust, those who did not get housing built houses themselves and after work, with friends, neighbors, knew themselves, unlike today, to do a lot of things, and they usually put these houses up a little bit bigger because they were counting on their children to live intergenerationally later on. Of course, we are all attached to these properties, and I feel that there is nothing wrong with it. I mean, it's one of our most pleasant qualities. The second thing we need to know is that the government is aware, and so is this coalition, so we have written in the coalition contract that we will exclude property with a smaller value from it. So those who are seriously at risk will no longer have to fear when applying this supplement. And the third thing we need to pay attention to is that we have to be a just society. Given our attachment to real estate and taking into account the fact that we are a social state, we must also take into account the fact that we have to be righteous. Hence, those who receive aid from the State today have a large estate, even more valuable, which, for the above reasons, is somehow unable to give up are receiving help. We understand that and we don't take this right. But when they no longer use this property, it's time for this justice to be exercised that the country gets what it gave back. This is because we can continue to be a social state because, unfortunately, there are always new people who need a social state. That is why I do not think that these changes to the law currently need to be confirmed because we will settle this, and because the situation as it is now, or the system as it is now, is going in the direction of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you. The representative of the Government, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. I cannot deny that I was a secretary of state when this social legislation was adopted and I do not intend to do so either. Nevertheless, I would reject these allegations that we have done nothing to reject the opposition's proposal. Why? In March 2013, there was a well-known analysis of the effects of social legislation. I think that we are in the National Assembly in November 2013, so it was one of the first projects and conditions for me to join the government of Alenka Bratušek as Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to amend social legislation. Despite the hardships that continue to prevail in our country, we have adopted a change in social legislation, which, as far as child support is concerned, has prevented us from taking into account the full value of the child supplement in the income of the family. We are essential because it has been found that the most affected the situation of families and single parent families, we have raised the amount of the child allowance for single parent families by 30%. At the same time, we have also given social work centres discretion in taking into account property that people cannot afford, in deciding on financial social assistance for a few million euros, and in addition, the number of beneficiaries has increased by 8 000. So we can't possibly say that nothing was done. The rejection and ignoring of the fact that the ZUJF and the speech that only the ZUJF had saved this country and that it was necessary to intervene, that it was then necessary in the government of Janez Janša to do just that, but of course, that the people should only create an opinion. However, to reflect only on Borut Pahor's government and then deny that the ZUJF has taken the child allowance, despite already adopting social legislation, that you have reduced the children's allowance of 5th and 6th grades by 10%, abolished the 7th and 8th grades of the child supplement, abolished the state grant, 5th grade of the child supplement, regression, we know what was done. That a number of other interventions were made to the most vulnerable, which is, to say the least, misleading. But it's just that in this National Assembly, it's usually on the part of the colleagues of the SDS. I apologize deeply to the one who accidentally wronged him. If I did something wrong, I apologize. But misleading and imagining that if we do not accept the changes you are proposing, we are unsocial, I take for – without comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u121	Mag. Angie Logar wants a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Look, some of us still have a historical memory in this country. That the Minister, who has apparently been very open to the debate on the SDS proposals, is very clear to me what the SDS proposals are, which she has just made very insultingly, but you have not given her a reminder, but I would expect her to at least have a little look at how her government and her Members are voting in the National Assembly. Her contribution went in the direction of attacking the Public Finance Balance Act. It was this minister, and it was the members of the Social Democrats who voted in favour of the extension of the ZUJF at the December meeting. Look, this argument is true, sorry, unworthy ministerial intervention. Regression and so on, renewal of the ZUJF for 2016. If you do not know that you have confirmed this in the Government, and if you do not know that this has been confirmed by your Members in the National Assembly, please do not use this as an argument to prove your rights. And, yes, once again, Svetlik's reform was unsocial, asocial. Just because you realize that it was, you didn't want to apply it immediately upon acceptance, but two years later, because the weight of anger then fell on another government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u124	Madam President, thank you for your word. Today’s discussion, today’s meeting of the National Assembly is already at six o’clock, and its red thread could actually be drawn in two words — likeness and populism. At the previous point, we addressed the issue of student diet. And what have we heard from the coalition? That it's populism, populism, populism. Now we've moved on to the next item, to the debate on social security benefits, and the story is very similar to turning the tape — some of you still remember the tapes — on page A to page B. And instead of populism and populism, we only have – likeness, likeness, likeness, likeness, likeness. Obviously, for such a coalition and for such a government, any proposal that is not intended to get people even what is left of them, which is not intended to impose an even greater tightening of belts or an even faster sale of state-owned enterprises, is immediately marked as empty populism by a large degree of discreditation, such as a stateless likeness and so on. In short, any changes that are intended to give people something to make life easier for them are immediately pushed aside by some discriminating designations. Look, I find this completely unacceptable. All right, you have the right to your own political position, you have the right to your own opinions in the coalition, and I would only ask you very nicely if you stop the manoeuvres of such discrediting and acting on some proposals to make life easier for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. That's what I had to say in the first place. Now, if I come to the content of my debate. The number of benefits of various forms of social assistance increased from about 420 000 to 600 000. At the same time, the volume of funds increased and increased by more than 50 million per year for the same reasons. Yet, wealth inequality continues to increase dramatically — those who are rich continue to be rich, those who are poor, and those who have fewer each day. I don't know how much you're monitoring the media, but every few months we can see some contribution that rounds, how those who are the richest have either the richest in Slovenia or the richest on the global level, more and more. How their assets increased by 10%, by 15% or how the number of millionaires or billionaires jumped by so much and so. What happens at the same time, we also know. Those who are poor are increasingly poor. Those who do not already have so much to be rich or super rich have fewer each day. If we add to this the fact that economic growth has returned, that this information about the return of economic growth, the government, or most specifically the Minister of Finance, continues to parade around and explain how we are a success story and at the same time poverty continues to deepen, we can quickly find that there is something missing. And normally and naturally, the question arises what this government will do and what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will do in such a situation. Article 2 of the Constitution states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. It's a social state. Anti-social legislation has drastically reduced the number of recipients of the protective supplement by 78%. The number of recipients of social assistance has increased at the same time, but certainly not proportionally, given that we have an ever-increasing social problem. No one dares to object to this information, nor does anyone deny it. In particular, they are supported by a complete set of statistical information and a full range of humanitarian social workers. Slovenia is moving very quickly from being a social state. Very soon it will be no longer a social state. To be more honest, more direct, sharper – Slovenia is no longer a social state. It's gone. Since Article 2 of the Constitution, what remains of it, is only a rule of law. And this legal state is drawn to the plan from day to day and is referred to, especially happily, by the largest government party, Mir Cerar Party, who pulls it on the road every time it needs one apology or another apology either for privatisation or for some other measures that work for the benefit of capital. That's when they pull that magic word, and that's the rule of law, and that's the real legal commitment, and then, of course, everything's okay, it's supposed to be okay. To enlighten you, because you obviously need this, dear coalition, it is the task of the social state that those in a position where they cannot secure a dignified existence themselves to help such people in the country. Such a country is a social state. However, it is certainly not the social state of the country that gives people in existential distress credits that will be placed in an even worse position in the long run. And today the poor are somewhere in Slovenia between a hammer and anvil in a rather unenviable situation: whether they lose part of their property or continue to live and even starve. Social aid is no longer a right, but it is becoming more similar to some form of interest-free credit with a discount. The conditions for receiving social transfers are very strict. The recipient receives aid based on the fact that he does not have sufficient income or assets that could generate income. But he's got some other property that's real estate. It's the only roof over my head. The share of ownership properties in Slovenia is extremely high because they were once built by ordinary people. Thank God! We have heard before that this is a unique thing in Europe. I do not think that this is the kind of person that should be denied in Slovenia, that this is not some kind of a person who should somehow be shamed and embarrassed to mention it in comparison with Europe. I think it's some kind of stranger we should be proud of. Thank God that in the past an ordinary man could also build his own house and build his own work, a roof over his head. The system of social assistance and protective allowances is now designed to deplete those at the social bottom. Such a country is a wasteland, but it has little or nothing in common with the social state. Temporary social assistance amounts to €269 today. This amount does not make it possible to survive even in extreme cases. With such assistance, this can only be done with a high degree of ingenuity and inter-human solidarity. Don't get me wrong, very nice and thank God people are helping each other. But in a situation where the rich get more and more and more and when the poor get more and more poor, it is shameful to need people who are robbed of everything who are poor, who are at the social bottom, to help with some non-institutional security network, relying on solidarity and the help of their acquaintances, their friends, their neighbors, their family members, etc. That is exactly what we have for such cases and for such a situation, we have a social state. We have the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for such cases and situations. The proposal to amend the anti-social legislation described is on the table today. Of course, the decision is with the coalition parties. And among these parties, you are also the Social Democrats. In the light of all the words of the SD, we should have exemplary social transfers with us, especially since the Social Democratic Minister has been in office at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and has been there for quite some time. So what do we have instead? The gap between the words and the actions of the Social Democrats is increasing every day and it really seems that only Dejan will remain at the head of the party until the end of the term of office and nothing else. This is all the more so because the general direction of the government is such that we can expect even greater social equality and an increase in poverty in the future. The government privatises, deepens cuts in the public sector and promises new layoffs for the richest and the capital. Of course, in such situations, money flows from the poor to the rich rather than the other way around. This week, very concretely, for example, the government and the coalition have fallen ill for political celiacism and released from the hands of 33 million heavy companies Zito, of course of national importance. In the United Left, we will support the proposal for a law that is now before us. I would point out, however, that instead of depriving recipients of social assistance, resources need to be looked at elsewhere, specifically for the richest ones. Last but not least, it is the job of the social state to benefit from its redistributive mechanisms to take where there is too much and to give where there is too little. Social assistance must not be credit, but it must be non-refundable aid. Social assistance must become a unconditional right, not charity for those who are no longer in need of capital and have pushed them to some social margin because it sees no longer the benefits of their work. However, today's proposal, despite all these words, is only a fraction of the mosaic of the necessary changes that we must make in order to bring Slovenia back to the path of Article 2 of the Constitution, back to the social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mrs Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would have started by transferring the security allowance from the pension allowance because there were no contributions paid for this security allowance. Therefore, for this purpose, the pension fund was used for the social security allowance. Thus, by adopting new social legislation in 2010, this social security allowance was exempted from the pension allowance and transferred to the competence of social work centres. The fact is that the Heritage Act of 1976 in Article 228 provides that the succession of the person receiving the aid in accordance with the social protection rules shall be limited to the amount of the aid received. This provision shall be made in such a way that the State or the municipality becomes the owners of the work of the deceased’s property, and in this case the succession of the heirs shall be limited. It is true, however, that all heirs of course are not poor, so in this case they can pay the amount that the deceased received as social security aid and then inherit the entire estate or other estate of the deceased. In these cases, however, if, under Article 129 of the Succession Act, these beneficiaries are poorer, the State may, even or the municipality may cancel the inheritance or cancellation of the refund of this amount paid, and in this case, of course, these heirs may inherit the entire property. On a proposal from the SDS, the government gave a negative opinion. The fact is that the new Social Security Benefits Act in 2013 addressed many of the shortcomings of the system's social regulation in 2010. However, there are, of course, examples to be taken into account, and the government will respond accordingly after the analysis has been carried out. This is what the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs said in this National Assembly today. It also highlighted the provisions of the coalition contracts with which all coalition partners committed themselves to relieve the remuneration of the security allowance for these owners, who own less property, of the filling on their properties. Of course, I expect the government to deliver on these promises as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you. The word is given by Master Jan Jenko, to prepare Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you again! My dear opposition, we are not yet in the years of fat cows. They say every seven years it's dry and every seven years it's rich. And we can't spend what we spent in 2004-2008, or maybe a year earlier or later. It is true that we are doing better in the economy or in general, but that we should spend everything, as you suggest, unfortunately we are not. Then we'll be in a bigger crisis than we were. I keep listening by one opposition party to what Desus should do. True, in the case of a protective supplement, these are mainly older than 63 years of age and 65 years of age. But we can't afford more than we have. We still have to save. However, I must say that Desus is currently the most committed to maintaining the regression and coordinating pensions so that they do not fall in reality as they have been. That was our priority. In the future, however, we will also advocate the granting of protective allowances and even greater social assistance. I still believe that Slovenia is still a social state. Now for a few more statistics. I have them for 2013, but the application for a security allowance and cash social assistance together was just over 27,000. The seals or markings on the property were about 4 000 500 and the state inherited in 2013 in 270 cases. Big or small. For the one who lost it, a lot, in general, quite a bit. It is said that the state has not used this instrument very much since 1976. Above all, the local community is very much giving up on this. This is probably also due to the development of the information society. I'll say it like that, one day I'll use the word that's yours, I'll say it all the time, thank God for informational development. Slovenians or citizens of Slovenia, at least in the past, have used very much unrelated systems of records and there have been huge abuses, which are now less and less on the basis of this. I also know how children's allowances, including protective allowances and other social transfers, were shared on the basis of these unrelated systems. And some still do. For example, a husband and wife live on a different address so that they still receive some income that they would not otherwise receive. This is still happening in our society. In this we are experts from Slovenians or Slovenian citizens. The actual social situation needs to be identified and a really good analysis needs to be made. Yes, the analysis actually already exists, but I think there's still a need for further analysis. They will, of course, be paid out of state money. Maybe there'll be less abuse on this account. I hope so. I will not support this bill, despite the fact that it is also for older persons. Not right now, because I don't think we're in that financial condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Let Mr Bojan Podkoršek prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! I have prepared myself for this debate, and I have also collected some specific numbers and, if you will allow me, I will also mediate them. When we look at the recipients of social assistance in 2012, 2013 and 2014, we see that the number of beneficiaries is increasing dramatically. Let's see the money. In 2012 the good 418 thousand recipients, that was 103 million. Let's see 2014, 572 thousand recipients, that was 146 million. Let's look at the extraordinary cash assistance – in 2012 37 thousand 131 recipients, that was a good 11 million, in 2014 as many as 61 thousand 406 recipients and 18.5 million recipients. And so on, I do not list the number of foreigners receiving financial assistance and extraordinary assistance. Of course, I'm more interested in the situation in Pomure. Statistical region of Pomurje, 27 municipalities, about 121 000 people, 6.6% of the total Slovenian territory and 6.3% of the total Slovenian population. Currently, the only statistical region where registered unemployment has increased to 21.4%, the latest data, according to the number of people, this means a good 10 thousand 500 people are waiting for work. And if I look now at the rise of the recipients of social assistance in 2013, 2014, this is dramatic. This is not a social state if we say that the number of recipients, such as the child supplement, increased from 2013 to 7 000 477. And other numbers – cash social assistance 2013 – 6 000 692 last year 7 000 804. Next up, a state scholarship. In 2013 a thousand 994, last year 3 thousand 663. And basic health insurance. In 2013 6 000 766, last year almost 8 000. It is true that when I read these numbers and analyze them, it must also be borne in mind that any law has also changed at that time, and this must be taken into account. Even if we look at the global level, our gross social product. The Commission considers Thank God, a little optimism after years of pessimism. But last year, ladies and gentlemen, we still created 0.16% less than in 2008, which means that we had 6 years of vacuum, and other countries were developing. And here's our problem. Today, this is an opportunity given by the SDS to open a debate not only on this law, but also on the concept of the development of this country. And we should also talk about who and what will fund this social state that we have, and I would like to keep it, and I would like to keep the constitution unchanged. I don't think it's decent to be distracted or distracted by those who were in the coalition when we were taking really brutal ZUJF. But there was no other help. Where it's not, God can't take it. Unless you have someone else. And we should finally talk about how to create so that we can share. So it's about concepts. There must be some people here and outside this hall who also advocate democratic socialism. Let's see if it's okay for us or not. We have to ask ourselves what has led us to this crisis, which unfortunately is still going on in Slovenia, do not close our eyes. Has it brought us into this crisis what successful countries have, especially a well-functioning market and the rule of law? I find that hard to believe that this has led us to a crisis. It's hard to get into a crisis something you don't really have, because we just don't have a rule of law and we don't have a functioning market. And we should be working in this area. I do not mind that we are facing, for example, a manifesto of democratic socialism, which some believe would suggest a way out of the crisis in which Slovenia is still, as it is said, located. And this manifesto begins, quote: "The period of self-determination of capitalism is nearing its end. In the second half of the 1970s, when a period of rapid and stable economic growth ended in the developed world, an attack on labour rights by capital forces began." End of quote. Of course, when we talk about this concept, about the concept of democratic socialism, those who are a little older, we immediately get an association with failed self-government socialism and thus the related Marxist truism, that history repeats itself: first tragedy, then farce. At the same time, constitutional concerns arise. The valuable starting points on which the ideology of democratic socialism is based differs substantially from those on which the Constitution, the European Constitution and the fundamental concepts of Western civilization are based. The market economy is an integral part of it. The relationship between constitutional goods, individual freedom and equality is also radically different in democratic socialism. Free and fair competition is, in my firm belief, a value guaranteed directly by the Constitutional Treaties of European integration, which we have decided on in the broadest democratic principle, this is in the referendum. We are just one small part of a global event. Slovenia is just a small wheel in this big global machine, without which the global system survives, as it survives, for example, a human organism without a drop of blood. But it's not the opposite. The economy of Slovenia and its welfare depend on the world economy. Having democratic socialism inside and outside the economy, which must be able to compete in global market conditions, is like sending to the Olympic Games a hockey team made up of amateur art skaters and skaters. But, ladies and gentlemen, we actually know what we have to do. The recipes are written, we have them, I'm sure, at least most of them in this country. We need the earliest possible enforcement, let's say at least something, the following economic and social measures, so that no one will think that I am defending only the economy or capital, as many of us have seen, those who have certainly not even looked at the headlines of our economic programme, where we wrote: Christian democratic economic policy is the same as the socio-market part of the economy. And what measures might we have to discuss today or as soon as possible, since it will be too late tomorrow? But that's not enough, we should also realize them. But here it's kind of like there's no will, like there's no power, like we're not aware of the state of life of those people we're talking about today who don't have a piece of meat that they don't have for a family lunch tomorrow. Measures to increase economic efficiency, such as reducing national regulations, facilitating conditions for market access, abandoning restrictive practices, increasing market competitiveness, tax relief – not tax credit, so as not to be misheared – tax relief for less paid jobs and investors, sales of government or, more precisely, state investments that result in loss, immediate sales, general reduction of state bureaucracy, we have been talking about this for years, it is still necessary to wait five years for an entrepreneur to obtain a building permit for a production hall. Next, the sale of all state and parastatal shares in banks – of course there will be no one to hold me to the floor, the SID Bank has a special status. Next, a government education programme to highlight the fact that the main measure of success in the competitive industry is the profit and satisfaction of people, read: workers and employers, not speculation; support for the acquisitions carried out by foreign companies and so on and so on. But when we talk about concepts, then we actually see that we need to talk about virtually all social subsystems, now I'm not talking about the education system on purpose. But we will once have to bite into an apple, whether it is sour or sweet, and actually draw a goal and decide whether we are going to the apprenticeship system, which Europe also supports, because some Member States of the European Union are offering us assistance, not only to us, the whole EU, but we simply cannot do it. What the state urgently needs is the undeniable rule of law. We were also reminded of this by the Slovenian economy at the summit of the Slovenian economy in autumn 2012. I remembered it very well. So the country urgently needs the rule of law, transparency and, above all, pluralism, focus – this is a Slovenian word that means decentralisation. Slovenia is obviously only inside or, I will say, two thirds of Slovenia appear only within the Ljubljana bond. That is why I spoke earlier about the data in Pomurje, but perhaps Koroška and Dolenjska could speak the same way. We have simply, ladies and gentlemen, forgotten the coherent regional development. And indeed, it seems that the peripheral regions, in particular the Pomurje, are two light years away from Ljubljana. I propose to the government, I am taking the initiative here, now there is no minister, I suggest to the government that the next destination, the next region that the government would visit, is a pomur. Maybe the government already has this in the program. Congratulations, if that's the case. So we need decentralisation and we need openness. We're still hermetically closed for foreign investment. And if I'm back at Pomour's, because we have domestic fantastic companies, micro-enterprises, hats down, but most jobs in Pomour are being paid by foreign capital, whether someone likes it or not, and people are happy. On a micro level, however, we need a free and responsible individual. Christian Democrats understand freedom in the context of strong commitment. Freedom and responsibility go hand in hand. And the constitutional task of the state is to make all that I have said possible. First, get out of here where there's nothing to look for. And that concludes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u132	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear fellows and fellows! When I sat for two days in this National Assembly, yesterday and today, we talked about banking, today about subsidies, then about a security supplement, sometimes it seems to me that we are not living in the same country or that we are all in one big block in the centre of Ljubljana. If I go back to yesterday's session when we talked about banking, about our proposal, I've noticed on my right a lot of ridicule, saying that it's pointless, that it's pointless, that we're revealing where our biggest experts are, or those who are fools have given Slovenian billions. And that was nonsense. This morning, when we started for two hours to extend our students to have a chance to eat, we heard that we were going with a good policy, and there were many reasons for that. With regard to this Act of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I must be honest that I was very pleased to see on the list that a colleague from the SMC, Mrs Grošelj, applied for the debate. Why was I so happy? She was the director of the Social Work Centre for 24 years. If anyone in this room can tell us all the stress, the problem with the sleeve. When she started her speech, she told our party or our group that we would go back to loving politics. These are her words, and when I listened to her discussion, one wonders if it makes sense to sit here. Do we not see problems in this love of Slovenia or are we moving? When I was not yet a Member, I faced this problem, which we are talking about today in this law, many times. People tell me that Borut Pahor's government adopted this law, and in the time of the Yangtze government, this law came into force. I tell everyone I know that. But I also say that I don't think that's the most important thing right now when people say that. But it's important that this mistake is resolved. Now I'm going to tell you which people are telling me. People who have worked their whole lives have built their own home, taken care of their children so that they could learn to have jobs, are honest citizens and citizens and have a pension of 250 euros when they had a protective allowance and had 340 or 350. That's what the housewives tell me when they've been at home all their lives, taking care of maybe a small farm, taking care of their husbands, their homes, their children. And when they turned 65 or 70, I think they got 145 euros. It was possible that this lady might have gone to the store once with her money or even to the hairdresser, and we took that away from them. Let me come back a little bit last night. We didn't want to listen to each other when we talked about billions. Today, we do not want to listen when we talk about people who have real problems, real everyday problems. These are the people who come to the intersection and are on all four roads of the Table Blind Street. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we do not find a common language here in these small things for these small people, I am afraid we will not find a common language in the following points. Dear colleagues, I will gladly support this marriage. I am aware that it is not realistic for us to sit together to make it better. But I can assure you something. Of course, it doesn't make sense that I'm talking to the SD Group, because they're not in the Chamber, but I'm telling my colleagues from Desus and SMC. This point will be at the table of the National Assembly for as long as you do not realize that this is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you. Now I will also come by myself to say that I am also a representative of the Social Democrats. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! Today we're talking about socialism and demagogism and what's said and what's written. And I took a few minutes of time and flew over the coalition contract of this government, so that's what's written down. Allow me a few quotations that summarize the social field, which is so much talked about, and today's debate shows that nothing is done or even against improvement in this area. Both in the previous marriage and in the same way. However, the previous law has made it more possible to improve the social situation of the younger, and in this area more so as to improve the social situation of the elderly, who even have their own advocates in the National Assembly. I quote the Coalition Treaty: "The State must be responsive and responsible in relation to its citizens and residents and social groups, which means that it must act in accordance with legal standards." And conclusion: "...to be proactively mindful of the problems and needs of its citizens and residents." I hope that you have read the coalition agreement by the Members of the coalition groups. The following reads: "The Coalition will strive to reduce the proportion of people below the poverty threshold by promoting employment and the work of all age groups and the simple, transparent and fair application of all forms of assistance, simplifying procedures and deploying available resources in accordance with the principle of solidarity and justice." The Coalition Treaty of the Ethics and Moral Government. Thirdly, measures: "Receipts of a property holding less property will be relieved of the prohibition on the disposal of property." I would kindly ask members of the coalition to look at which articles of this law are open, that we are at first reading and that you have the ideal opportunity to start your coalition contract not only by speaking but also by participating. We've prepared a bill for you in the SDS. If you let the law go to second and third readings, we are also prepared to listen to your arguments, the amendments to make this law, unlike the original law, a life and, above all, a human law. On the other hand, it is true that much of this coalition has problems with this law, because they were part of that coalition that made this law, too, to the detriment of our citizens. However, it is not only the infamous ZUJF of one other government, but it is also the fault of the so-called Svetlik Law, which we then called who waited until its entry into force in 2012. I remember how many press conferences and public questions the then Minister of Mags had. Vizjak, when he had to defend himself that the government did not change this law, but the former, social government, we told her, or you told her, made an unsocial law. I understand that the government is against it because – here I have a magnetogram – Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, we know what she was doing in that government, we know what her function is in this government. "The purpose of this law is to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion and to promote work activity or maintain motivation for work." And to conclude: "We therefore believe that with the solutions to the transfer of state pension, the abolition of state pension and the transfer of a protective allowance into the social assistance system, we are establishing a more transparent and, in particular, a more socially equitable system." Almost a quarter of the country’s poverty rate has increased. And the same government, which has the option, is, at the suggestion of an opposition party that does not think, in particular, acting more effectively to change this system. Tell me! We said, "We were wrong too, we're ready for a change." We're giving you the option, "we're wrong, we're ready to change, because practice has rejected the theory." Easy. But you won't do it again. I know, as I said before, one mistake is in this law – the SDS proponent. Everything else would probably be acceptable. If I didn't say what it would be like for the SDS to have a law like Svetlik wrote, we'd have a soul today, how the Yanshe government did everything wrong again. But today, from SD Members, only the Vice-President is on duty here, and the others are probably looking for solutions in the field of social legislation, which will benefit our citizens. This is more about a joke than it really is, because I believe they are not dealing with these social problems. In 2010, we agreed that it was necessary to amend social legislation, order of recipients and all that. But we warned the then minister to be careful about these issues, because we all know when we touch social services, we usually touch sensitive areas, sensitive areas. And that's what people are most sensitive to, because they grab their wallets and see how the state helps them or not. That's when we warned you to pay attention, certain things in this law are wrong. And today we have evidence in practice that the individual provisions of this law have been completely flawed. Analysis carried out in 2012 when it was mag. Visjak predicted that when the system was in force for at least six months, it would get specific numbers on what was wrong with the law, the Svetlik's law, so that solutions would be made. The government has fallen, the former government has not dealt with it, the present thinks about what and how to deal with it. And then it comes to help mostly SDS, sometimes some kind of law is passed in New Slovenia, colleagues of the United Left, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, but it has to be mined, even where Members of the SDS are signed. I believe a lot of you think, "great solutions, but, in the first three months of this rule, they taught us if it's SDS, but it's against, but we'll already tell you why we're against – because we have to be." Such is the policy of new faces as to how different policies will be coordinated, transparent, and the pressure on the button shows that it is exactly the same as the governments of other left-wing parties. Above all, I must say that I am appalled at the individual words of Mr Desus. I really didn't want anything bad. But once again, I emphasize, always with you, never blame anything, but I do feel like I don't want to be offensive, that sometimes you don't feel like you're part of a coalition – government, prepare something!You're part of the government. You have a minister in the government, MPs from the entire government coalition. The government is preparing something. You are part of the government, you have ministers in the government, Members from this government coalition. So you're the main decision-makers. So sometimes I really feel that Desus is a little in the government with one leg, and with the other leg a little outside the government. Of course, as I said before, the SD understands that they have problems with the adoption of this law, because that government was primarily their government and it is sometimes difficult to admit a mistake. But it was very useful for the citizens to admit it. And I'm stressing again. We're at the first reading of the law today. A few articles of content are open. If you have any suggestions, even in accordance with your coalition contract, which discusses how you will solve the matter, prepare amendments, you can also contact the SDS Group for an interview, re-think, find solutions and make the law a living. To the conclusion. No, we don't want to be liked, we just want to be real. Every day, every week, new stories are written every month, as I said in the previous law, practice sometimes rejects theory, that is, marital matter, and why we should not follow the spirit of time, and especially the needs of citizens who turn to us, who ask us to help them to listen and take a step further in this area, namely in the area of regulating social affairs, social welfare benefits. Why not? You have made a mistake, we have made a mistake, let us correct and move on to new laws, to new solutions that I myself as an opposition Member miss mainly by those who are supposed to rule, but not by ourselves wondering who should be the first to take a step by coalition parties and ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Jurša, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Given that the topic is very serious and that more or less Members contribute to this issue by their power, it is true that the debates of individual Members are appropriate for who sits: whether sitting in a coalition or in opposition. When you're in the opposition, it's much easier to be liked. If I remember correctly, because I was sitting in the National Assembly at the time, it is true that we have accepted these matters or accepted them, you call them the Svetlik reform or the Svetlik Law or Svetlik's proposal. Later there was also one opportunity and one opportunity, Mr Lisec, that when we took over with you and the government, the second government of Janez Janša, to go back and correct the law, and to correct it. You mentioned several times, as well as the debaters from the SDS Group, that someone thought it was a measure taken by the government of Janš. You're saying he wasn't. And he really wasn't. But the opportunity and opportunity was to change the matter with us. As the biggest opposition party, you knew and were responsible for running this country. And when you have a responsibility to run the country, it's something special and different, like when you're sitting in the opposition, and you're proposing what is, of course, desirable and necessary, but because of the economic situation we have in the country, it's not possible. I would like to make a procedural proposal at the end, because I also applied in this regard to the word. It would be very good to remind Mr Lisco that it is not a question of where Desus is and how Desus participates in any of the governments. We are state-made, because we can so far participate both in the right-centre government and in the left-centre government. And we consider that to be an honor in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u137	Finally, there was some procedural proposal, but I still estimate that there is an abuse of procedural procedure. Now he has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your word. Look, this rotation, what should anyone ever do, I just don't know if it makes any sense. Many things could have been done in this country in 1990, such as lustration, but they would not have dealt with the problems we are now facing. I don't know how many years ago, but it didn't happen. It is said that certain proposals made by us, you or anyone, come about when one learns that a matter needs to be corrected, that it needs to be improved, because the existing solution is not a good one. I think these insights, when someone proposed something, are unfounded and irrelevant. Let us focus on the debate and solutions that our Group proposes in concrete terms with this law. That there would be no mistake when Minister Svetlik, who was a member of the Pahor's government and his current secretary of state, proposed this solution, we opposed it. So in this part, we're consistent, so the perceptions of how we act, whether we're in the coalition or in the opposition, I don't kind of accept, because they just don't. It is no coincidence that there is no minister here today, because she was that important member of that government, as an official, as a secretary of state, who advocated the solution they had adopted at the time. And it is not without reason that those Members of this coalition were missing, who were at the time defending the solution that was being adopted. It must be said, however, that this solution of the Pahor government is aimed exclusively at small people, against small people, against those who have problems. In this country, the recipients or beneficiaries of social transfers are, in fact, the only ones with mortgages. The only one. Those who are entitled to social security benefits are one of the few who are at risk in this country and must ensure that they obtain it if they have property, they must allow the book of mortgages on their property. On the other hand, we have proposed in the previous government the abolition of certain privileges for certain groups – excessive pensions allowances, excessive allowances and I do not know what else. And when we suggested that these privileges should be abolished or that these privileges should be burdened with mortgages, it was rejected. I'm afraid that's the way it was. In fact, what bothers me today in this debate is that those who somehow stand up as advocates of the rights of socially disadvantaged people who live below the poverty line, on the other hand, advocate the continuation of this instrument by which the state or the congregation sits, or anyone else, on their property. I don't think that's right. Why don't you also put a burden on scholarships in this way, which are just as social corrective? Why don't you charge, like, student or student food subsidies, which are just as social corrective, and this is related to the status, to say that you're in the education system, without distinction, without establishing social censorship? Here, when we have the suggestion that only those who are beneficiaries of an additive on the basis of social censorship are, however, a mortgage is placed on them. In a way that the current Pahor government has set up this instrument, we cannot talk about social aid, but rather about the credit that the government has given to those who were potentially entitled to receive this supplement. It's a loan if someone has to return what someone took advantage of before him. Why don't you do so with, I don't know, Mr Kučan's privileged pension, and with some other compensation that they receive on the basis of some other decisions of some kind, which is responsible for certain matters and receive them permanently as an addition to a pension? Why don't you do it? To remind you, those who, when this law was passed, were not here that the Pahor's government, or Minister of Svetlik and then Secretary of State Anja Kopač Dark, as well as members of the then Pahor's coalition, were escorted and defended in a procedure in the National Assembly with one simple sentence: it is a matter of equal burden sharing. You can check it in the magnetograms. That is what Mr Levanič said, that is what Mrs Frangež said, that is what Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič and all the others who advocated this solution of the Pahor government. Now I ask everyone here present, including the government, whether this law really is such that the burden is evenly distributed. There were problems back then, of course, they were bigger. There were crisis situations, GDP fell, revenues fell, but only this social category was burdened with some mortgage when it was entitled to some compensation to help itself at the lower threshold of survival. Those who were above the average above the ceiling and received the supplements were not burdened by Pahor’s government. I'm sorry, aren't I? I must only conclude here that it is in some way fair that these burdens are actually distributed evenly in this country, that they receive social transfers and aid under similar conditions, on equal terms, so that the privileges are shared under the same conditions. It is unacceptable, however, that the highest tax in this country is paid by those who are offered something in some way and, on the other hand, at the same level, we measure the burden at the same time. If you get 200 euros in aid, it's 200 euros in mortgages. If you get 200 euros next month, there's 200 more mortgages and so on. All those who have your mouth full of this sociality, I suggest you actually give this measure, which is actually social and puts this social category in some normal position, to support. There's no valid reason. Now that you are boasting about economic growth, which is probably higher than 2.5%, there are many reasons, many reasons why there would be even an ominous law on public finances. And the reasons why the Pahor's Government proposed this law are falling into the process. There's no valid reason anymore. If you are to share money, I do not know which groups, as it now sounds, and when some categories are negotiated for promotions, then these restrictive measures that affect the weakest groups must be eliminated first. This is some of the most normal steps this country and this policy can take. It is pointless to insist on this solution. Blaming someone for suggesting it and perhaps not before is pointless. All of you in this National Assembly have had the same opportunity in these eight months to propose this, and no one has taken advantage of this opportunity. Of the seven parliamentary parties, we are the only ones that have been proposed. Nobody took advantage of it. Therefore, these allegations, which you are referring to our Group of Members, are entirely unfounded. Such measures, which will have to be corrected, supplemented and so on, will continue to be a great deal. We'll propose them, too, and you can propose them. And they're showing up. But there's no point in accusing anyone. Perhaps as soon as we have received all those political shocks from another Janša government, this law could simply be abolished. Maybe. But then, due to the situation of the second priority that we have also removed, big projects have been made in the area of pensions, in the field of the labour market. In the area of property reform, we have set up a Slovenian State holding company, a bad bank and so on, modified and prepared these constitutional solutions, which are now the basis for this decision and so on. In the short term, capital changes have been made in these areas I am talking about. In one year, gentlemen, because there was so much time for the other government of Janša, all the measures could not be taken. But it has been almost as long as this government, with the knowledge and inventory it has made in all these areas, in which civil groups, political groups, interest associations, economic associations and so on are alerted. Still, nothing moves. No major action in these eight months since this government has yet been given a table — not in the field of work, not in the field of finance, not in the field of social affairs, not in the field of education, virtually nothing. And what you are boasting about has come about in itself – economic growth. Interesting. I suggest you think about it. It probably won't be the first time that you've encountered this solution, because in case you run it over, as you normally do, and push your head down, it might happen that next month you'll have the same marriage back on the table. Whether it will be proposed by our parliamentary group or by some other group, we will see. In this area, however, it is likely that the burden of receiving social transfers cannot be met both in the long term and in the short term. This is simply an unfair burden on what is financed by the State budget in certain categories of inhabitants. However, the government of Mira Cerar will face it, the Mira Cerar coalition will face it and we will discuss these things because they are being thrown out of the system and are in particular impeding those groups that are helping themselves most within this country. They are elderly people who have or have no low pensions, and they have some dead property, and the state tires of it. While, on the other hand, leaving an intact group of privileged categories with high pensions and additionally receiving large allowances, large or large additions to this without anyone sitting on their property. All I can do is find that the privileged allowances are, and they can do an analysis at the Ministry of Labour, or the government, and you will find that these privileged supplements are significantly higher than those transfers that you have anticipated to enter the mortgage. They're much taller. I believe that it is wise for this law to be put into effect in order to continue the procedure and then through a second hearing, if necessary, to adapt any other solutions. Otherwise, it is inevitable to deal with this law by means of a solution or similar to that of these social groups. And this will happen, as I said, either by continuing to repeat our proposal or by any other group of Members will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Trcek, get Mr. Franz Jurša ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. I won't be salting my mind who could have done something, but he didn't because people have a long-term memory. Can only mean that we had a related marriage already in preparation in the United Left, the SDS beat us to the punch. Their marriage is a good basis for novelization, and that is what we will do. I belong to a generation that read Alan Ford, Mr Cerar is a little older than me, he even played a guitar in a rock and roll band called Alan Ford. Since it's happening, he's obviously the best Superhik guy who steals from the poor to give to the rich. One lady, the most excellent expert on poverty in our country, asked herself in an interview: what does Miro Cerar know about poverty? What does Miro Cerar know about poverty? Since time is somehow passing, I hope that Miro Cerar and this government know something about poverty, here we have some good legal basis, in some regular procedure, let's make an amendment, I come from Maribor, where jobs happen at the daily level, let's finally start dealing with serious topics. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, President. Given the time I have at my disposal, I just have to say in the beginning that I will not be able to say everything I have prepared for today's debate, but I would like to say some basic things that I would like to conclude. In view of the law which has been passed, or which we refer to as Svetlikov, we must say that certain corrections have already occurred in the past and that there will also be fundamental changes in 2016, in accordance with the coalition agreement we have signed or the coalition agreement we have signed. I am aware and we are probably also aware that under the poverty threshold there are already 14.5% of the population in Slovenia. That's 290,000 of our citizens and citizens. Among the poor there is even one half of all pensioners living below the poverty line. The concern for these people should in fact be present both in those parties that have an omen of social life as you do in all other democratic parties. When we are talking about the Social Security Benefits Act, we cannot, in any case, circumvent the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which we have recently corrected in part. But this is not the article that these matters relate to, but this is Article 123 and Article 124. These two articles discuss some of the responsibilities that parents have toward their children and vice versa, the obligations that children have toward their parents. I am convinced that in some cases this obligation to parents is not there, and that these parents are actually under the poverty threshold quite often. If this is the obligation, then the age and help of young people to the elderly, thus enabling a better age, is also ensured. If we are talking about a protective supplement, I also have to say that the threshold for achieving this is EUR 465. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec, who is last reported on this work, then gets the word of a representative of the Government and of the proposers. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Today we have heard a great deal about the need to re-analyse and do reports and analyses. See, this is a report that was drafted and published, and I have already said, discussed by the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons in February. It has more than a hundred pages and you don't need a whole new analysis, just open it, there are tables inside. And the tables are eloquent. And this is not a success story, if it says that today the proportion of people at risk of social exclusion was 20.4%, 2008 was 18.5%. This is not a success story to read in the media today, as Mr Jurša said, that 290,000 people live below the poverty threshold. That at the time the drafters of the Social Security Benefits Act were saying that it was the most social law, but today statistics show that the government is relying on statistics on many occasions, at least the representatives of the Ministry, and then you will believe this report, which we discussed in February, let me say again, on a committee where the ministry has also said, yes, there are alarming things, we will have to do something, we will do as soon as possible. It's almost May. On these proposals, we hear that we are liked, populist and so on. Far from it! That's the first reading. Then you can help with your suggestions further if you think there is more to be done. The Association of Retired Associations often points to absurd situations where older people do not have enough income to properly heat their apartments in winter, but because of fear of the book ban on property theft, they do not want to apply for a protective allowance. That's what this report says. On Monday we listened to the minister, who asked her colleague from SD what we could do to reduce the risk of poverty or to help the most vulnerable, said for quite some time, and said among other things: "It is important, of course, that we simply say that we give people leverage, that they can get rid of it themselves, and that they will not seek the help of the state in some way, but we must let people face their problems and help them." This is one such proposal. This is one of the suggestions that we can give people a feeling, a sign that they have a future, that they will be able to ask for a security supplement in the future, and that the state will not sit, as it were, on property. When the burden is on the heirs, we also cause trouble for the heirs. Look, those who apply for a protective supplement, obviously children can't help them, obviously children have social distress, and they can't help them, or they're single, and then no one can help them. And here we are talking about intergenerational cooperation, as one of the colleagues said that children should help. Yeah, who's helping? Here it comes to helping the state with a protective supplement but at the same time sitting on the property; it is some kind of credit, but it is a bad loan. We have heard in the debate a few arguments why we should be against this bill. In most cases, I have heard explanations, which are also found in the government's opinion, as in the previous law, when the coalition MPs merely from the government's opinion turn the sentences a little bit and say what is written there. And they say sometimes things are unfair. I agree that sometimes there are unfair cases, but if we can solve them with such a change, then that is so much better that we can eliminate these injustices. So some children can help, others cannot; some can return it as heirs, others cannot. Now we can do that no one will have to return and that the elderly will be able to have their own real estate. Not that there are absurd situations in which a person lives in a decaying house, a congregation or a state encroachs on this house, this property because the person has applied for a protective allowance, but cannot pay for electricity or water, let alone supply that house. Then what does the state have to do with this property? Nothing. In the end, it only costs because some houses are so decomposing that they endanger the environment. When you talk about those who are socially threatened, you may ask that you do not have to return as an heir — that is not true! The Succession Act says - but now I will read to you, because obviously some of you say what the Government wrote in the opinion, but you have not read what the article says and what things are about. The Act on Succession in Article 129 states: "The Republic of Slovenia or the municipality in the budget from which aid was financed to the progeny in accordance with the social protection rules may be waived until the end of the legacy treatment of the right to reimbursement of this aid, if they are the heirs of the progeny, his spouse or his children who are themselves in need of assistance." Everything's fine and fine. However, in 2013, the Act on Social Security Benefits, which states in its 39th Article, reads as follows: "Despite the provisions of Articles 128 and 129 of the Law on Succession", then states the Official Gazette, "until the new regime for the limitation of the inheritance of the property of the prodigal who has benefited under the social protection rules, the succession of the prodigal property shall be limited to the amount of two thirds of the funds received by the procurator from the protection allowance, the exemption of payment of social security services and the contribution to the payment of the funds intended for payment or the payment of the right to family assistant." I say again, in view of this, when this law was adopted or in 2013, the SDS Group has made an amendment to this article so that those unable to pay it back will be rescinded or pardoned, as is the case with the Succession Act. However, this amendment has not been adopted. And do not be misled by saying that those who are social problems themselves or who need social assistance do not have to return what is forsaken. That's not true! For the second time, read the government’s opinion — of course, we too — by the coalition, but then read the laws that the Government is talking about or what they write to you about. As for what has been done so far, and what has not been done. Yes, in 2012, then Minister Vizjak of the Ministry of Labour said several times at the press conferences that the law which entered into force had entered into force. 1. 2012, The Social Security Benefits Act is not socially oriented and will not make it clear that analysis is necessary – that a half-year analysis is needed and this analysis has been carried out and is also covered in this report by the Institute for Social Protection. According to that report, the government of Alenka Bratušek then adopted or adopted the amendments you spoke about at the time of her government and the two-thirds return. But this report, which we discussed in February, says that this is not enough to essentially have to write things down. Therefore, once again, all those on the Labour Committee should know these matters, but today, despite all the figures I mentioned earlier, how many percent live below the poverty line, some still say in the National Assembly that this law is fair, that I have a social state and so on. Then how did you get those numbers? How can you tell these numbers about the story of success and that marriage is righteous? Once again, I think far away from the fact that marriage is just. As far as Desus is concerned, I must say, indeed, as Mr Jurša has said, they are always in the government, supporting the right- centred, right-wing, left-wing government, not that there is, and they could also suggest, and now we could propose, not just Desus, all of them. Look, once again, the report's February. I think the government has known this report before, and no one has reacted. Nobody! And on the board, it's just noding, and it's true, it's a crisis, it's a crisis, it's a crisis, something has to be done to make people feel that they don't feel like they're not going to show up like that. Look, as far as the ZUJF is concerned, we keep listening today. Previously we heard that we wanted to correct our mistakes because we wrote in the ZUJF until when a student could be, now it was wrong, now we are trying in another area where the SD party was the main party at the time – again it is not right. Then we listen to 2004-2008 you spent – it is not okay, then we listen after 2008 save constantly – again it is not okay. I'd say you're really very, very, very, very dissatisfied, and nothing can satisfy you then. I don't think we can say that the Social Protection Benefits Act is fair. Far from being righteous if he takes away those who do not have it, he leaves it essentially on hold, or the little one that they have, that property, they still burden it with what they have. I don't know how you can actually make such statements in the coalition. I think that we should be a little more critical of such matters, or that I also find that the coalition agreement is written, but it is just a text. Perhaps again, think about it, not just believing the government’s opinion or looking away, and then you might find out what kind of marriage it is that is truly righteous. There is certainly no such thing as Lighten's marriage. Once again, he took state pensions, put a security allowance on social benefits, and today these numbers show nicely in this report by the Social Protection Institute and I think on four or five pages you have written in your text why this legislation is not good. If the Government had been susceptible to such analyses, if it did not already believe us, then it might have believed such institutions, because in the end it also required such research, then it could have reacted slightly differently to these reports. I call on all Members to support the first reading, given that even coalition Members want to do something to change the threshold of poverty, that there will be no more people living below the threshold of poverty, that you support this law in the first reading and not that we are pronouncing populist words when you promise something to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Martina Vuk has the floor as Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, we listen, why don't you focus on how to create. Pasivisation is not the answer, the solution is in activating people, creating jobs, and you will do the most for social and so on. And then in the same breath we hear, why not support where more is given, where better is given, where why not support it, how can you oppose it, how can you be so inhuman, and how can you not worry about poverty in this country? [[…]] It is precisely because it is our duty to look at this large picture; that is why we react as we do. Because we can't go from bits to bits. Because we can't take a flat-rate view of things. Because then things don't work out. Because then things don't work. That is why we react in this way and have the attitude we have. And it's not true that we just nod when we look at the analysis, and we say, yes, that's terrible. I can go again — what I have said on the committee many times and probably at a meeting of the National Assembly — how we see three pillars, how to help people, how to empower people, if you want, because it is much better for the future. One is social transfers, the other is quality and equally accessible public services and the third is activation. These are three things that must work as a whole, so that we can go somewhere further, that we can talk about combating poverty, and that we can also count on winning. When we talk about the level of risk of poverty where data were presented last year, we do not yet have new data, but it should still be so fair to say that these data on the 14.5% risk of poverty are based on income from 2012. 2012 revenues! These revenues are based on data on the level of poverty risk presented last year. This year, when the poverty risk rate, always calculated by the Statistical Office, will be presented in the middle of the year, it will be based on the 2013 income, when we know that the highest unemployment rate was, we know, the number of the poor was increasing and so on. You just have to look at things real. Far from saying that the painting is ideal today, it is a little better. A little better. When we talk about this package of social legislation, what was the purpose, how this social legislation did not happen to achieve that purpose. Today, it has been repeatedly cited that it was also presented and recorded that the objective of social legislation is a more transparent and socially equitable system. Now I'm asking all of us if each one of us has the answers, if we can remember when everyone in a row was pointing their finger and talking to her, and he's got two houses and a pool, and I don't know what, and he's showing a minimum wage and getting all the ratings he's got going. Do we remember that? Therefore, the identification of the entire property was established. Because it has been found that it is not fair for those who have much more in the property to have the same income, but for those who have nothing in the property to have the same rights. It's not right, it's not fair, it's not fair, it's not fair to people. That's what this is about! We have forgotten this and we forget this when we explain this system of social legislation what it has brought here. I agree, however, but I absolutely agree that it is not right that the only threshold for the exercise of social rights is such a threshold. That only the exercise of social rights is seen as a comprehensive wealth, income, income picture of an individual and an entire family. I agree with that. That's true. With regard to the issue of the protective allowance, monetary social assistance, we probably all agree with the protective allowance that the main problem is that, according to our data, some 17,000 people have cancelled this supplement, so this supplement did not claim to be the main problem; not that we would reject them, not that they were not justified, but simply did not exercise the right to a protective allowance. And you know, when we talk to people, mostly the elderly, people think, and they think based on what they hear, every day they keep repeating that it's a loan. They take away what's yours, what you've been building your whole life, you're gonna have to get out of your house. Of course they say, I do not give, I rather live by bread, but water, as if they took away from me what is mine, but forgive me, no one, no one goes out of his property in which he lives. Nobody! And no man returns anything for the time of his life from his inheritance, that is, that which he forsaketh his offspring shall then be repaid. And that, and minus twelve months for the DSP, minus one third, minus two thirds, and so on, which were corrected. When a person dies, when he no longer needs this help, and when he no longer needs this property. You know, you don't tell people that a lot of times because it's easier to say, yeah, they're gonna take everything you have because this country is such a city that it doesn't want to worry about you because they've done it now. They've done so badly, only to the weak. Because you know, the one who doesn't have real estate is right to be exactly the same as the one who owns this property, who may even have more. It's not right! That's what this is about. No one takes anything during life. He's not returning anything, he's not paying anything. It is justified, if it fulfils the conditions, to receive a protective allowance and equal to receiving financial social assistance. You can't take anything. His heirs, children or anyone else is entitled to an inheritance if he does not have children, does not have a spouse, etc., and they can give up their inheritance, but they can inherit that property in a reduced share. That's what this is about. Nobody takes anything from their heirs, either. No one takes anything from the prodigal, just a little less. I agree that in Slovenia we are slightly different from most of the world, that real estate means to us the security that real estate means to us a life project in which it invests, or, if you will excuse me, this has been the case for older generations. My generation does not invest in real estate, because we do not have these properties anymore or less, but those who do have them are responsible for it until they are almost entitled to the pension – if ever. That is true tradition in this country, but when you need help, what do you do? Are you saying I'm just gonna be in this house because this is my house because my whole family lived there? All right, it's okay, you can be in this house – and you still have the right to a protective allowance, but only after death will one share of this inheritance go to pay. After death. One share. But you can say for a while now that I'm older, I can't have such a big house, two floors, I'd rather sell this house, and I'll go into some small unit to live. It's hard because we're used to our environment, that's understandable. Therefore, it is not expected that existing generations will do so, but gradually later generations will do so, and they will feel that this is self-evident, normal, because that is how things work. Once again: I think it is still necessary to say this, because so many times we get questions about how you can take me. Any person entitled to a protective allowance may live in his property regardless of size, regardless of the value of his or her property, this shall not be included anywhere. But when this person dies when he's gone, then this payment is made, and that's for a reduced share, etc., just like the law stipulates. By the way, Mr Tank is not, but Mrs Minister has been here much longer than anyone else at this meeting, and unfortunately for other obligations she had to go without avoiding this debate, which you have probably heard that she has been actively involved in the debate. As far as the coalition agreement is concerned, it is true that in recent times governments are changing slightly, but as a rule, mandates last four years and coalition agreements are concluded for four years. This is a period that is somehow assessed for when you can achieve some results, when you can think about changes, when you can defend those changes. Sadly, though, today we are accustomed to looking for solutions from today to tomorrow to look for solutions based on the headlines of newspaper articles and contributions to such and other striking television shows. And unfortunately, in the long run, it's not sustainable, it's not right, it's not good, and – and now I'm going to use this infamous word relationship – from a systemic point of view, it's not working. So you wanted to admit it or not: it doesn't work! Any person who does not have feels terrible seems to be in a desperate position, whether the risk of poverty is 14.5%, 1.5%, 0.1% or this poor person alone. Feels just as awful, feels the same way abandoned. Nevertheless, we need to look for solutions that will be comprehensive and that will benefit as many people as possible and that we will be able to implement. Today – well, I will not say anything on this subject either, so, what I wanted to say, has been raised many times in the opinion of the Government, in the opinion of the coalition Members and Members: yes, we agree, the whole coalition, the Government, our ministry agree that some corrections are necessary because time shows them because they are shown by the situation in which they are being implemented, because they are also shown by practices that are not always the same as they should be. [[…]] Therefore, this commitment to exempt property of minor value was also exempted from this posthumous payment. So when someone who receives a security allowance, they don't need it anymore, because unfortunately he's gone between us. I don't know how to put it even more plasticly, that it will be clear that no one pays anything for the time of life, because it's wrong to pay. But that's why we can't say it's a loan. It's not about the loan. It's a death pay and it's a partial payment. As to the fact that the number of recipients of monetary social assistance is steadily increasing and that these are horrifying data or I don't know what kind of words we've heard, there is now a bit of a difference here. On the one hand, we are listening to how this legislation has pushed those people who need the most help and money away from it, how it has deprived them of the opportunity to get it, and on the other hand, we are wondering how it can be done when you say that everything is going better, but that the number of recipients of financial social assistance is increasing. If you remember, at 1. 1. 2014 and with 1. 9. Amendments to social legislation have been introduced in 2014. The number of recipients of financial social assistance has also increased as a result of these corrections. Is this wrong if we find that these criteria are those that are more just, that make life at least partially easier — or is it wrong if more people then receive these social transfers? But I mentioned at the outset, but there are three pillars: transfers, quality, accessible and efficient public services and activation. If it's not synchronic, it doesn't help if we increase the transfer like that, we don't activate people, we don't activate people, we don't activate people, we don't activate them all, we don't activate them. All three pillars must work and this is our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u148	Mr President! First of all, what I've just been listening to, and I'm really going to throw up, I have to tell you. Ma'am says we're looking wide. But I'm asking her what about the privileges and privileges in this society. Answer that question! Then, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that poverty in Slovenia is increasing. 2012 was 418 thousand recipients of social assistance and 2014 was 572 thousand. 150 thousand more! 150 thousand more recipients! The fact is that Svetlik's law does not save poverty, which we are also talking about today, but deepens it and is, in our opinion, anti-social and anti-solidarity. That is why we have tabled a law and a change of law in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we are assessing that this issue needs to be solved in such a way as to be acceptable to those living in poverty. And you are the name of those who live in poverty, I pray you: support this law at first reading today. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. You've got your word, all of the interviewers, but we've got some time left. After Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you whether anyone else wants to discuss it. Okay, then please sign in. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, would you be the last one to propose? Good. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for that word again. Colleagues and colleagues! We will slowly exhaust this very important debate. Of course, some of them called me in the middle, saying the following. But if you insist so much on trying so hard, convince your colleagues from different parties to support this law in this first reading. Dear Secretary, you'll understand me better. You said we were pushing this marriage from tomorrow to tomorrow. Now I'm saying you'll understand me better, I'll tell you the case of yesterday's session. We were talking about agriculture. This year, we've been running low on milk quotas for years. We extend for applications for subsidies, concessions for forest law fall. Five things we've been missing for years in agriculture. Of course, when we warn, someone will tell us again that we're getting ahead of ourselves. Dear colleague, we are reminding you of the problems our citizens and citizens face throughout the afternoon. And let's find a common language here! I'm going to mention Mrs. Groschel again. The only one who works 24 years in this area. She was knocked on her door every morning for 24 years. To be honest, today I would tell you about the problems that plague people, and she didn't want to. She said it wasn't nice. You're saying we're doing this today with tomorrow. I can't agree with that. Once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, I urge you to support this law in the first reading, of course at tomorrow's vote, and then let the table be the one that will make some adjustments. Let this table be the one that we will sit together and fix these things and accept them so that people will – once again, when they arrive at the intersection, the intersection has four roads and on all roads they have a sign of a blind street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President! I really didn't have any intention of calling back today, but I couldn't say everything in those few seconds I had at my disposal. The debate held here today by the Secretary of State, I tell you, it is an insult to me. To me, this was an insult, an insatiable insult, an unacceptable insult, and above all the insults of all those people living on 250 or 300 euros a month. I ask the Secretary of State publicly to tell me if she has ever tried to survive from month to month with 300 euros. Only then will she be able to explain and think as bureaucraticly as she was doing here today in the National Assembly. Mr President, I sincerely apologize in advance. I don't mean to be insulting, but it hurt me personally. As a result of living in an environment where people come to me every day, they say, "Marian Pojbič, we voted for you, no matter which party you're in." We think you're responsible for the situation in this area. Please do something in this national council! Don't argue, don't fight, don't push yourself. If it's a good suggestion, step together, support him and take this path forward, because that's the only thing that will solve the problem we're facing. And obviously we don't want to understand that at all. After such performances as the State Secretary in the Assembly today, there is really no reason for me to think differently. Because such people do not have the opportunity to feel what it means to be socially threatened, what it means to be socially affected, what it means to have 230 euros in pensions, what it means to take a step from 230 euros a month. And when we talked about why this law was tabled, 78% of those who obtained a protective allowance gave up. It was not those who had villas that had mansions and so on who gave up their whole lives, not to give up savings just as they could at the bank, they couldn't because they didn't have the conditions to survive, like I did when they had to build their own house from nothing, from scratch, and thus ensure their survival and can't have the money on the bank. There's a huge difference between these people. Madam Secretary of State, I would expect from you that when you talk about these categories and these problems, you also understand them. Not to think of it, purely bureaucratic and harmful. Please don't let this happen again in this national council, at least I won't listen to things like this anymore, at least not in this way. And I strongly oppose, on behalf of all the Slovenian people and all those poor people in this country who work for those who sit in this Parliament, that no one in this national assembly will allow this, because this is a grossly corrupt, distasteful act. And no one in this national assembly can afford to discuss the people who work for us in this way. I apologize for raising my voice. I tried not to. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us sitting in the National Assembly know exactly that the problems we are talking about today will never be solved only by providing social assistance, by raising social assistance, by sharing these things in one way or another from the pocket we have. No, no, no. I expect from this government and from this coalition the key changes in the economic field and the key changes where needed to have new jobs. That people would have money from their salary to pay their bills. This must be the key story of us sitting here, not how we pay them bills and so on! Ladies and gentlemen, please let us understand this once! Let's just walk this way, walk together, and stop fooling around. Vulnerable groups in Slovenia are larger every day. Admitting that to ourselves will make it easier for us to start solving problems properly. And I'm asking you on behalf of these people, the government has plenty of maneuverable space, enough time to change this law, so it will be acceptable as I said, for coalition, opposition, for those poor people and for the government. Let us do this, with God holy, for our people, for this is from us. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, a few minutes. Here you go. The government's representative applies by raising his hand. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, that's true. Excuse me, Madam Secretary, we should have done this sooner. I should have warned you. Okay, I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, 24 April 2015, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 12. AND 13. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law supplementing the Notariat Act and a proposal for a law supplementing the law on legal representation. In accordance with the agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 10 April, we will hold a joint debate on these items of the agenda for the opening presentation, presentation of the positions of the groups of Members. Both draft laws were tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to these bills, the group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft laws, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Suzanne Lep Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have submitted to the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a law supplementing the Notariat Act and a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Lawyery. We have decided on the proposed amendment of the laws because we believe that this area is not sufficiently transparent and that there is no need to distinguish between the commitment to publish public data from the annual reports of lawyers and notaries, compared to the independent entrepreneur. For we see no reason why the annual reports of lawyers and notaries would not be public and thus their transparency of business would be clearer. In 2011, the tax administration began to exercise an in-depth control over the business of lawyers, notaries and legal advisers. In-depth supervision was the result of irregularities identified in tax inspection procedures, tax administration applications received and analysis of tax accounts in legal activities involving lawyers, notaries and tax advisers. In this area, it is likely that everything is not all right, but already shows that 27% of lawyers were classified in the lowest income class in 2011; an income class which, for example, represents a net monthly tax base of EUR 668 in 2015. The financial management completed project supervision in legal activities at the end of 2013 and should focus from there on finding the differences between assets, consumption and declared income. Among other things, tax inspectors have found that lawyers often do not report their income to the Financial Administration or do not pay value added tax after the payment they received to the State. There is also often news in the media that legal activity is one of the activities in which the most grey economy is taking place and greater transparency could indirectly help to improve this. The annual report is one of the most important documents for a number of companies, a mirror for a company or an entrepreneur showing how it operates. On the other hand, the annual report helps the public and stakeholders to understand their business, thus strengthening their trust. By a transparent presentation of the business, which is in line with the principles of good governance, the annual report gives a real and fair picture of both the asset situation and the outcome of the business. The main solution to both laws is thus to provide notaries and lawyers with the obligation to draw up an annual report in accordance with the Company Act and the Slovenian accounting standards and, in particular, the public publication of those data. Since lawyers who carry out their business as a self-employed profession are already required to keep their business books in accordance with the Income Act, they would not impose any additional work on them, it would be more than simply that the data should also be provided to the Apple for public publication. Let me point out that all companies, capital, personal, cooperatives, branches of foreign companies, economic interest associations and all others that keep business books in accordance with the rules applicable to companies, then cooperatives, independent entrepreneurs, standard-setting companies, legal persons of public law, non-profit organisations, legal persons of private law, political parties, trade unions and also societies are legally bound to publish the annual reports. On the other hand, the data contained in the annual publication reports and national statistics are not proposed by the standardised p. p. and by all business entities not established as legal persons and not having the status of p. p., i.e. all those who carry out their activities as self-employed professions, including lawyers and notaries. With the proposed amendment to the Notariat and Lawyers Act, we want to increase the transparency of the business of notaries and lawyers, increase the confidence of the public and stakeholders in the fair and legitimate conduct of notaries and lawyers, and indirectly reduce the scope of the grey economy in the field of their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The basic aim of the proposed laws is to increase transparency in the business of notaries and lawyers, to increase public confidence in their fair and legitimate business and to reduce the scope of the grey economy in their work. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, these objectives are legitimate, but the Government notes at the same time that solutions in the direction of greater transparency of the business of lawyers and notaries should be adopted systematically, including in the context of a broader debate in the enforcement of tax registers. Both MEPs foresee the management of business books and the preparation of annual reports by lawyers and notaries. In doing so, it is particularly important to note the legal status of the differences between the two judicial professions. Lawyers are not classical economic operators, which is based on the fact that the State regulates both the legal activity and their income. However, notariat is a public service, notaries, i.e. statutory status, not having the same status as independent entrepreneurs and cannot set up companies as lawyers or other entities performing activities or services on the market. With regard to the proposal to supplement the law governing lawyers, this is the case. The applicable legislation already imposes an obligation to maintain the accounts in accordance with the rules governing the income tax on individuals who fail to determine the tax base on their business income by taking into account the standardised expenditure. However, those lawyers who carry out their activities within the framework of an economic society are obliged to keep business books in accordance with the Company Act, so that they are already subject to the obligation to publish their annual reports. In our view, the current legal regime on taxation of the proceeds of the legal profession is therefore more appropriate and the legal provisions need to be implemented more consistently, thus contributing to a greater degree of confidence in the ethics and integrity of the legal profession in Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore considers that the proposed objectives cannot be pursued within the framework of a sectoral law, such as the Law on Lawyers, but within the framework of legislation that will systematically regulate the obligations of all professions not only lawyers, but also doctors, for example, when they perform this activity in this way, journalists or other cultural workers. The publication of the annual reports – and I would also like to emphasise this – has no impact on the legality of the business, since the supervisory institutions of the country always have an opportunity to look into the data. In addition to the proposal concerning notaries, to supplement the Notariat Act. Under the current regime, the revenue of notaries as persons of public confidence is public for the purposes of safeguarding the reputation of notariat as a public service and to ensure the confidence of the parties in the operation of the notariat. The Notary Chamber shall transmit annually information on the revenue of notaries to the public, which is already properly aware of the operation of notaries. Intangibles as debtors for income from their balance sheet activities, which are placed in accordance with Slovenian accounting standards, are sent to the Financial Administration for the calculation of income withdrawals from the activity and income from the activity I have repeated? [[…]] In addition to the above, notaries are obliged to keep chronological records and books at the end of the calendar year. The regulation of the operation of notaries is further regulated by the Rules on the operation of the notary, which also allows the maintenance of books in electronic form. So, as far as notaries are concerned, I would like to point out that, in our view, the regulation already in force is sufficiently transparent, legal and fair – thus ensuring that the regulation already in force provides for transparent, legal and fair functioning of notaries in which, in our view, there is no room for improvement. It also follows from the comparative legal presentation of arrangements in other legal systems that notaries perform notaries as a free profession and do not run businesses, have no management entitlements and are not committed to the preparation and publication of annual reports. So, if notary operations are already regulated in such a way that, in our view, there is no room for a grey economy, we can agree that there is room for improvement here, but the Government believes that this objective must be achieved systematically, as for all professions, also in the context of the debate on the introduction of tax registers. For the sake of all this, we therefore consider that the draft laws are not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group Joint Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u158	Mr. Vice President, hello to everyone! As suggested by the proponents, the additions to the Notariat Act and the Law on Lawyers are due to tighter tax supervision of lawyers, notaries and legal advisers from 2011. The project of lawyers, as called by the Tax Administration, consisted of 78 inspections carried out in 2012 and 41 in 2013. A total of EUR 600,000 of additional tax liabilities were identified in the control in 2012 and 480 000 in 2013. In view of the above findings, they propose that lawyers and notaries should also be required to prepare an annual report and to transmit it to Apes. The bill is intended to pursue three objectives: firstly, to increase transparency in the business of notaries and lawyers; secondly, to increase the confidence of the public and stakeholders in the fair and legitimate conduct of notaries and lawyers; and thirdly, to reduce the scope of the grey economy in their business. While we have no problems with the first objective, since we support every measure in the United Left to increase transparency, we have a few reservations with the second and third. Only companies are obliged to prepare the annual report in accordance with the Company Act. If we come from the applicant's point of view that the annual report gives us the confidence of the public and stakeholders in fair and legitimate business, this means that companies operate fairly and legally and those exempt from this provision are simply not. Let me remind you, all those companies and banks that have dug a huge hole with the consequences of all citizens and citizens today have been committed to the preparation of the annual report. Annual reporting is also subject to the obligation of all those companies that exploit workers, do not pay social security contributions, do not pay them wages or work in black. Similarly, the annual report is prepared by the companies that the same owners who prepare the reports have put in bankruptcy, have exhausted everything else in the bankruptcy process, and the workers and creditors have never been paid. The annual report was prepared by Vegrad, CGP, Primorje, Zvon 1 and Zvon 2 and all other companies found on the lists of bad banks, taxpayers and some owners already in prison. The provision that notaries and lawyers are also committed to the preparation of the reports, in our view, in this way this objective, as stated by the applicant, will unfortunately not and will not be able to achieve. Will the proposed novels reduce the scope of the grey economy? No, because the grey economy is a structural consequence of the ZUJF, which, under the pretext of the ideologies of necessary savings, banned public sector employment, abolished education and the possibility of progress in the public sector, i.e. for tax inspectors, and completely weakened the budgetary resources for tax authorities. The detection of irregularities in the business of companies, independent entrepreneurs and individual lawyers is in the domain of the Financial Administration, which is weaker financially and human resources from year to year. All the reasonable and harmful consequences that have been caused by at least the last three governments through their policies will not be eliminated by the amendment of only one article. However, the proposed novels will not solve any of these problems, because on the other hand they will contribute slightly to greater transparency and will not cause any harm, and we will not oppose them in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u160	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Today's proposals for amendments to both laws, the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Notariat regulate the substantive identical material, namely the mandatory management of business books in accordance with the Law on Companies, the composition of the annual report and the publication of this report on the websites of the Apples. The real purpose of the proposals for amendments to both laws is, as explained by the applicant, to increase the transparency of the financial operations of notaries, lawyers and lawyers, and in particular to reduce the scope of the grey economy in these areas. The last tightening of tax administrations over lawyers in 2012 showed a relatively large amount of tax evasion. The fact is that the operation of lawyers and notaries in most cases is cash and, as a result, the possibility of tax evasion is even greater. In addition, it concerns the operation of lawyers and also the operation of notaries for specific financial practice, as they receive mostly advances for their services, often without a certificate, and the bill or payment of services they provide upon completion of the case. Often, however, a lawyer does not issue an account or account, particularly if the client does not explicitly require it. In view of the fact that judicial proceedings are taking place for a very long time, even after several years, the control of the tax authority is also hampered. What measures can be taken to prevent the grey economy and increase transparency in the financial operations of notaries and lawyers? The best way, of course, is to improve tax culture, i.e. by raising public awareness that every service must be accounted for. Of course, it is a measure that brings results over the longer term. What, though, are the measures that could be taken immediately? One of the options that the State or the Financial Administration has already taken advantage of is the mandatory use of the bound account book for debtors who operate with cash and do not have registers and, of course, sufficient frequent and regular inspections. Here we would point out that the reviews should be carried out not only on the smaller debtors, but on the larger debtors, but also on the notaries in particular on lawyers and lawyers. In public, it seems that the rule of law only works for small people, while the more powerful, richer layer is untouchable. Above all, it is so important in the area of notariat and lawyering that these professions are not primarily intended to generate profits, as is the case with classical companies and as their position is often represented in the public eye. The possibilities used abroad and gradually introduced to us are also a large proportion of legal and natural persons' insurance for legal services, where insurance services are paid to lawyers. In these cases, the possibility of tax evasion is minimal or almost non-existent. Of course, this measure is also one of the long-term solutions, which I hope will also await its beginning on Slovenian soils. Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will support the amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers and the Notariat Act because we believe that solutions presented are one of the options for reducing the grey economy in notaries, lawyers and lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u162	Good afternoon. I'm sorry we're talking about two laws today, notaries and lawyers together. In fact, these two industries or these two professions have only one thing in common, which is that they are usually lawyers. The mission of one and the other is completely different. Still, we would like to commit to one another, which is modern, beautiful and fine today, to transparency, to the public, and in short, we would like to look again at where someone is doing business. I must say that, while we are committed to transparency in the Alliance, we are beginning to get a little nervous, so that, by the word of transparency, everything else is transparent, but transparency is not, in particular, sense, functionality, et cetera et cetera. It is already the fact that, at the same time, the applicant himself in the introduction notes that, in fact, more or less have been reported and can be reviewed and followed by their expenditure, and not least by their income, in order to prevent the grey economy. This is certainly not the reason, and we will not achieve anything with this. In fact, we would only reach the point where we would actually make a decision that would in fact be disproportionate again; and in this country we like to do so very much. Let's go into one profession, one activity, one area, and then we want to work something out there, and in fact forget that on the other hand comparable professions, work or areas, depending on what we are dealing with, we are not actually regulating, say, are not relatively equally regulated. They themselves find that these things are not exactly arranged in separate professions. So, I don't know why we'd do a little differently for one profession in the country now, for all the other professions, free professions, if I'm more specific – we're talking about doctors, we're talking about culturers, we're talking about everyone else who doesn't have to do that. And I don't know what they're different from the others if they want to avoid it. I would understand such a positive idea and thought if we passed all the relevant legislation of all the free professions and tried to arrange them everywhere. Only then would you have a problem, because then these free professions would present you with another side of the medal. Just because we're talking about notaries and lawyers today is supposed to solve the same thing in the same way, the problem is that notaries have a completely different status than everyone else, such as lawyers who work as independent entrepreneurs, is said to be completely different matter; that I'm not talking about companies or who can do such works. What matters to us is, above all, only one thing. This is that the Government, now this path I call on the Government to make an appropriate change of legislation through other parameters, and this is – and we are the advocates of the tax register – to really solve through these issues what is important to us, and this is a grey economy; and not only for lawyers and notaries, but for everyone and this is a key solution. That is why today we are taking this issue more as a kind of warning to, we might say, a kind of populism that some people very much like to use here. Personally, I would say that I would be very happy if the SDS Group came, say, with a concrete proposal – I am giving you an example, and use it, and I will support you – for example, that a lawyer cannot be a bankruptcy manager at the same time. You know, this is a problem for me; a much bigger problem than what you're proposing. Because if a lawyer is a bankruptcy manager, you know what it's like. Someone comes to him and says, "Oops, now you've come to the lawyer, not to the bankruptcy manager." And at the same time he said, "No, no, today I'm a bankruptcy manager, I'm not a lawyer." And you never know which room I'll ever get right on time. I mean, it's a big deal, and it's a big deal. But it is true that you will have problems because lawyers will fight at all times to prevent this change, as they did in the previous term. But good luck! In the discussion below, we will no longer be involved because this topic is closed for us, and I hope that the collective majority will communicate this appropriately at the end of the vote. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go. Excuse me. Mr Dušan Verbič, please, on behalf of the Modern Centre Party, a presentation of the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u164	Dear Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, a very nice greeting! The proposed additions to the Notariat Act and the Law on Lawyers provide for an arrangement whereby notaries, lawyers, law firms should keep business books, draw up an annual report and also publish it. As the proponents state, the reason or objective of the proposed complement is to increase the transparency of the operations of notaries, lawyers, lawyers, public confidence in the fair and legitimate conduct of notaries and lawyers and consequently to reduce the scope of the grey economy in the field of the business of these persons. The notary is not a statutory form of independent entrepreneurs or companies providing services on the market, but is a public service entrusted to it with public authority and is therefore a person who enjoys public confidence. It guarantees the credibility of its business, while entrusted work must be done conscientiously and honestly; otherwise, it is liable for compensation with all its assets. He also responds disciplinaryly or criminally. The Notary Chamber oversees business and the Notariat’s rule of law is supervised by the Ministry of Justice. The tax administration has access and review to their balance sheets and so far there has been no understanding of irregularities in the financial operations of notaries. According to the SMC, the existing legislation is sufficiently regulated as it provides that the revenue of notaries is public, which, in the interests of customer confidence and the protection of the reputation of the notary, must report annually to the public information on the revenue of notaries. The notaries are also obliged to keep the entries and to include them annually under the applicable legislation. The introduction of electronic records, however, represents an additional safeguard against the problem of non-invoicing. Last but not least, foreign arrangements, as in Austria, Germany, Finland and Finland do not provide for mandatory management of accounting, annual reports and publications. According to the SMC Group, we do not see any valid reasons for adopting the proposed amendment to the Notariat Act. The defence is a self-serving and independent service and is not subordinated to any state authority. They shall give legal advice, representation and counsel to the parties before the courts, state authorities, draw up documents, represent the parties in their legal relations and carry out their work as a free profession. They are committed to professional secrecy and must act conscientiously, honestly, carefully, in accordance with the principles of professional ethics when representing the parties. They are not a classical economic operator because their activity and income through legal tariffs are regulated by the State. The current legislation provides that those lawyers or legal companies established under the Company Act in the framework of their activities are obliged to keep business books, to draw up annual reports and to submit them to Apes for public publication. However, other lawyers are obliged to keep their business books in accordance with the rules governing income and are not obliged to publish their business reports publicly. The arrangements are appropriate from the point of view of income taxation. It is indeed necessary to implement these provisions more consistently in order to increase confidence in the ethics and integrity of the defence in the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the proposed changes in the field of lawyering, which are substantively the same as in the Notariat, in SMC, we believe that the proposed amendments will not meet the objectives pursued by the proposal itself. The mandatory publication of the annual reports of individual lawyers would not eliminate the grey economy, the failure to issue invoices, which also appear in other lawyers, of law firms that are committed to the public publication of reports, as well as in other professions on the market. Whether this information is publicly published or not, we have existing supervisory institutions that have an opportunity to look at the business data of these persons at any time. By the way, between 2011 and 2013, 125 tax inspections were carried out by lawyers, notaries, legal advisers and additionally EUR 1.1 million of tax liabilities. In the context of this project, it was also found that the records were inadequate and inadequately managed, which constitutes a risk of irregularities in the exercise of tax obligations. With a view to a comprehensive system of approach to addressing the problem of preventing the grey economy, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing a bill on the validation of accounts, which introduces a mandatory procedure for verifying accounts in cash transactions. This will allow for transparent and reliable recording of the cash traffic of taxpayers. The adoption of this law will bring about the desired greater transparency of business, not only in the legal profession, but also in other professions in the market. A comparative legal review of the three countries mentioned by the proposer in his proposal – Germany, Austria and Finland – also speaks against the adoption of the proposed regulation. In all these countries, the legal profession is considered a free profession or activity of a free profession whereby persons are not obliged to keep books and not to invest or publish annual reports. However, the proposer did not give sufficient compelling reasons for different arrangements to support the completion of legislative proposals by the SMC Group. In the light of all the above, we will not support proposals to supplement the Notariat Act and the Law on Lawyery in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Now, indeed, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you are, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u166	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In 2012, the then Durs, or today Furs, reported additional tax liabilities of EUR 436 000 875 to 30 lawyers. In January 2014, the media reported that inspectors in the business of a lawyer had spent more than €3 million in three years and reported only €80,000 to Dursu. This means that he has estranged more than 97% of his turnover. Durs or Furs had already announced in the beginning of 2011 an increased control of the regularity and timeliness of the payment of tax obligations in legal activities, with lawyers, notaries and legal advisers thinking. Furs then explained that the decision was due to irregularities identified in the procedures for tax inspection, applications received and analysis of tax accounts in legal activities for a certain period of time. The additional motive for the proposed legal amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party is also the results of an analysis of the legal tax scale or the conclusion that lawyers often do not report part of the income to, do not issue an invoice or do not pay value added tax to the State after receiving the payment. All of these are the reasons why Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have decided to propose the completion of the Notariat Act and the Law on Lawyery. We are convinced that they are needed in order to make the operations of notaries and lawyers more transparent. We also believe that the proposed additions increase the confidence of the public and stakeholders in the fair and legal functioning of notaries and lawyers and reduce the scope of the grey economy in the field of the business of notaries and lawyers. The main solution to both laws is to provide notaries and lawyers with a mandatory composition of the annual report and to make it public. The annual business report shall be the most important statement of each undertaking or entrepreneur. It actually represents his mirror. The annual report helps stakeholders and the public to understand business, thus strengthening their trust. By a transparent presentation of the business, which is in line with the principles of good governance, the annual report gives a real and fair picture of both the asset situation and the outcome of the business. Data from the annual public and state statistics reports are not proposed today by independent entrepreneurs who are taxed on the basis of the established profit by taking into account standard expenditure, as well as by business entities that are not constituted as legal persons and do not have the status of a sole entrepreneur, including notaries and lawyers. On this occasion, let me remind you that we have recently adopted amendments to the Judicial Register Act, which have received numerous concerns and criticisms. There was also talk of a violation of personal data and of the constitutional dispute of the proposal itself. At that time, the Minister of Justice said that when adopting amendments to the law, it was not arrogant for all those who were critical to the adopted law, but because the changes were intended to contribute to greater security and transparency of the business environment and greater consumer confidence. With the proposal to supplement both laws, we want to do just that in the area of notariat and lawyers in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We therefore expect you to support the proposed amendments as those that have adopted or supported amendments to the Judicial Register Act. The proposed amendments bring greater transparency to the business of notaries and lawyers, greater confidence in the public and stakeholders in fair and legitimate business, and reduce the scope of the grey economy in the field of the business of notaries and lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Tina Brecelj with co-worker, honourable Member and Members! The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia on the proposed amendment to the Notariat Act and the proposed amendment to the Law on Lawyery is as follows. As we have already heard, both proposals foresee the introduction of the management of business books for lawyers and notaries, as well as the introduction of mandatory annual reports and their public publication through Apes. This should increase transparency in the business of lawyers, lawyers and notaries, as well as public confidence in their fair and legitimate conduct. The addition of both laws should also lead to a reduction in the scope of the grey economy. We support these objectives in the Member States' Common Desus, because we also want the business of lawyers and notaries to be transparent and to reduce the scope of the grey economy. However, first of all, I should like to draw attention to the regulation of the area of notariat. Article 2 of the Notariat Act provides that the revenue of notaries as persons of public confidence is public for the purposes of safeguarding the reputation of notariat as a public service and for ensuring the confidence of the parties. The law also provides that the Notary Chamber of Slovenia shall provide this information, which it receives from notaries, free of charge to the public. So the public is already aware of this information. In addition, notaries are obliged to keep records and books chronologically at the end of the calendar year. Therefore, in the Member State of Common Desus, we believe that the current regime provides transparent work for notaries and that the amendments proposed in the amendment to the law are not necessary. The position of lawyers is slightly different. Lawyers are not classical economic operators, which is based on the fact that the State regulates both the legal activity and its arrivals, and the law in force also obliges them to respect the principle of confidentiality and this confidentiality could be compromised by the publication of a business report. The legislation already in force imposes an obligation on individuals who fail to determine the tax base of their business income by taking into account standardised expenditure, to keep their business books in accordance with the rules governing income. However, those lawyers who carry out their activities within the framework of an economic society are obliged to keep their business books in accordance with the Company Act and are already subject to the obligation to publish years of reports. The adoption of the proposed law would result in unequal treatment of so-called free professions, since the same regime applies to the non-publishment of annual reports also for persons performing medical activities, pharmacy activities, journalism and other cultural activities. We see no reason why this area would be regulated in part and the annual reports of individual lawyers would be public, but for others this would not be the case. We are therefore committed to preparing comprehensive changes that will ensure greater transparency at systemic level in the business of both lawyers and other similar categories of professions. Finally, let me mention that both proposals included a presentation of the regime in Germany, Austria and Finland for comparison. From this review, it can be found that none of these countries requires accounting management and therefore does not issue annual financial reports to lawyers and notaries. The annexation of the regulation review in other countries is intended to familiarise ourselves with good practices in other, comparable countries and thus to try to regulate these areas in our system in a similar way. In this particular case, however, this is not the case. We do not understand the purpose of the comparative review in these two proposals. On the basis of this review, we cannot conclude why this area should be regulated differently from in these countries. In the Desus Group, we believe that both proposals are incomplete and do not bring about an improvement in the current situation in the field of the business of lawyers, lawyers and notaries. For all the reasons mentioned in the Desus Group, we will not support further consideration of these two bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! Both proposed laws, complementary to the Notariat and Lawyers Act, pursue the same objectives: to increase transparency of business and confidence in fair and legitimate business and to reduce the scope of the grey economy in the business of notaries, lawyers and lawyers. According to the applicants of these two laws, those objectives would only be achieved by keeping notaries and lawyers in business books and closing them once a year in accordance with the Act on Economic Companies and Slovenian Accounting or International Accounting Standards. As far as the companies are concerned, the applicants refer to Article 36 of the Law on Lawyers, which states that companies are subject to the rules on companies. A comparative review of the regulation of this issue in other legal systems shows that in those countries — Finland, Germany, Austria — there is no obligation for notaries and lawyers to manage the bookkeeping and thus no obligation to submit annual reports. True, these services or activities are also arranged differently. Both notary laws state that notaries are state officials in Finland and not only provide notary services, that there are several types of notaries in Germany and that notaries perform public service in Austria, they are not public servants, but they carry out a free profession. The comparison is also made with regard to lawyers and lawyers or their organisation under the laws in force in those countries. Let us hope that the proponents have made the right comparisons. This part of the presentation of the position of the Social Democrats Group may also touch on the indications in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of both proposals. However, these relate to the functioning of the Financial Administration. In recent years, the Financial Administration has carried out in-depth supervision of the operations of individual lawyers and lawyers, as well as notaries and legal advisers. On Furs' website, we looked at the report on the final project, the Lawyers Project, in which they represent the basic purpose of the project in the introduction. This goes back to 2011; therefore, it is the supervision of lawyers, notaries and legal advisers. The activity took place from October 2011 until the end of 2013. The chart shows the number of checks carried out, in 2012 78 and in 2013 41. These controls, however, identified additional tax liabilities of EUR 0,36 million and EUR 0,48 million. However, the following document provides an opportunity to read the irregularities identified, as well as to see an increase in the voluntary fulfilment of tax obligations on the basis of the projected tighter controls. Regardless of the results achieved, Furs believes they are good. It was estimated, however, that this type of inspection of such activities through audit control methods was not the most optimal. Since 2014, the monitoring of legal activities as well as other such activities has focused mainly on the identification of the gap between assets, including consumption and forecast revenues – the Property Registration Project. On the website, we can also look at the progress of targeted tax controls. On the basis of the results and findings of all these projects carried out, we would like to see appropriate solutions, and let this be in the form of a new comprehensive marriage solution. Even more so, we would be pleased to see a system of control or practice on the basis of these controls being established that will create a grey economy. It has been found that the tighter controls already announced have positive effects, and we wonder whether the legislation is really that bad. Perhaps the problem is respect for and implementation of legislation. However, if I return to the lawyer and to the applicable legislation governing this activity. Lawyers are obliged to keep business books in accordance with the rules governing income. This is the case where the tax base for the business income tax is not determined by taking into account the standardised expenditure. However, if lawyers carry out legal activities within the framework of an economic society, they are obliged to keep business books in accordance with the Company Act, which means that they are mandatory until the annual reports are published. There is also respect for the laws, the implementation of these laws and the ethics of individuals. Therefore, it may be appropriate to call on the Bar to do more in the field of the proper operation of lawyers and lawyers or to consider sanctioning those who do not act in accordance with the laws and other acts governing financial operations. The government considers that the proposal for a law relating to notaries is unnecessary and systematically inadequate. However, when regulating a lawyer, he considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The Social Democrats conclude that the proposed laws are suitable for further consideration, and we will not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl. Mr. Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u172	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. I'm going to focus a little bit on the Notariat Act or the novel proposal. I think this proposal is very unconvincing. It is trying to legislate an obligation to issue an annual report, which is actually being submitted, as notaries also need to draw up an annual report, which is not publicly published. But this is not only publicly published for notaries, but also for other professions, for cultural workers, athletes, health workers, journalists, some other business entities, and I see no reason for them to make any difference. More importantly, the annual report does not reveal whether it was tax evasion. This information is not included in the annual reports, so it is also completely pointless in this respect. The applicant also presented a comparison of how it is in other countries in the explanation of its proposal. In doing so, he referred to Finland, Germany, Austria and found that there was no need for public publication of the annual report in those countries; even more, it does not need to be drafted. Look, this is Finland, as far as I know, the proponent of many oaths to the judiciary in Finland, Germany, Austria, which are developed democracies, and they do not have such regulations on the operation of notaries as the proposer proposes that we now legislate them. Thus I do not see that this would be any solution, although of course it is also necessary to fight against the grey economy. One of the measures of this government that awaits us in the near future is the introduction of tax boxes, but it is not the solution to this, of course, for the public publication of the annual reports. The bill mentions the principle of transparency; I do not know what this principle is now transparently, transparently. [[…]] This may be explained to me by the proposer, because the principle of transparency has its own explanation and its content in the law where it is located. In this law, in the Notariat Act, there is no such principle. We have this principle in the SDH Act, it says what is the principle we have in this law, the principle of transparency in the energy law, we have it in accounting standards, and there is no principle in the Notariat Act. Thus, the applicant makes a completely unfounded reference to a principle that does not actually exist. I'd say it's more of a principle of curiosity than I've already said, I don't know what we can figure out from income data. For what trust of customers? Is the notary who has 50,000 traffic worth less trust than the one who has a million traffic? Is that the reason? I don't know. That's for the motioner to explain. However, as I have said, regardless of this, I think that this bill is unfounded, that it does not pursue its objectives, does not have any analysis of how this grey economy is supposed to occur. Well, if you had information, it comes this way, you'd tell me it's okay, and then we'll try to solve it this way. Maybe, even though I don't see it, I still don't see what it would be like to publish the annual report. There's no analysis, but there's a flat rate over the thumb: tax evasion. This is certainly not enough for some of these changes, as I have already said, I expect most in relation to this, if any, it will also be proven by the introduction of tax boxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs Eva Irgle to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel. Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, Secretary of State! Yesterday we talked about transparency or transparency in banking, and the Banks Act was introduced into the National Assembly by the Slovenian Democratic Party and today we are talking about transparency or transparency in the business of notaries, lawyers and lawyers. But there's something interesting. Yesterday's law, where we talked about transparency of banking, is that banks such as Banka Slovenije as the central bank would give the information that is necessary to identify those who are most responsible for the bank hole, for a multibillion-dollar bank hole, which, of course, we have on our shoulders today, all taxpayers, you have said in awe that you will not support this transparency. If I am not mistaken, at least it was clear from the views of the members of the groups, as well as from Mr Zorčič, that these transparencys, which are linked to the business of lawyers, to the business of lawyers and notaries, will not be supported. From this we can conclude that, in particular, there is a great deal of transparency in the words of the Modern Transparency Centre Party. In this way it has also come into power, transparency has been crucial, while actions are completely different. Tomorrow, when we vote on these laws, you will vote against transparency without any argument. The main solution of both laws, which has been said several times today about positions, is that notaries, including lawyers and lawyers, should report each year, which should be public, so that people can see what transparency — not least in terms of business, payment, and so on. – is also with lawyers and notaries. Why is that important? Especially for trust. In the National Assembly, we have for a very long time been warned, in particular by the Slovenian Democratic Party, that we have great problems when we talk about confidence in the justice system. Big problems! I will not go into the details of what is happening in the field of justice and what should have happened, nor will those who are in the highest positions accept responsibility when they act corruptly. In short, all of this shows that we still have to deal with the issue of transparency in all areas. Why is that important? At the time of the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, the colleague said that the inspectors had found that he had spent more than three million euros over three years in the operations of a lawyer and then reported only 80,000 traffic to Dursu. This is not a transparent business and this means that this lawyer or lawyer company has hidden more than 97% of the traffic. But it's probably not a lonely case. It must have happened somewhere else. I have already said that some measures are needed to increase public confidence in the functioning of the justice system, including in the functioning of notaries, lawyers and lawyers. Of course, it's not like we can't say that all prosecutors are bad, or all the judges are bad because they're not. There are many who do their work well, but the problem is that some individuals, especially if they come from the highest positions, shed a bad light on others who are doing their job well. especially because they do not accept responsibility when they have been proven to be corrupt. The Administrative Court has said its own, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has said its own, the supervision introduced by the Justice Ministry in the previous term has said that it was a suspicion of corruption, of suspicion of illegal conduct, but Dr. Zvonko Fischer is still in the position of Attorney General. And so on Monday, I asked the Minister of Justice what he would do to ensure that the Attorney General was no longer in his position, and Mr Minister replied that he had done everything in his power. It's not! With the authority of the Minister, of course, the Minister could request that Dr Fisher withdraw from his post. He doesn't do that. Why? We know, no, that's just a little bit of Pilate. Everything is intertwined, from the collapse of the previous government and so on. Because I can see that she's sneaking around here after this meeting room, Madam Vice President, that this isn't today's theme — what a topic today is! All of this is a matter of transparency and transparency. All of it! I understand, however, that usually when we talk about transparency and transparency, the coalition does not have sufficient arguments. Why should we go into such a change of law? This is because, according to a report by the European Commission, Slovenia has placed itself in the 24th place on the issue of trust in justice. That's how the fifth worst is confidence in the judiciary. And such cases as I mentioned earlier, when a situation other than those of others appears, are further exacerbated by the lack of confidence in justice. And justice certainly needs some real reform in its entirety; not the one brought to the National Assembly by Minister Goran Klemenčič in five packages. These were just cosmetic repairs. Once again, I ask you to support this law and, of course, there will be any further opportunity for us to collectively amend the legislation that will go in the direction that justice will fully act in a more transparent and accountable manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor as her proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. First, I'm going to take a little look at the government's opinion on this law. First, I'm going to the Law on Lawyers. [[..]] This is what the representative said at the outset that lawyers are not classical economic operators and that the State regulates both the legal activity and its income. I agree that they are not classical economic operators, but, however, the income of a lawyer is not dependent on the state. The State shall limit only the tariff. In a way, this price, but the income itself, we can't say that it's regulated by the state. Then it goes on to say that lawyers are particularly committed to respect the principle of confidentiality or professional secrecy. I find it difficult to understand how a lawyer's annual report would have been made public, thereby violating confidentiality. What is the point in this report that we could talk about violating confidentiality? This is financial data, revenue, expenditure. What is involved in this account that this would be violated or threatened? Then we'll go on. In order for the annual report to be drawn up clearly, transparently, it must demonstrate the true and fair presentation of the assets, the obligations of the company, its financial position and the business outcome. This is indicated for lawyers operating within an economic society. Great! But I find it difficult to understand why this would not apply here to lawyers operating in a self-employed profession. Why would we have a difference here in this area? You will, of course, say, due to the unequal treatment of others, which you also refer to below, or disproportionateity, as he has already highlighted these so-called free professions today. I agree, as it might be useful to consider equal treatment for all professions and perhaps it is also reasonable to think about it. Then it says here in your report that the publication of the annual reports would in no way affect the legality of business. It does not affect the legality of business, but it does affect transparency. We are not talking about having an impact on legality, on transparency of business. I am pleased that the Government somehow understands the issue of issuing lawyers' accounts and that it assesses that this is not insignificant. And of course, they will be more comprehensive – that the problem needs to be solved at systemic level. The fact that something needs to be resolved at a systemic level is, in fact, we listen on almost every proposal, on every law, whatever we make as a proposal, you are always looking for some systemic solutions. Okay, I agree, but I would like to ask if there is any time frame for this systemic solution. But here we are talking about a systemic solution for all professions, if I'm not mistaken. We already know about the tax registers, you see, as far as the grey economy is concerned, the only solution with the introduction of the tax registers. But you all know that the biggest problem with lawyers is that they do business with cash and don't issue bills. I am so afraid that the tax office itself will not help much in this regard. I agree that public publication of the annual report is not enough. There is only a small piece in the mosaic of perhaps getting a little more transparency and also indirectly then, of course, reducing the grey economy. If I go to the Notariat Act. Of course, notariat is otherwise organized – as a public service. It says that the revenue of notaries is public for the purposes of safeguarding the reputation of a notariat as a public service. Here. The revenue of the notaries is public. There are public revenues, there is a public name, there is a public name, and there is a public seat, where it essentially has a notary written. I don't understand why the entire annual report could not be public. They're actually doing it, because we're not doing any extra work for them. This is about not being public only income, but also public expenditure and then result. I don't see the problem with why there's actually a problem. And adequate information on the financial situation provided. I do not think it is guaranteed, only income information is provided, but information on the financial situation of notaries is not provided. In fact, the Notary Chamber writes that notar as a natural person guarantees all its assets. This is true, but also the individual’s independent entrepreneur guarantees his or her assets, and he or she also has to publish public annual reports. Perhaps just two more things, namely, the president of the SD party said in January 2014 – when the debate began on these tax boxes – that when the government wants to show the public that there are no inviolable groups. Among other things, he cites lawyers, so he advocates that there are no untouchable groups, and thus we, however, still have one group of untouchable ones. But also this group is doing a profitable activity, you can't say that it doesn't. When we adopted the Business Register Act, there was also a lot of talk about transparency. At the time, the Minister of Justice said that providing sufficient information on the business of a business entity was important. Furthermore, greater compliance with the legal rules between individuals and business operators, strengthening the transparency of the integrity of the business environment. See, as this also applies to lawyers and notaries, it does not apply only to espouses and other companies. I believe it's important to them, too. As far as the transparency of the assessment is concerned, I think that the transparency of business is significantly greater if we have on the one hand information on income and on the other hand information on income. Only public information on revenues is too little to be able to talk about business transparency. Maybe that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jasna Murgel has the floor. Get ready, ma'am. Lilliana Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues, as many of us are still here! I am against the two proposed amendments to the Notariat Act and the Law on Lawyery. Today much has already been said by the coalition and by representatives of the Ministry that the regulation is already appropriate, that is, that the Notariat Act provides that the revenue of notaries as persons of public confidence is public and that the public is already aware of the revenue and business of notaries, since the Notary Chamber is required to provide this information on these revenues annually to the public. Similarly, lawyers who operate as economic companies and espouses are obliged to report annually, these are independent entrepreneurs, in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act. We also said that if only lawyers, like those who are representatives of the free professions, would be required to report on their income annually, they would be treated in the same way as other representatives of the free professions. So this arrangement is something that is unnecessary right now. I too could write this bill in half an hour or so, and I put it into procedure, and I think how I have now contributed to some debate here and to finding solutions that are not really solutions and we cannot accept them. Because not that they're not appropriate, but they don't need at all. I would like to add something; if we're talking about transparency and Pilate's solutions, and the hand washes my hand, I don't know what you know, what I care about dealing with lawyers? [[…]] I am concerned about what is also happening in the media and what I have come across on my own information, and what would be evident from the business of law firms if I had a little look – what kind of legal services, how much are they getting from certain law firms that are state-owned? For example, the Court of Auditors, as reported by the media — for example, the Journal of April 16, 2015 — called on Dars’ supervisor to report on the payment made to Matoz. I would also like to know why very large amounts are being paid to, say, banks to law firms, like Nova KBM, who paid lawyers, various law firms, very high amounts, although it has a very highly qualified legal service and so on. These are the real issues of transparency, especially with regard to companies owned by the State, and therefore the fact that these companies are not being exhausted and the service and payment are not being given to those who are ours. In my view, these proposed changes are not necessary and will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, let's get Mrs. Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Today, on these issues that we are discussing, it seems to me that these services, both notaries and lawyers, are, in fact, such a nature that it is almost inappropriate to discuss the issue of their greater trust in honesty and the legality of work, especially in notaries, because they are services representing public persons. In fact, these inspections have indeed established irregularities among lawyers, but these irregularities, when we look at them inside, do not indicate that there is a need to re-regulation of legislation, but, above all, point to the fact that lawyers in existing legislation, and even though they are the builders of the rule of law, have not respected and that there is also insufficient adequate supervision. Indeed, the proposer is pursuing a legitimate objective, not to challenge it, but it is that we are not actually going to achieve the right effect we want. Why? For the nature of these irregularities, which have been identified by the inspection, is as I have already said that it shows and requires greater control, not changes in legislation. The largest is shown mainly in cash transactions. But we're not just looking at notaries and lawyers, we're tracking him everywhere. This is, of course, found, around 3.8% of the GDP in this area, which is not small. However, we need to know that much of this is not actually revealed. And all those who deal in cash are extremely innovative in our society in how to cover up their activities by not issuing accounts, deleting accounts, correcting them, or using programs that allow these audit trails to be erased. In our society, we have been against the tax registers for a long time, but it appears that they will become a fact. The law is in interdepartmental coordination and we hope that it will come to Parliament as soon as possible. In fact, all of us are not yet sufficiently aware that paying taxes means not giving to the State, but actually giving to ourselves. For who is the state? We're the state. We're the ones who use the services. From taxes paid we have better public education, public health and all other services. We don't have enough consciousness yet. I have heard the paradox today, on the one hand, that people are talking about possible civil disobedience because taxes are too high, but I have heard the paradox when people today expressed themselves at a consultation that we had with regard to the living situation with Roma that they wanted to be taxpayers because they would be employed in this way. A lot of people don't have a chance to be a taxpayer. The law on the validation of accounts, which will introduce tax receipts, will also try to regulate this system and discipline. This is a system that will allow data to be automatically generated and transferred to the Financial Administration for approval and, of course, this will be shown automatically by the Financial Administration itself. What seems important to me and what has been missing so far is an important control; that those who buy this service or goods will also have to prove at the end of this transaction. So, even buyers who buy this service will be obliged to prove that we have an account upon exit from a certain space. It seems to me that in this way we will indeed help ourselves to do so, not only will there be greater competition on the market, that we, as customers, will also have the opportunity to appeal, but in particular we will improve the business environment, and in the final stage there will be more of these taxes for the social state we are talking about. Although I must also agree with what has been said today that it is not important how much the state is social, but, of course, how effective it is, and we will also achieve effectiveness if lawyers who have found irregularities respect the rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word! Today, much has been said and said in the debates or in the views of the groups of Members. The proposer, as we have heard, wants to achieve an increase in the business and confidence of the public in fair and legitimate business in the field of the business of notaries, lawyers and lawyers. So far, everything's fine and well, you could call it that, or you could say it, even very much like it. But only at first sight. In previous discussions, it has been mentioned several times that when you receive a proposal for a law on table changes, it is good to look at the whole law. Every time we get a marriage on the table, I take the whole law before me, and I'm just going to focus on notary law. The applicant also noted in Article 2, paragraph 2, that the revenue of notaries as persons of public confidence is public for the purposes of protecting the reputation of notariat as a public service and for ensuring the trust of the parties in relation to the operation of the notariat as a public service. The revenue of the notary is also public and so on and so on. It is said that notaries are obliged to keep records and books chronologically, even to complete them at the end of the calendar year, as laid down in the rules on notary. So, all of this data is then merged, transmitted to the Notary Chamber, which it gets from notaries. In addition, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the Ministry of Justice and the Notary Chamber exercise control over the operation of notaries and determine whether the quality of the provision of notary services is at an appropriate level. It is noted that Furs does not record irregularities in the financial operations of notaries or the payment of their tax obligations. Thus, notaries belong to those who, on the basis of the current regulation of the data contained in the annual public publication reports, do not broadcast. However, the notaries shall draw up their balance sheets in accordance with Slovenian accounting standards 39 and send them to Furs. There are many things, and I personally believe that confidence in the public cannot be increased simply by the proposed legal solution, as data on the operation of notaries are already publicly available, and it would be more important that notaries are professional and that the customer is clearly chosen by the notary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. At the end of 2013, one of the online media also published the following entry: "In the last two years is Durs," we say then Durs, "checked 119 lawyers." You're supposed to hide a million euros in taxes together. And you today, Your Honor, are asking what effect, or what added value, the proposed change has. I find these questions a little funny. I had even heard earlier that such a law could be written in three, four minutes and there would be no problem. Take a look at your Law on the Court Register, Your Honor, after a quick procedure you have proposed, the Legal and Legal Service has said that it is constitutionally controversial, the opinions were contradictory, and today you are reading to this law how unseriously prepared it is. I do not think that this is fair and that this simply means that there is no substantive argument against or against the adoption of this law. Next. Earlier it was said that who cares — says citizens — whether some lawyer has more income and some other lawyer has less income in his business. That's not true! I'm going to run another comparison with the court registry. And there we were able to publish a small entrepreneur and a big entrepreneur? There's no problem. And not just that, you went so far as to get businesses in an unequal position? Those established before 2008 will not be there, and those who are after this year will be there. Today, however, you are troubled by a proposal that in itself does not know what it may be at odds with. It is only for notaries and lawyers to draw up an annual report and its publication. And I said earlier, the annual report is kind of a reflection of some piece of work and property of a lawyer and a notary. I think this is useful information for citizens. Why not? And why does he say no, it's not an added value, it's unnecessary, etc. I think that if we asked citizens and citizens today to further demonstrate this interest so that this information could be obtained. I will not owe because I think that everything has already been said before, it is only about whether we really want to take a step forward in this area as well. The fact is, it has been said that they do not have similar arrangements in some other countries. That's right. The question is also whether their lawyers make a million-dollar tax evasion within two years. This is also a question and what would these countries do if something like this were to happen. But I'm going to end by quoting your minister right next to the Court Registry Act. He said, "Today, if you go into politics, if you go to college, if you go into any other relationship outside, you give up a lot of privacy, and it's the same thing if you go into business." What else is business? So, don't have, respectable, double standards. Our country still has a major problem with transparency, a major problem with non-payments, and it is only right that we take every step in the National Assembly to reduce or even prevent these matters. Of course, it's up to you whether you want it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I would like to stress once again – and there was a lot of talk about this in the debate – that is, even now lawyers who carry out their activities as a legal society, as an economic society, have an obligation to publish annual reports under the Company Act. So it's one now. However, since we do not want to have double criteria if I use the words of my predecessor, it does not seem appropriate for those lawyers who carry out their legal professions to introduce a different system, different criteria than those applicable to other professions. That is why, in my opening presentation, I have also highlighted, yes, whether it is possible to take a step further in the direction of transparency, but let us do this for all equally, let us have uniform criteria for all professions. However, I would like to say that, already now, supervisory institutions have the possibility to verify the correctness of the data in the entity itself, whether or not these data have been made publicly available, they should be able to be reviewed and verified. That is also why the violations that you have been alerting have been identified. So, even though it's not a public announcement, that doesn't mean the data is hidden to the eyes. As far as the lawyer is concerned, I would like to say once again that the lawyer has a special status on the one hand, but there is some specificity here, and on the other hand this is why this profession is so much more regulated. As you know, even in the case of free legal aid and representation on official duty, the Minister of Justice is giving the legal tariff, i.e. in the case of the services of lawyers paid from the state budget, we have also limited the scope of payment of these services by law. In short, lawyering as a profession is monitored and regulated all the time, but, as it is said, in this area, which is the subject of today's debate, it is necessary to have the same criteria for all professions and we do not see the need to make an exception to lawyers here. With regard to notaries, once again: the written opinion and also the debate have repeatedly shown that the regulation is already quite appropriate. The Notary Chamber publishes the report. Nor have we found any known evidence of such business violations in notaries. That's it, maybe one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you. Finally, a representative of the proposer, and then there's a time-sharing. So now the representative of the proposer, Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko, has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In fact, Mrs Murgel raised one such real problem, namely contracts between entrepreneurs and state-owned enterprises. I hope that it will be one challenge for you, representatives of the coalition, to do something in this area. I'd like to do it again – yes, for the notaries. True, income data are publicly published, although not in a visible place, no, for example, on the APIS portal, where all other data are available, but only income, name and place of office, but not all annual reports have been published. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to make these two proposals, to amend the law on legal representation and notariat in particular: to increase transparency and transparency in the business of notaries and lawyers, indirectly to increase the confidence of the public and stakeholders in the fair and legal functioning of notaries and lawyers and then to indirectly influence the reduction of the scope of the grey economy in their business. All this with one small change — the fact that the annual reports are public. Why? In the past, there has been a lot of writing in the media and also a lot of attention paid by the tax administration to lawyers, as it has also found a number of irregularities in showing revenue, showing expenditure, applying incentives and in calculating VAT. Most of all, there are irregularities found just because they don’t issue bills — we know that lawyers usually do business with cash. The grey economy itself, as you imagine here, will not be resolved by the introduction of the tax registers, because those who have not yet issued the bill, even if they continue to do so, will have no difference. Thus, you may not have too many positive effects in this area. However, with the publication of the data, at least something could move in this direction. Why? Perhaps, though, it would be a shame for a lawyer to see publicly that he is reporting incomes or incomes at a level that belongs to the lowest income class. While driving a luxury car that has a luxury home, it may at least be a bit of a focus on this more honest business. I am sure that the public hearing of the annual reports would not harm anyone, nor would it mean any further work, since, however, lawyers and notaries must draw up annual reports and actually submit them to Furs. Everything that is – they don't give it to the iPad. But I agree, we have proposed two groups of independent professions. And yes, maybe it really makes sense to prepare some systemic solution that will apply to everyone. As you said before, it will obviously be necessary to wait for this systemic solution by the coalition, which will in fact be prepared for all professions. However, this is precisely what we highlighted because it was, if we went to look, the most written and written in the media and by the tax administration of entrepreneurs. One more thing, when we dealt with tax receipts on the Committee, was also repeatedly pointed out by coalition Members that this was also necessary because of lawyers. In fact, we wanted at least a little bit of help in making their business more transparent and in order to gain a little more confidence in the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased to hear what the Ministry representative has said. I agree that this is likely to have to be compensated or upgraded in other self-employed professions and that it would make sense to adopt a general package that would allow this; but, look, you say that this would somehow put the individual profession in an unequal position. But why are you doing this here, and you didn't do it in a court of law? And in the court register, that wasn't a problem for you. Once again, 2008: before and after. These companies will not be, nor are they equally understood, or people do not have access, nor will they have access to the Court Register. I think that, given that the annual reports are still preparing, I see no reason why we should not try to make these matters public and see how they are doing in this profession, or how they are improving things, and then, of course, we can systematically extend the matter to other areas. As far as I know, between these jobs at the stroke, there's an attorney's office, and somewhere else, that I won't say health care. But somehow we can't take everything or put it in the same basket. Here I think that certainly the adoption of this law at least in this first reading would allow us to upgrade things where necessary, add to the concerns that you think are missing, but we cannot possibly eat or accept that the biggest problem is that we would somehow have double criteria. When we talk about double standards, when we don't, we forget about it. Therefore, I continue to argue that the law amending or modifying the register of justice that you have adopted is much more controversial, including constitutional. But she went through a little bit, and here I think there's only one added value, where actually citizens can look at what a particular lawyer has to say about his work. Why not? At the end of the day, I'd be interested in why not, and I believe there are others. So I really don't see any objections here, why don't we go ahead with this law and see what the results will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u192	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. I think that by mixing this between the Registry and now this bill is not entirely justified. First, because of the specific position of lawyers. That amendment to the Law of the Court Register was intended for someone who would sell to someone, let's say, three trucks of bricks to review his business report and see what his status is. He'll see that he's heavily in debt, he might even have a blocked account, and he'll say that now you pay the advance, and you get the goods, but I don't give - I don't know - 30 days of maturity. And that's the difference. A lawyer doesn't get a lawyer, either a lawyer or a notary. What's the cost? Order probably chemical pencils, order paper — cartooning. In short, this is a significant difference already in this, both in the Notary profession or in the Lawyer's, it is not at all comparable to any other trading on the market and, for example, with the cases I mentioned earlier. I agree with that: you have someone, a business entity, who's got 30,000, 20,000 euros in traffic, and you drive a car worth 200,000 euros. There's probably a case like this. But then we're missing data again, and what if he inherited something, what if he got married richly. If we want to get a picture of a man like that and find out if he might be a tax evasioner or maybe dealing with some other crime, then we need the whole picture. We just don't find anything out of his business from those numbers. As I said, tax evasion is not in the business report. It's not like that. Unfortunately, this information doesn't help us, that's the problem. It's also justified in its own way, but why is it here, and the press, and the doctors, and I don't know who it is. After all, why don't all citizens give all the information about themselves, because it can also be a legitimate debate, just look, and some privacy must probably be enjoyed by someone in the country. But there is something else I want to say to the proponents; Germany does not need this transparency as you imagine, Finland does not need it – Finnish justice is very important to you – Austria does not need it, so there is no reason for me to go back to my own particular path. That's not how I'm gonna be able to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-23-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u193	There's no replica in time-sharing. This concludes the debate. On the proposals for conclusions that the proposals for legislation are suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's timetable tomorrow, 24. 4. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the seventh session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck.
