ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Ludmila Novak from 18:00 on, Mrs. Suzanne Leup Šimenko, Violeta Tomić from 17:00 on, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, mag. Branislav Rajić by 6 p.m., Mr. Tillen Bozič by 11 p.m. and mag. Bojan Krajnc by 10:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on cross-border insurance of callers by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! The Act currently in force on the bridge insurance of professional athletes in Article 41 provides that the operator, that is, the Capital Society, shall form a bridge fund and determine the manner in which the bridge fund committee shall be set up within 12 months of the entry into force of the law, that is to say until 21. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the law in force was passed in the National Assembly on the basis of a proposal by Members, and the Government then opposed the adoption of the law, the law itself deviates considerably from any comparable legal regime in the Republic of Slovenia and represents, we can say, a novelty in the legal order. The provisions of the current law are unclear, for example, who is liable to contribute to the fund, which is the basis for the contribution from which the resources are paid. They are also incomplete, for example, missing data that Kad needs to manage the fund, such as a tax number, and partly contradicting each other, such as entering the insurance register, starting membership in accordance with and so on. Therefore, the institutions to which the law applies are the Capital Society, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Slovenian Sports Union, the Securities Markets Agency, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport could not implement or implement in the implementation of such vague provisions of the law significant risks of legal and financial nature. The capital company, as an entity designated in the law for the creation and management of the bridge insurance fund of professional athletes, has prepared amendments to more than a third of the articles of the current law on which intensive coordination between the Ministry of Finance, the Capital Society, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Slovenian Sports Union, the Securities Market Agency, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport have been taking place since the end of 2014. In the process of harmonisation of the text of the amendment, it was found that the Capital Society would not be able to form a bridge fund until the due date, which is 21 June, as provided for in Article 41 of the current law, since the current provisions of the law, as already stated, are unclear, incomplete and derogate from comparable legal arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia. Since there are still many open issues among stakeholders who have been harmonising the text of the amendment since autumn 2014, the amendment of the law, which would also provide for an extension of the deadline for the formation of the fund, is still open until 21. 6. cannot be implemented. In order not to have any irreparable consequences for this reason resulting from an attempt to create an occupational sports bridge insurance fund on the basis of the current legal provisions in force, which could, of course, also lead to legal and other risks, for example, financial risks, this amendment proposes only an extension of the deadline for the formation of the fund. A later novel, which is still being coordinated, would also address all outstanding issues. At present, most of the cases that have been previously exposed as open, are already harmonised; there are still outstanding issues relating to the turnover of insurance transactions to be paid in the payment of the bridging rent, as well as a few other matters to which the regulators have to agree, namely, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, such as the investment of funds in various forms of financial instruments. To this end, we ask for an extension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, President, fellow Member and fellow Members, everyone is very welcome! At its 12th regular session, on 12 June 2015, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Remediation Insurance of Professional athletes, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. At its 30th regular meeting on 8 June 2015, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law amending the Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes should be considered on an urgent basis. Within the time limit, the amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek at Article 1. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andreja Barle Lakota, said that the purpose of the bill is to extend the deadline for the creation of a bridge insurance fund for professional athletes. This will allow the amendment, which is in coordination, to resolve the confusion and resolve all remaining open issues of the law and the Fund will be duly placed in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. Her representative pointed out that it would suggest considering an appropriate longer period for setting up the Fund. She explained that it was necessary to take into account the time that the proposer, together with the stakeholders, needed to prepare a comprehensive novelty, the time for regular consideration of the draft law in the legislative procedure, the appropriate scope and complexity of the matter, and also the appropriate time frame for the implementation of the amended legal regime. The discussion was mainly about the deadline for the extension of the creation of a bridge insurance fund for professional athletes. The amendment's proposer explained that the proposed deadline is too short for the lack of clarity, uncoordinatedness, subordination and non-executiveness of the applicable law. In his view, the law in force needs a thorough overhaul, but it cannot be implemented within a few months. He considered that, in order to avoid a renewed extension of the deadline, it would be advisable to consider an appropriate longer period for the establishment of the Fund. However, the Ministry explained that they do not support the amendment because the law in force is not enforceable and is already in its final stage of coordination. As a result, the amendment of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, to point 1, was also withdrawn. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the labour market, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Remediation Insurance of Professional athletes be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Primož Hainz, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u6	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes. In the Desus Group, we are well aware of the importance of Slovenian sport, especially of top sports and outstanding results achieved by top athletes. Supreme athletes are the most powerful promoter of the country abroad and have an outstanding psychological impact on all generations in terms of sports and healthy lifestyles. However, in the previous mandate, the Desus Group did not support this law, this specific law. We had substantive reservations, and we also opposed the law because we doubted that in all the inconsistencies, uncertainties and shortcomings of the constitutional, systemic and nomotechnic nature, the law could be successfully implemented in practice. Unfortunately, despite extensive amendments to the labour force and to the plenary at the second and third readings, the law was not prepared in such a way that it could also be implemented. We therefore advocate that the amendment of the law extend the deadline for the creation of a bridge insurance fund for professional athletes whose manager will be the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance. In the Desus Group we will support the extension of the deadline, and by 1 November we expect appropriate and comprehensive amendment of the law which will enable the law to be revived in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u7	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! All citizens and citizens are always proud and proud with flags, jerseys and otherwise we stand by our athletes and athletes when they win and when they are successful. And even when we accompany them through many selections from the beginning and also to senior selections in their activities promoting our country, giving it a reputation and essential contribution to the education of citizens and citizens, which is also largely intended for sport. The truth, however, that accompany all our athletes, whom we are so proud of, is that they have a very specific career path. On this path, during about a quarter of the normal working days, an individual must create enough to live a decent and good life. With this, with the exception of rare exceptions, not everyone in the Republic of Slovenia has an easy way. Many have problems after a career is over, and most of them face an existential issue, which is usually also related to the question of how to integrate professionally, educationally and through employment into a society that is even different from that of a professional athlete. That is why such a law is necessary and necessary. In the previous case, the Social Democrats did not support it for a simple reason, because the proposed parliamentary law was impracticable, as is evident today. It is therefore important that the National Assembly – of course in the hope that everyone here understands the importance of professional sport and the work done by athletes and athletes for the development, promotion and reputation of the Republic of Slovenia – adopt an extension of the deadline for the implementation of this law. And to give the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport the opportunity to draw up a law that can be implemented; and to draft a law that will allow equal access to work, education and life for those athletes who, after an approximate quarter of their working life, actually reenter the labour market and some socialisation unit of society. It is crucial that the drafting of the new law also removes the evidence that it is a matter of conferring privileges. It is essential to remove this prejudice, and it is essential to prevent such a law from being misused as a so-called tax oasis or for possible money laundering. We believe that the Ministry will properly prepare the amendment or amendments to the law; we therefore support its early implementation in the timetable proposed by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u9	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. The social security of professional athletes is an extremely important issue. The previous call of the National Assembly tried to rescue him by setting up a fund for bridging insurance for athletes. That this has been done extremely superficially, there is no need to repeat the legal chaos that is impossible to carry out in practice. The main question we need to ask ourselves is whether it is possible to resolve the situation from these sources by means of legislative changes and make a real functional fund. The most likely answer is that no, and that it is only an extension of the time limit to prolonging agony, which in many cases we are already accustomed to from the current government. In the United Left, we will therefore not object to this extension. Instead, we prefer to ask about the initial solutions in this law or the very design of the bridging fund. Professional sport is no exception to the economic and social trends that characterise neoliberalism. If we look at all the sports industries today, we see that all professional athletes have experienced espionage, which is a huge problem with us, especially with young organisations. The case of athletes is specific, because of course it is not about classical employees, but at the same time it is not entirely about the free profession, especially in the collective sports sectors. There's a very high level of leniency in professional athletes. In addition to forms of employment, it is also due to the specific requirements of sport from physical limitations and the length of careers to the possibility of injury, difficult rehabilitation and return to a satisfactory level, etc. Professional athletes do not have any labour rights guaranteed by laws or collective agreements. Most of the time we see successful top athletes competing and winning collages at big spectacular events and popular figures in the media, but we miss the vast majority of professional athletes who work and live in extremely difficult economic and social conditions. Income inequality is extremely large. The most exposed athletes are well-maintained, often individually sponsored and in many cases employed in public administration. This latter way allows athletes to have paid contributions and thus enjoy basic social security. It would certainly be necessary to consider how to make this principle more effective in order for the public administration to have more of these employees and more meritocratic and more accessible. It is important to realize that in many sports industries professional or semi-professional athletes with their incomes are difficult to date even now, even after their careers have ended. Often these athletes are only uplifted by the love of sports alone. The question is whether the current situation is even legal, since many athletes meet all the conditions for a regular working relationship, which clubs avoid because of savings in labour costs. According to the 2010 Slovenian Professional Players' Union survey, 167 football players were against only four for the introduction of working relationships. On the other hand, clubs that are forced to do so are underfunded, underfunded or forced to compete outside sports courts and arenas, to compete on the market, so they must hire their labour force for as little cost as possible. In order to address the social situation of professional athletes instead of the starting points on which the bridge insurance fund of professional athletes is based, we need a mechanism that will be sustainable, solidarity and redistributive and will equalise and eliminate inequalities, but not consolidate them. It is even more important to solve the problem in the very foundations, namely, the organisation and development of sport in our country. It is therefore necessary to be very skeptical until today's proposal for a law amending the Law on the Crossing Insurance of Professional athletes. Is it even possible to make an operational solution from this chaotic, unregulated, dysfunctional legislation based on unfair and non-solidarity principles? In the United Left, we don't think so. We need a different solution, which will actually regulate the social situation of all professional athletes in a fair manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u12	Your Honor, Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! About a good year ago, Christian Democrats contributed to the signature of the Proposal for a Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes, which was written by the Slovenian Sports Union. In fact, athletes often find themselves in a vacuum that can be very stressful for an individual because they are running out of funds for running costs, not just to start a new business idea. As a result, former professional athletes may have major difficulties entering a new life. The proposed law is intended to provide these athletes with funds for a time when they will be involved in life when sport will no longer represent their basic or fundamental source of income. We have already stressed that the competent ministry is responsible for the adoption of the law being duly completed and the area in a manner that will be legally enforceable. Unfortunately, the ministry has waited too long, and now, following the urgent procedure, we accept an extension of the deadline so as to buy some more time to prepare a recast of the law. We will not oppose this extension by the Christian Democrats, but at the same time we hope that the ministry will really propose a comprehensive amendment to the law in a short time, and thus properly regulate this area. Slovenian athletes perform miracles on a global and European scale according to the country's financial capabilities. In doing so, they are making almost inhuman efforts to achieve good results, indicating that not everything is in money. After a long career, however, they have many health problems. However, those who perform in sports that are not so interesting and financially supportive are in even greater financial difficulties. Therefore, athletes deserve to be supported in their efforts to resolve their status at least during the transition period when they are most difficult. We call on the Ministry to adopt appropriate solutions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u13	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome back! The Act on Overstretching Insurance of Professional athletes, adopted in May 2014, took a step forward in the field of regulating top-notch professional sports and athletes. The objectives of the then adopted law were certainly noble. At the time, the proposal was intended to ensure the transparency and transparency of the system of employment of professional athletes in sports societies and to open up systemic possibilities and establish a specific form of professional insurance for athletes. However, the debate at the time revealed the shortcomings of the law, the weaknesses and the derogation from the system regime in particular in the field of tax legislation. The law is intended to allow professional athletes to tax part of their income untaxed through post-life bridge insurance and the state would support it with appropriate tax incentives. At that time, the government did not support the law because of too many open issues and dilemmas, the financial situation in the country and the insufficient range of beneficiaries and the sustainability of such a fund. The derogation from systemic solutions and too many inconsistencies was also noted at the time by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Today, a year after the adoption of the law, the Government has prepared corrective measures or proposes a bridge period extending the deadline for the creation of a bridge insurance fund for professional athletes. At the time of the hearing on the committee responsible, we have pointed out that we are assessing in the Alliance that the proposed deadline is too short. Simply put, the law in force needs a thorough overhaul, but it cannot be implemented within a few months. The latter is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In view of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, it is likely that a comprehensive amendment to the current law will be expected in the form of a new law. In order to avoid a renewed extension of the deadline, it would also suggest considering an appropriate longer deadline for the establishment of the Fund. In this spirit, we have also tabled an amendment to the draft law on the working body to allow the Government and Kadu to prepare a basis that could truly follow the objectives presented in the introduction. Both representatives of the Government and the representative of Kada argued on Friday during the consideration of the bill that this round was unnecessary and that they could do all the necessary services, coordinate and implement within the next few months. It is precisely because of this claim that we have decided in the Alliance and we have withdrawn the amendment proposal. In the Alliance, we will support the bill. We have offered an elegant solution to the government to withdraw the law a little while longer, and we have allowed the law enforcement and enforcement authorities to supplement and amend the law in a way that could actually live. I only hope that you have rejected these solutions not only because it came from the opposition party, but because you already have the right solutions prepared, which you have not least claimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u15	Ms Irena Kotnik has the floor of the Modern Centre's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u16	Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleague, colleague! Today we have before us the amendment of the law which was adopted in 2014 in the National Assembly. It was adopted with the aim of regulating the bridge insurance of professional and top athletes and athletes. By doing so, she tried to ensure their social security after the end of an active sports career. At the time of the adoption of the law, various actors drew attention to its inadequacy, non-systematicity and substantive imperfection. The implementation of the law in practice is hampered today due to a number of open issues. In fact, this makes it impossible to realize the basic purpose of the law, which we consider noble in the SMC Group. With the novel that we accept today, we are also trying to fill this implementation gap. By extending the deadline for the establishment of a bridge insurance fund for professional athletes by November 2015, they would allow for the implementation of the law. In this regard, let us stress the importance of the implementation phase of the basic public-policy decisions adopted in this case in law and its interconnection with the drafting or drafting of a specific act of law. The Law on Overstretching Insurance of Professional athletes is an excellent example, showing exactly how important it is that the proposals are clear, comprehensive, substantive and can be implemented in practice. In fact, it is determined to what extent the expectations of all stakeholders are satisfied, since implementation can or will not produce the desired or adverse effects. Even such a good solution to the social problem at a normative level in practice does not have the desired effects if the implementation of the decision is not successful. The legislator is also responsible for the adoption. In the SMC Group, we are pleased that intensive coordination has taken place in the last few months between all stakeholders involved on the amendment of the law which would enable its actual implementation, in order to ensure the best possible functioning of the bridging fund and the role of the Capital Society responsible for the creation and management of the fund. Implementing everyday decisions when a law becomes part of social reality often leads to negotiations and compromise needs. The new law, which we are deciding today, will allow a decision to be drawn up in an appropriate time frame to bridge the insurance of professional athletes. The news that will follow will remove all the confusion and open questions that make the law in force impossible to live in practice. In the SMC Group, we do not wish to see the country's stepfatherly attitude towards sport, which must be the field of action of each responsible authority, due to the number and importance of its functions as a society as a whole. We therefore support the proposed amendment and also expect corrective measures that will fully fill the inability to effectively and effectively implement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u17	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u18	Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! I must say that as a former athlete, for 13 years I have been training a Jew, of course I am very glad that there is a law in the field of sport on the agenda of the National Assembly. I would like to see more of these laws and debates myself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were also among the co-signors and proponents of the Law on Overstretching Insurance of Professional athletes towards the end of the last term of the National Assembly. We expected and hoped that the law would enter into force in June this year, as originally envisaged. In view of the fact that this extension of the time limit for the implementation of the law is also supported by athletes, we support the proposal for a amendment to the law, by which we give partners some extra time in the process to harmonise and properly prepare sub-legislative acts. At the same time, we expect the Ministry to speed up these activities so that we can say that by the end of the year we will have a law that finally gives the athletes something. Slovenian athletes in international comparisons produce excellent results. But we politicians need to create an environment in which they can live normally, have motivation, are proud of the country they are fighting for, and that they can live their careers and use their knowledge and experience to transfer knowledge to new generations of athletes and athletes. The organisation of the education of top athletes is problematic. There are also some reserves to be pointed out as part of professional sport. At the same time, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we call for Slovenia's policy to be finally comprehensively presented and approaches to solving the problem of Slovenian sport. In particular, funding in connection with the resources of gambling concessions should be set up and appropriate programmes should be developed to draw up European funds. Here we see a lot of potential and unfortunately also in the past many missed opportunities. It will also be better to protect the position of athletes, with emphasis on young athletes. Today, when I talk to many members and the presidents of sports associations, there are quite a few of them that go beyond the aberration of legislation in the field of societies related to activities in sport. When talking about Slovenian sport in general, however, it should be noted that the average age of a sports facility or sports infrastructure in Slovenia is 40 years. We can therefore see that the conditions for working with our other countries, which are also competitors in the competitions, are not optimal and the safety and health aspects are also questionable. It is also probably logical that more than the old equipment and the things on which sports activity is carried out, there is also a greater risk of injury. Finally, I point out that sport in Slovenia is not only the Stožice and center of Planica, where more money has gone through than in the last 20 years together for Slovenian sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u19	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour on the adjournment of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is the defence proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Control Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Miha Marenč.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Honourable Members, honourable Members, all of you have a nice greeting on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food! Allow me to briefly introduce to you the proposed amendments and additions to the livestock law. The livestock law needed a thorough overhaul, so at the Ministry we decided to introduce a change of law in two phases. The first one you accept at today's meeting contains only some of the most urgent changes in order to avoid any difficulties in implementing European Union regulations, in particular in the area of recognition of breeding organisations that run the original breeding book, is Kobilana Lipica. Later, we will prepare an amendment to the whole Law on livestock, once the content of the already mentioned Regulation of the European Union is known, which is expected to be in 2016-2018. In 2015, the five-year period of recognition for breeding organisations and the validity of breeding programmes shall expire. Therefore, breeding organisations should submit new applications in accordance with the applicable livestock law for recognition or confirmation for a period of five years. The recognition procedure should be re-imposed in five years when the new zootechnical regulation is likely to be in force. Given that the new proposed regulation currently under consideration lays down new criteria for proof of the management of the original breeding book for equidae – the European Regulation provides for only one native breeding book in the field of horses – we could have difficulties in recognising the breeding programme and the original breeding book for Lipisan, since for the same breed, as already mentioned, Kobilarna Piber also runs the ancestral book in Austria. We therefore propose that this amendment of the law should change the period of validity of breeding organisations and breeding programmes from five years to an indefinite period. This practice has been established in many European countries, and this also prevents potential problems from being confirmed by the future breeding programme. This amendment will be implemented by means of a transitional provision stipulating that breeding organisations and breeding programmes recognised or approved in accordance with the existing law for a period of five years shall be considered breeding organisations and breeding programmes recognised or certified for an indefinite period in accordance with the new law adopted. The Ministry of Justice will therefore issue a decision extending the recognition for an indefinite period to all breed organisations having an approval decision by the end of 2015. In addition, this amendment actively addresses the removal of administrative barriers, as breeding programmes that are subject to long-term content will no longer be subject to five annual applications and hearings and decisions. At the same time, this reduces administrative costs for breeding organisations for the preparation of applications as well as the administrative costs of the Ministry. With regard to the administrative costs of the Law on livestock, we also amend the work which provides for the publication of organisations in livestock in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the list of organisations in livestock sector is constantly changing, it is more appropriate to update the list only on the websites of the Ministry of Field Affairs, so we will also reduce the costs of publication in this area. The other amendments to the law are foreseen after the adoption of the Regulation of the European Union. The law shall enter into force the next day following its publication. The breeding organisations to which the recognition expires at the end of 2015 must submit a re-recognition application at least half a year before the expiry of the application, which is the last day of June. In this way, recognised breeding organisations will not have to submit new applications to extend the recognition that expires at the end of 2015. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u21	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u22	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on livestock as a working body at its 8th session, on 3 June 2015. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments on certain provisions of the draft law, which were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and which were also adopted by the Committee. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. The Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia participated in the discussion, stressing that the Chamber had participated in the drafting of the bill and also supported it. The members of the Committee did not discuss individual articles and amendments tabled. Before the final vote on the articles of the bill, however, a large majority of the members supported the bill's proposal in explanation of vote, as the proposed solutions will help to remove administrative obstacles and reduce administrative costs for both breed organisations and the Ministry, and in particular to ensure the management of the original horse's breeding book. However, a member of the Committee of the Members of the Group, the United Left, explained that the Group of Members of the European Union, which abolishes the publication of breeding programmes in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, supports, but has reservations about a solution that changes the five-year recognition period to unlimited time for recognised breeding organisations, while other recognised organisations and approved organisations are still recognised for only five years. In her view, such a solution raised the idea that the proposed amendments to the law were only a first step towards the gradual establishment of the characteristics of breeding organisations, especially if the conditions for obtaining the status of breeding organisations and the approval of breeding programmes would soon be strengthened. This would put some organisations in a position to have their breeding programmes confirmed for an indefinite period, while others would be hampered by the approval of breeding programmes and the status of breeding organisations. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! We are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on livestock when, at the level of the European Union, they are adopting a whole new European regime concerning the period of validity of breed organisations and breeding programmes. This is extremely important for Slovenia, as the 5-year period for the recognition of breeding programmes expires in 2015 and the procedure for the allocation of breeding programmes for the following period should be reopened after the expiry of these five years. If the law remained unchanged and the new regulation of the European Union was in force, we could have very serious problems with all breeding programmes in Slovenia. The fact that this law extends breeding programmes from 5 years to indefinite is certainly very welcome for all our breeding programmes, and in particular this will be very important for Kobilna Lipica. In the field of breeding of equidae, the European Union proposal retains the instrument of the original breeding book, also sets out the requirement that the breeding organisation must comply with in order to keep the original breeding book, and the period of recognition of breeding organisations and the validity of breeding programmes in this programme is not limited in time. This means that recognised breed organisations in Slovenia should submit applications for recognition and approval of breeding programmes in accordance with the new legislation after the implementation of the EU Regulation and the expiry of the recognition period. Primarily, there could be problems in keeping a native book for the Lipican breed. In fact, in the process of obtaining the title book in the European Union, it should be demonstrated that there is no other organisation at the time of the application to maintain the original genealogical book for the same breed. And since we know that there are currently two recognised breeding organisations in the European Union that run the original copy book for the Lipica breed in Slovenia, namely Kobilna Lipica and in Austria Kobilna Piber, this law is extremely important for Kobilna Lipica and, finally, for the protection of our Slovenian pride, if I may say so, Lipica. In addition, the law reduces administrative obstacles and procedures that breeders must run every 5 years by extending the validity of programmes from 5 years to maintaining the original birthright book in Kobilana Lipica. So this is also welcome for everyone else from this point of view, as it is a long-term programme for breeding organisations, not a few years, but actually breeds over the decades, they develop, keep, so it is also extremely important after this wage that this law also defines the possibility of managing and operating breeding organisations for an indefinite time. We are confident that this will also contribute to a better quality of management of breeding organisations under proper supervision, which will be very important precisely for the reason that we are talking about an indefinite period of time. In the SD Group we will support this law for the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u26	Dear President, distinguished representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Even before we take up the substance of the proposal for amendments to the Law on livestock, the United Left Group would like to draw attention to what the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has written in the explanation of the bill, I quote: "The need for amendments to the Law on livestock has been real since 2011 when the Minister's decision called an expert working group to prepare changes and supplement the law. For in some parts, the current law is quite outdated, contains a lot of content that is excessive or not implemented, there are no sub-laws and in some cases creates additional administrative burdens for both citizens and the state administration." End of quote. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 125 of the Law on livestock, the competent ministry of the sub-law should issue the act no later than four years after its entry into force. This year it is 13 years since the adoption of this law, and the ministry can easily admit that there are still no sub-laws that some content is redundant and so on. We wonder what the Ministry of Agriculture has done for the past 13 years and whether it makes any sense for the entire state-level administration to be scrutinized by the adoption of some laws which, 13 years after their adoption, the competent Ministry of Justice to interpret flexibly that some of their provisions are not being implemented and that they have not adopted any sub-legislative acts to implement them. Indeed, we keep reminding Members of similar problems in relation to various laws now, now the other parliamentary groups, and it is rare that without any initiative, the competent ministry will only come to the National Assembly with the law and order them to work. With such a statement, the Ministry shows disrespect for the work of Members and Members of the National Assembly, as well as for all other employees in this house. But let me say that in the United Left we welcome at least the honesty and self-criticism of the Ministry of Agriculture. Now a few words about the very content of the law. The main consequence of the adoption of this law will be that Kobilina Lipica will continue to have the status of a breeding organisation because, otherwise, it would lose its status as a result of an EU regulation requiring that a breeding organisation, in the event of keeping its original breeding book, must prove that no other breeding organisation is running such a book at the time of the application for recognition of the status of a breeding organisation. However, since such a book is also run by Kobilna Piber in Austria, that would not be possible. We will therefore support the proposal for amendments to the law. We warn, however, that it is wrong for one organization to resolve its complications by changing the law that applies to many others. Kobalna Lipica faces many other problems that we have pointed out in the United Left in the past, and we hope that the Ministry will systematically approach these problems in the future, not that ad hoc changes laws that concern many others and not just Kobilarna. We all know that livestock farming is developing year after year. Therefore, breeding programmes and requirements must also be developed accordingly, so that the five-year limitation currently in force is not even wrong, except for the specific problem of Kobilarna Lipica itself. Indeterminate breeding programmes can also be the first step towards the gradual establishment of the characteristics of breeding organisations. In particular, if the conditions for obtaining the status of breeding organisation and the approval of breeding programmes are soon to be strengthened. Thus, we can find ourselves in a situation where some organisations will have their breeding programmes for an indefinite period, while others would be made it difficult to approve breeding programmes and acquire the status of breeding organisations. That is why we will support this proposal in the United Left Group, but we will continue to monitor this area closely. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u27	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u28	Your Honor! The proposal for a novel of the livestock law justifies the amendment by making the applicable livestock law obsolete, contains more content that is obsolete and not implemented, and gives rise to administrative burdens both to users and to the State. Currently, the recognition of breeding organisations and the validity of breeding programmes in Slovenia are limited to a period of five years. Novela proposes that this period should be changed for an indefinite period, which would save the organisations a huge number of administrations. We Christian Democrats stand for simple procedures, and we also support this solution. Another change that goes in the direction of simple procedures is also a step forward. The list of breeding organisations in accordance with the proposal for a novel will no longer have to be published in the Official Journal, but will be updated on the Ministry’s websites. The same website will also publish a list of organisations to which recognition or approval has been withdrawn by the date of withdrawal. The current period of validation of breeding programmes for a period of five years shall be transferred from a lower level of each breeding programme to a higher level. The common basic breeding programme will be confirmed for a period of five years. The measure makes sense as the common basic breeding programme also provides for funding. The Ministry of Agriculture also foresees an almost extensive amendment of the law when a new European legislation on livestock is adopted. Christian Democrats will support the amendment of the livestock law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u29	The text is given by the Modern Centre Group of Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are aware of the necessity and importance of amending the law on livestock, which refers to the validity of recognition of breeding organisations and certification of breeding programmes, as this creates the legal basis for preserving the original book of ancestral origin for lipican, which is the pearl and pride of Slovenia, Slovenian livestock and tourism. The purpose of the amendment of the law is to change the period of validity of breeding organisations and breeding programmes from a statutory five-year period to a time limit, as also provided by the Regulation of the European Union and is already a practice in many European countries. By amending the law, we are also removing administrative obstacles and reducing the administrative costs associated with the investment and processing of applications and the issuance of decisions. Our definition of the proposed amendments to the law is justified by the following. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the five-year period of recognition for breeding organisations and the validity of breeding programmes is to expire this year, and breeding organisations should therefore be required to comply with the current legislation by the end of June or 1. 7. Submit applications for recognition of breeding organisations and validation of breeding programmes, and it must be demonstrated that at the time of application, there is no other organisation which, in accordance with the EU Regulation retaining the instrument of the original breeding book, would maintain a breeding book for the same breed, which would be a problem in the case of lipican, since there are currently two breeding organisations in the European Union that maintain the original breeding book for the Lipica breed in Slovenia, Kobilerna Lipica and in Austria, Kobilena Piber. If we confirm the proposed amendment, we will avoid the loss of Lipican. Your Honor! I hope that we have convinced you with these arguments and that you are joining our position on the proposed urgent changes to the law, which, due to outdatedness, will need to be redesigned as soon as possible, which will be an extremely demanding task, as it is necessary to implement European legislation and time to find appropriate systemic solutions that will increase the competitiveness of the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u31	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u32	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend the law provides for a change in the period of validity of breeding organisations and breeding programmes from five years to an indefinite period. This practice is established in many European countries. A transitional provision is provided for in order to provide that breeding organisations and breeding programmes recognised or approved in accordance with the existing law for a period of five years shall be recognised or confirmed as breeding organisations and breeding programmes for an indefinite period in accordance with the new law. At the same time, this amendment of the law actively removes administrative obstacles, as breeding programmes that are subject to long-term content will no longer be subject to five-year applications and hearings and decisions. At the same time, this reduces administrative costs for breeding organisations for the preparation of applications as well as the administrative costs of the Ministry. With regard to administrative costs, the Law on livestock also changes in the work which provides for the publication of organisations in livestock in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the list of organisations in livestock is constantly changing, it is more appropriate to update the list only on the Ministry’s websites. Therefore, the costs of publication will also be reduced in this area. At the same time, we avoid any problems in extending the breeding organisation of Kobilarna Lipica in accordance with the new European legislation, where we should prove and would hardly prove that only Kobilirna Lipica keeps the original ancestral book because it is also carried out by KobilirnaPiber in Austria. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this amendment of the law. However, we support any removal of administrative barriers, and this practice should be implemented without any threat to the amendment of new European legislation in other areas, such as spatial legislation, environmental, construction and so on, because we have too many administrative obstacles, too many costs, too many procedures, and this is all our economy and the country in general is being irritated and also hampered by development in all areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u33	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u34	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The need for amendments to the livestock law has been in place since 2011. At that time, the Minister's decision appointed an expert working group to prepare amendments and supplement the law. In some parts, the current law is quite outdated. It contains a lot of content that is excessive or not implemented. In some cases, however, there are additional administrative burdens on both citizens and the state administration. One of the main amendments to the current law is the link between the validation of breeding organisations and breeding programmes. In 2015, the five-year period of recognition for breeding organisations and the validity of breeding programmes expires and breeding organisations should therefore submit new applications under the applicable livestock law for recognition of breeding organisations and for validation of breeding programmes for a period of five years. Following the expiry of a five-year period, breeding organisations should submit new applications in accordance with new European legislation, which is not yet in force. The proposed European Regulation also provides for proof of the maintenance of the original pedigree book, which in the case of Slovenia is problematic in terms of the maintenance of the original copy book for lipices. At present, two breeding organisations are recognised in the European Union, which maintain the original copy book for the Lipican breed, namely our kobile Lipica and the Austrian cobile Piber, which could mean that Slovenia cannot prove that our breeding programme for Lipicance is the only one in Europe. Therefore, Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law, as we estimate that we can protect the breeding programme of the Lipicans only by changing the validity of the breeding programmes indefinitely before the end of this year when the five-year period of the approved breeding programme expires. The proposed amendment also removes administrative barriers as the breeding programmes, which apply to the long-term content, will no longer be subject to five-year applications and hearings and decisions. At the same time, this reduces administrative costs for breeding organisations for the preparation of applications as well as the administrative costs of the Ministry. The livestock law is also amended in the work which provides for the publication of organisations in livestock in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the list of organisations in livestock is constantly changing, it is more appropriate to update the list only on the Ministry’s websites. This will also reduce the cost of publication in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u35	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a second-level proposal for a law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u36	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The basic reason for the drafting of the new law is the new regulation or adaptation of the employment and work of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia to the provisions of the Aliens Act, which, on the basis of the transposition of the Single Application Procedure Directive, introduces the concept of a single residence permit and work permit, which will be issued in a new single procedure in administrative units. The transposition of this European Directive introduces the so-called principle All in one place for all foreigners who will apply for a residence permit for employment or work. Foreigners, third-country nationals who come to Slovenia for the purpose of employment, self-employment or work will no longer need two permits, as the new single permit will replace both the residence permit and the work permit. In particular, seasonal work shall be regulated. Seasonal work means an exception to a single permit. The Employment Office will issue it to employers for a period of up to 3 months, in which case foreigners, third-country nationals, will no longer need a new residence permit. The proposal for a law significantly simplifies the procedures for issuing a single work permit for both employers and foreigners. After a new process, they will obtain a residence permit and work permit substantially faster than now, expected within 30 days of the full application. It should be pointed out that the proposal for a new law significantly raises the level of protection of the rights of foreign workers compared to the existing law. According to the new legislation, only full-time employment of foreigners will be possible on the basis of a single permit. The draft law also specifically regulates the issue of non-application of foreigners to social security. According to a new proposal, the law provides that certain additional categories of foreigners who have the possibility of obtaining a personal permit under their status, i.e. the applicant for international protection, have the possibility of temporary protection of victims of trafficking in human beings, will have the right to free access. It should be pointed out that, after a new application for a job, it will no longer be compulsory in the single authorisation process and that the applicant, the right employer, will be able to verify the situation on the labour market before the application is submitted. The draft law also lays down the basis for the establishment of a list of occupations for employment in which the labour market will not be checked in the consent process. It's a so-called list of deficient professions. It is also essential for the legal safety of foreign workers in Slovenia that, in the case of extensions of all types of single licences under which a foreigner is employed in Slovenia, it is possible to remain employed in the new way until the decision on the application for renewal is made, there will be no interruption of social insurance. It is very important for us to stress that the law also strengthens sanctions for violations of the rights of foreign workers in Slovenia. The most serious violations are the prohibitions of employment, self-employment and work. The law provides for significantly stricter fines for offenders. The amounts of the penalties imposed are proposed according to the gravity of the offence committed or we propose that the penalty also has a dissuasive purpose. In practice, it has been shown that in the European Union countries, Germany, Austria, where penalties are much higher, there are no infringements. Dear Members and Members! The bill implements the European Directive, offers a number of advantages, both for employers and for foreign workers. The law has uniform support for all the social partners who have demonstrated their support at the Economic and Social Council. I propose that today, in the second reading, if it turns out that business deadlines have been met for the National Assembly to carry out the third reading of this bill at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u37	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u38	Dear President, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities shall be held at its 11th session. 6. In 2015, the draft Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, addressed the proposal for the examination and adoption of this Act on a regular basis. Representatives of the Government, the Legal and Legislative Service and representatives of the Council of State participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposal for a regulation in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and made some comments on the text of the individual articles. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Security, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which considered the proposal of the law and confirmed or had no substantive comments on it. It is also worth mentioning that the Economic and Social Council unanimously adopted the proposal for that law and had no substantive comments on it. Amendments were tabled by qualified applicants, namely the amendments of the United Left Group and several amendments, which followed the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service by coalition parliamentary groups. The drafter briefly presented the law, even today we have heard, and said that the basic reason for the drafting of the new law is the new regulation or adaptation of the employment and work of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia to the provisions of the Aliens Act, which, on the basis of the transposition of the EU Directive, introduces the concept of a single residence permit and a new work to be issued in a single procedure in administrative units. The transposition of the content of the provisions of the Directive also introduces the so-called principle All in one place for all foreigners who will apply for a residence permit for employment and work. In all words, a single licence will be issued in the form of a card. A foreigner who will replace the employer's post with the same employer during the period of validity of the card, who wishes to continue to work under another contract of civil law or to work with another employer, will only be granted written approval on the basis of the agreement of the institution and will not need to be replaced until the expiry of the validity of the card. The proposal for a new law includes other more important solutions, most of which, in the case of regulation in force, mean simplification or elimination of certain administrative procedures. In short, I would like to summarise the debate that took place on the Committee itself. It has been pointed out that, while the bill provides many good solutions, some find it unjustifiably distinguishes workers according to their education. It also lays down excessive penalties for workers. This was pointed out by the representative of the United Left Group, who also proposed the amendments. He stressed that the distinction based on education was not acceptable. They also consider the penalties to be disproportionate, as they stem from the erroneous belief that workers and not employers are responsible for the black work. The Government, as well as the majority of Members of the home labour force, also opposed those amendments in the light of the economic migration strategy adopted. The amendments would indeed extend access to work to all foreigners, but this is not in the interest of the Slovenian labour market. Other discussers also considered that this strategy should be taken into account as it is in the right direction and is in the interest of the Slovenian labour market. It has been pointed out that the proposal for a law represents substantial progress and provides greater legal protection and aims at hiring workers in the professions we want and need in Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u39	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u40	Dear Mr President, distinguished secretary, colleague and colleague! Slovenian and generally European legislation on the movement and work of foreigners is, unfortunately, increasingly repressive and therefore inhumane. We are increasingly separating immigrants into different categories and putting them in very different and very unequal situations. The legislation on the movement and work of foreigners clearly reflects the subordination of the work of capital, which is becoming the essence of the neoliberal European Union. The movement of workers, that is, people and their right to survive, limits the rules in a hundred and one way, even at the cost of the destroyed lives and families that are now fleeing the horrors of the Middle East. However, no regulation or very few regulations limit the free movement of capital, regardless of the social or environmental damage it causes. Tax havens are an extreme case. The European Union allows the free flow of social wealth into these countries. He allows it. It's a pretty big word. Countries such as Luxembourg are, in fact, a tax haven in the middle of the European Union. And most formal tax havens, such as the famous Cayman Islands, stand on the colonial territories of EU Member States. The EU is looking at this calmly without anyone being alerted to tax and social dumping as a result. On the other hand, legislation, including the Slovenian Employment Act, poses high barriers to people seeking a better life. The vast majority cannot afford to work on time, so they do not meet the basic requirement for legal residence in Slovenia. Those who manage to find a job are tied to the same employer for years. In recent months we have been able to monitor the tragic fate of Bosnian workers of Slovenian companies in Germany, and years ago we have witnessed the stories of workers who built TES 6, Stožice, motorways and other major construction projects before the crisis, or carried out so-called port services in Luka Koper. Many of them have been forced to take terrible advantage of one employee, one employer, and some of them have literally slept in chickens. This type of migrant holiday work was created shortly after the break-up of Yugoslavia and forced by the displaced inhabitants and other citizens of the republics of the former Yugoslavia in Slovenia to provide a legal basis for their stay here. This concept, that the worker is first dependent on one employer, is so rooted that it cannot be rectified by the amendments to this law, so we simply could not table such an amendment. However, this law, which we now have before us today, can correct at least two other errors in the law, namely, for the first time an unjustifiable distinction between the workers on the basis of education, and for the second time. criminalisation of workers who violate this law due to economic coercion. First, about education. The government has drafted this law on the basis of an economic migration strategy, which is unfortunately based on wrong assumptions. This law also favours foreign workers with higher education in obtaining permits, although we all know that in Slovenia there is a chronic shortage of professional profiles and craftsmen, and on the other hand we have a host of domestic unemployed lawyers, economists and other sociologists and people with higher education. The logic of favouring higher education workers went even so far as to become absurd. The law, for example, prohibits short-term employment because it is intended to increase the possibility of illegal exploitation and requires the law to verify that the employer is even financially able to employ before issuing. But these two guards only apply to professional education profiles or less. However, those profiles with higher education do not apply because the law apparently still breeds the surviving prejudice that college-educated workers cannot be exploited. In addition, the law provides for high penalties for workers who work without consent or with consent, which has been issued for another type of work. In the relationship between work and capital, the worker is the weaker side. Unauthorised work is primarily the responsibility of employers and contracting authorities, and from this point of view the punishment of workers is absolutely too severe. A worker who is forced to work without consent gets a two-year ban on working in Slovenia and is fined between 500 and 5,000 euros. This is, given the number of officials in Slovenia with counterfeit diplomas, nicely said hypocritical. In the United Left, we tied support to the law to support our amendments. Given that they have not already been accepted on the committee, we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u41	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u42	Your Honor! The proposal for a law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners brings some technical improvements to the procedure for obtaining residence permits and work permits and, on the other hand, substantive changes in the field. The procedure for obtaining a residence permit and working permit shall be simplified. The so-called uniform residence and work permit shall be applied. This brings European legislation to Slovenia's legal order. For these procedures, the principle of All is introduced in one place, meaning that a foreigner or his employer submits a single application for a single authorisation. The competent authority for the resolution of applications and the management of procedures or the single entry point shall be the administrative unit, with the exception of the seasonal work permits, which shall continue to be submitted to the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The law lays down the conditions for the issue of the consent of the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia and the uniform forms of licences are still laid down by the Foreigners Act. The bill preserves the level of protection of the rights of foreign workers at the same level as the law in force so far. The conditions are being introduced for foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia to be employed only for full-time and no longer for less than full-time employment. This is justified by the applicant’s finding that, in the past period, in practice, it has been shown that employers have often unduly reduced their working hours to a shorter working time, depending on their job or have subsequently forced foreign workers to sign the shorter working hours contract in order to protect themselves for shorter working hours. Indirectly this represented lower costs for the employer. Workers, however, continued to work full - time and thus received part of their earnings paid in cash or in some other way. Self-employment of foreigners is completely new and the entire prior procedure for self-employment of foreigners is abolished. In view of the fact that a foreigner may be employed as a self-employed individual only after a one-year stay in the Republic of Slovenia, the applicant has decided that the additional condition of carrying out the economic activity of foreigners is no longer meaningful or necessary. We Christian Democrats are advocating simple procedures, so we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u43	The word shall be given by the Allied Parliamentary Group, for which the Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Hello again! In fact, it is not possible to oppose the proposed law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners, at least not categorically. The proposal for a law was created as a result of a new regulation or adaptation of the employment and work of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia to the provisions of the Aliens Act, which, on the basis of the transposition of the European Directive, introduces the concept of a single residence permit and a new work to be issued in a single procedure in administrative units. A so-called principle is introduced All in one place for all foreigners who will apply for a residence permit for employment or work, and in addition, a single permit will be available to foreigners for the purpose of performing seasonal work, performing work as a self-employed person or for the cross-border provision of services as posted workers. Third-country nationals who have come to Slovenia for employment, self-employment or work will no longer need two permits, as a single permit will replace both the residence permit and the work permit. The exception is only a seasonal work permit for a period of up to three months. We do not oppose such simplifications in the Alliance's Group of Members. It is even more difficult to oppose solutions supported and agreed by social dialogue both by employers and employees. Neither does the State Council oppose the proposal. However, we agree with the United Left Group, which has again, as in the case of the competent working body, tabled amendments to the adoption. This is how we decided in the Alliance's Group to support the amendments to Articles 14, 16 and 51. We believe that the distinction between workers in terms of education and those without education and education is not justified, especially if the conditions for obtaining a work permit for workers without education are more acute, and even though it is known that these workers are more at risk of exploitation in relation to their current practice. The continuation of the amendment to Article 14 is also fully acceptable and supported for our Group of Members. The proposed replacement of higher education with secondary and vocational education in cases where education is a condition for obtaining authorisation consent is justified in our opinion. If foreign higher education in the territory of Slovenia indicates the connection of such a foreigner with Slovenia and its involvement in Slovenian society, we believe that the same is true for foreign secondary education. Therefore, the difference in this place does not seem necessary or meaningful. We also agree with the amendments that the range of criminal provisions in the treatment of workers for work is somewhat excessive and disproportionate to other provisions or similar laws. That is also why we will support the proposed amendment. In our parliamentary group, we support the proposal for a law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners. We certainly agree that greater legal protection for workers is essential. However, it may not be possible to think too much about the preparation of measures to improve the protection of workers, domestic and foreign workers sent by Slovenian employers, as we have already witnessed various stories abroad about the exploitation, non-payment of work and the offer of unworthy living conditions. In the parliamentary group, as announced, we will support the bill as well as all the three amendments tabled by the United Left Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u45	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, President. Honorable representative of the Government, secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on employment and self-employment and the work of foreigners raises and answers to some professional and political questions. For the last few years in Slovenia, we have been facing evicting the working population, regulating the employment of foreigners, providing greater protection and preventing the exploitation of workers and migrants, and removing administrative barriers to the employment of both citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and third-country nationals. Some questions are answered by the bill and some other questions will need to be answered within the migration policy and measures to reduce the relationship between the active and the maintenance population in the future. The last scratch has shown that we need a new law for the employment and work of foreigners. In addition to simplifying the procedures for obtaining licences and reducing the possibility of abuse, the proposal for a law brings novelty in the field of foreign law, resulting from the European Directive on a Single Application Procedure for a Single Authorisation. This is a single licence to be issued at single entry points in administrative units. Foreigners who have come to Slovenia for employment, self-employment or work will no longer have to obtain two permits that lasted twice as long and cost at least twice as much. In doing so, we see an important step towards the administrative unloading of both state authorities and individuals who want to live and work in Slovenia and employers. An important novelty introduced by the proposal for a law is the distinction between forms and procedures for issuing or extending uniform licences as provided for by the Foreigners Act and the conditions for giving different types of consent to the Employment Office for the issuing of uniform licences. In addition, it should be pointed out that the proposal provides greater protection for foreigners, since they are, after all, one of the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. There are new rules on self-employment of foreigners, leaving some additional conditions out of the current legislation. It introduces a new full-time employment obligation for a foreigner, removes the mandatory publication of a job, enables faster information and directly from databases instead of the current long-term retrieval of data to be sought, and introduces a quota of consent to issue a single employment permit and a quota of work permits for seasonal work that will limit the number of foreigners on the labour market. Finally, it is important to mention the higher penalties imposed by the proposal for a law on infringements aimed at ensuring consistent compliance with the legal provisions and restrictions on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners. The bill is a good and consistent follow-up to the principle of equal treatment of foreign and domestic workers in relation to working conditions, while maintaining the priority of employment of domestic unemployed persons over the employment of foreigners. As with most of the changes in the employment of foreigners so far, we also recognize a significant achievement in the field under consideration, although we allow for derogations in the implementation of the legal provisions, as only practice will show the extent of potential shortcomings. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u47	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u48	Your Honor! We note from the Slovenian Democratic Party that the proposal for a law follows the amendments to the Foreigners Act 2014 and Directive 2011/98/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on a uniform procedure for the processing of applications for uniform licences for third-country nationals for residence and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for workers from third countries legally residing in a Member State. The bill seeks to achieve the so-called principle All in one place for all foreigners who will apply for a residence permit for employment or work and, in addition, foreigners will be allowed to perform seasonal work, to perform work as self-employed persons for the cross-border provision of services as posted workers. These categories are not included in the scope of the Directive. Therefore, foreigners, third-country nationals will be granted a residence permit and a work permit in the form of a card. In this law, there is positive news that a worker will only be able to work full-time, which will provide a worker with greater social security and thus prevent abuse in this area. The bill introduces new evidence of the employer's business activity, which in practice caused problems. After a new activity, the employer will be shown by the temporary employment of the worker or the compulsory social security of the natural person registered for carrying out the activity and by the exchange of information on inflows to the employer’s transaction account between the ZRSZ and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Similarly, the proposal for a law to the majority owners of companies no longer allows employment under the conditions laid down for the operation of a job without market control, as it is intended to prevent the apparent establishment of companies solely because of the possibility of obtaining a permit to enter and reside in the Republic of Slovenia. This law was also addressed by the Economic and Social Council and adopted unanimously, which means that the law is also compatible with the social partners. The bill therefore brings news towards a reduction of bureaucratic procedures, which we consider good in the Slovenian Democratic Party. At the same time, we would point out the worrying fact that this bill is the only law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so far, which reduces bureaucracy in the economy in the employment or conduct of independent activities, but only for foreigners. Given that economic indicators are improving due to the situation in the European Community, we would expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to finally adopt or propose measures that will also allow for faster employment of domestic workers and workers and measures that will reduce labour costs. Because of some good solutions in this law, we will not oppose the adoption of this law by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose laws or measures that will burden domestic workers and employers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u49	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u50	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me briefly to present to you the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners. As we know, the number of foreign workers in Slovenia is falling or shrinking since the outbreak of the crisis. After receiving a work permit in 2013, over 21,000 foreigners received a green light for work last year, only 17,000 and several beneficiaries. In 2008, licences for foreigners were issued in excess of 88 000. Notwithstanding this data, which thus indicates a decrease in the employment of workers from third countries in the Republic of Slovenia, this does not mean that this area does not need to be upgraded and improved, as we face daily serious infringements of the rules governing the obligations and rights of foreigners both as regards our residence and fundamental labour and social rights. The latter are particularly vulnerable to this personal situation in relation to employers and are much more vulnerable to them in a subordinate and weaker situation than domestic labour. The law, which is on our hands, pursues a number of goals. First of all, it is to comply with the so-called foreign law or foreign law, and the following assumptions are essential. It is a concept of a single work permit, where both residence permit and work permit are common in one place, as well as the principle or concept of the so-called VEM — All in one place. As a result, foreigners will obtain a permit to stay and work more quickly in a single procedure. Supposedly, we want, let's hope so, within 30 days of the perfect role. The next key point of this bill is that it brings greater legal and, consequently, social security to all those who will work with us. Thus, third-country nationals can only be employed for full-time employment, as proposed by law. The draft law also regulates the pressing issue of the non-application of foreigners to social security. The novelty is also an additional way to demonstrate the employer's active business, which undoubtedly also has a positive impact on the protection of the labour force. When we talk about greater legal certainty, it is also important that sanctions for infringements are properly imposed, let us hope that they are proportionate, so that they already have a preventive effect, so against potential offenders they act dissuasively. Your Honor! Although it is more or less about the implementation of the law on foreigners, we welcome the proposal for a law in the Desus Group, since by unifying procedures, eliminating administrative problems and could also list them, we follow the principle of economics in terms of time and financial resources, and by eliminating administrative barriers we contribute positively to the burden of both individual and economy, not least of all public administrations. Let me get this straight. The concept of a single authorisation, the principle of VEM – All in one place and monitoring the consistency or coherence of the economic migration strategy, are the main reasons that translate us into this sense that this law must be absolutely supported and implemented consistently. What may be even more important, with all the above mentioned, is that we provide all the workers who will work with us with greater legal and social security on the one hand, as regards workers, as far as the country is concerned, but it is in the interest of the Slovenian labour market that we employ those professions that are deficient, i.e. those that we really want and need in the Republic of Slovenia. All the reasons given are those which mean that we will unanimously support the law in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u51	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u52	Dear Mr President, Government Representative, colleague and colleague. We have before us a new law that will be more transparent in accordance with the provisions of the European Directive, and in particular easier to regulate employment, self-employment and work for foreigners. By combining the separate procedures for obtaining a residence permit and obtaining a work permit into the process of obtaining a single residence permit and work, the procedure for obtaining a permit will be shorter and simpler in the future, and significantly cheaper for the employer. The new law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners therefore introduces the principle of All in One Place, by introducing a single residence permit and a work permit to be issued by an administrative unit in the form of a card. The exception will be a seasonal work permit, which remains the only current work permit and will be issued by the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill preserves all forms of employment and work of foreigners, which are already made possible by existing legislation, by tightening procedures in some areas and simplifying procedures in others. The proposed law thus provides for more solutions to prevent abuses that have been detected in the past. One of the most important innovations is the provision whereby foreigners can only be employed for full-time employment, which will ensure greater social security for foreign employees and at the same time prevent frequent abuses in this area. In addition, the abuse of the supposed establishment of companies will be prevented by tightening the conditions for the approval of the Employment Office for the purpose of business representation. A legal condition is introduced that a foreigner can only be employed as a sole entrepreneur after a one-year stay in the Republic of Slovenia. One of the innovations is also the additional ways to prove the employer's business activity, which in practice also caused difficulties. The bill also foresees some minor changes that address perceived problems in practice. As with the current law, the proposal of the new law in a comparable way solves the problem of non-application of foreigners to social security, as the whole law intertwines with provisions which oblige employers to settle all tax obligations to the State, which is a novelty compared to the current law, when only the payment of taxes and contributions on employment has been verified. Migrant workers are among the more vulnerable groups of the labour population, as they are fundamentally less protected than domestic workers, so we welcome the proposed solutions, which are crucial, that the legislation is as much averting the system's identified abuses in this area as we have often witnessed in the past. On the basis of all of this, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u53	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 May. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. As usual, at the time of our first amendment, I will comment, withdraw and justify the entire set of our amendments. Foreign legislation is a sad reflection of the relationship between labour and capital in the European Union. On the one hand, we have a free flow of capital, which is completely untouchable, but on the other hand we have a free movement of labour, so to speak, movement, movement of people who run from violence, exploitation and lack, but this is limited in all possible and impossible ways. We need to ask ourselves a question here, a fundamental question, where the cause of the poor economic situation in Slovenia, for example, as well as in Bosnia and Herzegovina, from which it comes, say, the vast majority of migrant workers in our country. Is the reason for this bad situation hidden in the free movement of people or hiding in the free movement of capital? This question, I think we all know, is completely rhetorical. I think we all know that it was not foreign workers who were responsible for credit overheating the Slovenian economy between 2005 and 2008. It was also not the migrant workers who were responsible for a completely flawed European policy to deal with the economic crisis. There's a problem here on the capital side, and there's no way on the labor side. The basis for the law before us is the five-year-old economic migration strategy, which is based on completely wrong assumptions. Let me just get into two points. First of all, it's kind of an idea for foreign workers to eat the work of domestic workers. Of course it doesn't. This assumption is completely groundless, first of all at a completely conceptual level, not one worker but another worker's problem, but the relationship between work and capital. At the same time that the rich are rich and infinitely rich, and when the vast majority of people have fewer and fewer, it is very clear that the real problem is in the total social primacy of capital, not in any competition of domestic workers or foreign workers. Furthermore, this assumption does not hold up in fact. Foreign workers in our country primarily fill the needs of work that domestic workers do not want to do because of their poor wages, because of their exploitation, due to difficult working conditions. Here we can look across the border, for example in Germany, which introduced a seven-year employment limit when new members enter the European Union family in 2004. This restriction expired in 2011. In 2010, so one year before these restrictions were released, 7% of the working population in Germany were unemployed. The following year, when these restrictions were released, this unemployment fell to 5.8% last year to 5%. Let me mention here that this is a survey of unemployment, which covers all jobs, including those of a penal nature. This is a very clear, practical, empirical example, which shows that migrant workers do not take the job of domestic workers. If we move on here. Every year in Slovenia there are at least 10,000 posted workers, only Croatian citizens were 4 000 200 last year. Slovenia, on the one hand, restricts the work of people who want to work in Slovenian companies and, on the other hand, must not hinder the free movement of services provided by foreign companies with posted workers. Of course, as we have often been used to it, the government will here plead against the European directives. But it is these European directives that are part of the problem. The European directives are very clear about favouring capital across the board. These directives were also endorsed by Slovenian ministers, the Slovenian Presidents of the governments, and are involved and co-responsible in this situation. However, as a country, we have some maneuverable space. If the conditions for working in Slovenia were eased, a large part of posted workers could work directly for employers. The alleged competition of Slovenian workers, as may already be shown, would not increase in any way, but would therefore improve the situation of foreign workers. This is a framework from which we have drawn up three amendments in this context in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u55	Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you, President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! Today, we have heard a lot about acquisitions concerning the employment and self-employment of foreigners. In particular, we can say that these amended rules also in some way make it easier for foreigners to work, as they make procedures much easier. They're faster, and they're cheaper. Above all, it is aimed at ensuring that foreigners and our workers have essentially equal conditions as regards labour law. Of course, the characteristics of our labour market are taken into account by giving priority to domestic unemployed persons compared to foreign workers. Above all, I consider that there is great emphasis and progress on the protection of workers. We've heard before that foreign workers are somehow tied to one employer. I must point out here that it is this amended law that removes this, namely, that now the uniform permit to work and stay connected to a person and thus is no longer linked to the employer and can be adequately protected. We also see that it is impossible to establish imaginary companies, that workers must be employed full-time, that this gives them much protection and that employers must prove their work activity, business activity, which all indicates that this law has taken a major step forward in terms of greater protection for workers. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would stress that the law has been dealt with by all social partners, by real employers and employees, it has also been dealt with in the Economic and Social Council and has received unanimous support everywhere. The law as it is, I think it's necessary to confirm and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u57	I'm asking you again for your application.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u58	I give my word to Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the amendments proposed by the United Left will not be supported because we are convinced that the law itself, as it is prepared, adequately addresses this issue. We also made it very clear in the position of the Group of Members that it would be necessary and necessary for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the coalition, to approach this and to do much more in the field of protection of the interests of Slovenian workers and Slovenian employers. At this point, the government has done nothing. We are not against solving the problem when it comes to workers who come to work as migrants to Slovenia, but I think it is primarily the task of taking care of the 120 000 unemployed that we have here in our own country. I think it would be right for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this area to really harness its power and seek appropriate measures to help resolve this problematic situation that we have in our country. There were also quite a few things said where there is a reason for the poor economic situation in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that everyone sitting in this House, just like the government, like all Members and Members sitting here, knows exactly where he is hiding. I'll just count a few things. According to my assessment and assessment, the Slovenian Democratic Party is hiding in the greed of individuals, in the place where greed has taken place in that country, in the absence of part of the judicial branch of power, in the places where these hidden networks are located in that country, and then in the attempt to prevent the operation of the labour market by continuous political interference, or in the interference of policies in state-owned enterprises which should be market-oriented, they cannot, due to the interference of policies that do not allow them to operate on the market. As long as we operate in this way, I must first and foremost draw attention to the left hand in this country, all through trying to stop with all my instruments the way of normal market functioning of the economy in our country, because it convinces that state-owned companies can function in a non-political manner, as businesses do in highly developed countries of the European Union. As long as we do this, we need to continue to know that in the majority share we are ourselves responsible for the situation in this country. In this way, we cannot expect employment to increase in this country, that this country will be on the road from this crisis, from which we cannot possibly because of these political networks and this policy pressure on state-owned enterprises to operate marketably. I don't think there's anyone in this national council or on the government's side who hasn't been aware of it yet. We're gonna have to break up with that one day. And only then will we be able to say that we are willing to do something for our workers, for our employers and for our common good in this country. This is what I expect of all those who sit in this House. Not politics, politics. In particular, I see here the problem of the United Left, which comes with some popular suggestions, but when you look at the matter more broadly, you find that they simply do not work out. It is not possible to propose solutions that are not harmonised in the social agreement. Such solutions can be proposed, but all segments, all those linked to a common solution, must be taken into account here. All must be taken into account and only in this way can we count on any step in this area. A step in the best interests of everyone and everyone. We have to be aware of that. We cannot solve certain problems that concern all of us and each of us, in a selective way, in such a way that we approach with some short-term solutions that have no long-term positive impact. I think that any law we adopt in the National Assembly, we must first of all be aware of the need to create appropriate conditions that will include all the groups, all of us living in this country, including those who come to this country to work so that they have truly the right conditions for normal functioning. But the fact is, as I said at the outset, that our primary task now is to find work for our 120 or 130 thousand unemployed first. This should be the primary task of each and every one of us. And we should fight for it, we should take care of it. Why don't you go to the employment office and see what these people tell you? Please and I expect from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and from all political parties, no matter what color it is, to invest all our energy in this and with common strength we try to move forward and do what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia expect of us. It's not like we're trying to push the ball on one, the other, the third, when someone led the government, when the economy overheated and I don't know what we're listening to in Parliament. What has happened in the past cannot be changed. History cannot be changed. The fact is that we have been called to this Parliament now and now it is our responsibility to resolve the problems ahead, the present and the problems of our future together. I think that's the key. Once we focus on this, I think we have an opportunity for all political parties in the National Assembly to find a common compromise that ties us together with responsibility for citizens and citizens. If we think like this, believe me, we will stop arguing in the National Assembly and start thinking in the direction citizens and citizens expect us to think. I hope this moment comes as soon as possible, because this is our common victory. Not my victory, not someone from the SMC or the United Left, it's our common victory. And we have to follow that. That is why I expect us to invest as much energy as possible and everything we have at our disposal in going this way. This is what the Slovenian people and the 120 or 130 thousand unemployed expect of us on the one hand, so many and so many companies that are on the verge of survival, because we have done nothing for them to function normally in this acute financial and social crisis. Dear colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I invite you to maximize your involvement on this subject and on this page to find solutions for these people in the first place. Then we can say that we are a Parliament that cares and works for our citizens and citizens, regardless of who the party is from, I am warning. Let us stop arguing about who belongs to which party, but let us work together! We live in the same country and we are aware of the same problems, and I hope that we are so capable of finding a political compromise that we are also going on the road that will be the best for our country and will enrich each of us sitting here, as well as every citizen and citizen who is now following us through television screens, how we are talking here and how we are looking for certain solutions for our future together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I think it's a completely commercially correct replica. When mentioning the likeness of the United Left performances, the debater also mentioned normal market activity in the same breath. I would just like to mention that this normal market operation is precisely the action that triggered this economic crisis. And the task of the United Left is just to make it an alternative. It's not a naked likeness, it's a concrete ideological alternative to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u63	If we are to return to the subject we are discussing, allow me to present our three amendments. Amendment to Article 14. This Article lays down the conditions for obtaining a consent corresponding to the current personal work permit. Such consent shall be given for three years and shall allow the worker to work with any employer. This means that it is practically equal to citizens, including when receiving unemployment benefits. In fact, it is only through this agreement that the worker gets all the labour rights. The current law distinguishes between workers with vocational and higher education. They may obtain this consent if they have been employed or self-employed in Slovenia for at least 20 months in the last 24 months. For uneducated workers, the condition is stricter, 30 months in the last three years. The Government notes in its explanatory statement that workers obtained national professional qualifications only to obtain a work permit. The proposed solution does not address this problem, but still forces workers into controversial practices. If someone works at construction sites 10 hours a day and all weekends and all holidays, they don't have time for normal education. At the same time, they are workers who are mostly illegally exploited, so it is necessary to leave the senseless distinction and be subject to the same condition for all. The second part of the amendment concerns persons who have completed their education in Slovenia. The government gives priority to those with higher education, because, as it is said, it is based on a very bad presentation about the job offer in Slovenia, and in particular it does not take into account the life ties that a foreigner has with us, which he has studied with Slovenia. Someone who has been educated here for three or four years has already become an integral part of society and is dependent on it. From the point of view of this addiction, it doesn't matter whether he graduated from college or maybe high school or vocational school. Therefore, we propose that personal work permits be granted to all who have completed at least vocational or secondary school in Slovenia in the last two years. Amendment to Article 16. This law allows the employment of foreigners only for full-time work because practice has shown that employers often employ and pay workers for shorter working hours and then work full-time. The proposal provides for an exception to this safeguard, namely that workers with higher education may also be employed for shorter working hours. We delete this exception because there is also a need to protect higher education workers from illegal exploitation. And the amendment to 51. A member. In the United Left, we propose to ease the penalties for workers performing work for which no agreement has been given. At the principle level, we reject the prejudice that foreign workers consume the work of Slovenia and thereby increase unemployment. On a purely practical level, there is double punishment. Such a worker receives a two-year work ban on the basis of Article 42, while being punished with a fine ranging from EUR 500 to EUR 5,000. The minimum penalty is practically equal to the minimum wage in Slovenia, which is absolutely too much. Measures against black work should aim at employers and also at contracting authorities. This law has completely ignored the responsibility of the contracting authorities, and that is what I would like to compensate for by double punishing workers, which is totally unacceptable. We therefore propose that the penalty be reduced from 500 to 5,000 euros to 100,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. I will focus on the Employment, Self-Employment and Work of Foreigners Act, not on tax havens, as my colleague Luka Mesec did. This law, which is supposed to be spoken of today, I believe is well-intentioned. It is true and I agree that practice always points to some shortcomings, and it will undoubtedly do so this time. At this point, however, I personally see no argument as to why we would not actually adopt this law. Let me just point out a few key points. The law allows for equal treatment of both foreign and domestic workers. Of course, the priority of employment is domestic unemployed persons, which is why I do not agree with my colleague Pojbič, who says that the government has done nothing and does nothing in this area. It introduces simplification of licensing procedures and also reduces the possibility of abuse. It brings lower costs, which are always incurred in issuing licences, from 150 to 60 euros. It is also important that workers can only be employed full-time. The data will be obtained after official duty by means of an examination of individual records and the law also provides for higher penalties for offenders. As a matter of fact, the purpose of marriage is good. It is supported by the State Council, is in line with the Economic and Social Council, the Comments of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, the Association of Employers, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the Agricultural Forestry Chambers have been taken into account, so that it certainly brings positive changes to both workers and employers, so I will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Pogačnik, Secretary of State, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Government, allow me to briefly explain the Government's views on the proposed amendments by the United Left Group. First, to the amendment to Article 14. As the proposer of the amendment, the exceptions to the general procedure for issuing a uniform working permit are correctly identified in Article 14. Why are these exceptions fixed? Because for these certain categories it is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to have easier access to our labour market in accordance with the economic migration strategy. With the proposed amendment, you are extending this exception to other categories of workers, which is contrary to the economic migration strategy alone. When issuing a single work permit, there is always a control of the labour market, saying whether we have enough or not for our workers to work for which a uniform work permit is required. With your proposal, we would extend the range of beneficiaries to issue this simpler process of consent to work and thus would not allow the institution to verify the situation on the Slovenian labour market for non-educational professions. With regard to the amendment to Article 16, where the United Left Group proposes that the deletion of the provision under which higher education may also be granted employment contracts with shorter working hours than full time should be made, I must say that the Government opposes this amendment. Article 16 is intended to prevent abuses occurring today in the Slovenian labour market, when a foreigner is granted a work permit, is issued for full-time work, the employer declares it for a shorter working time than full-time, and this worker is actually doing more than full-time work, and is registered for social insurance and a contract of employment and regular pay for a shorter working time than full-time. Thus, the purpose of this provision is to prevent abuses that are taking place today, while at the same time allowing for higher education staff to work even with shorter working hours, since we assume that abuse cannot occur to such an extent. As regards the proposal to reduce the sanction to Article 51. In this case, there is one fundamental breach of the system of obtaining work permits. A work permit is always issued for a certain type of work, our labour market is controlled or we are short of our staff and then we issue a work permit to a foreigner. In this case it is an abuse, the worker is doing a job for which the work permit has not been issued, but of course the sanction is set within the range and the inspector who gives the fine will always judge and normally even the minimum penalty at the first review. Finally, to highlight what has been said several times today, the bill is fully harmonised in the Economic and Social Council, it has the consent of employers, because it simplifies their procedures, removes administrative obstacles and, on the other hand, has the support of trade unions, because it provides much more legal security for foreigners, migrant workers in the Republic of Slovenia compared to the current regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on Article 14. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 16. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the trade law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government, no representative of the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Mariti Guček Zakošek. [[She's not here.]] Good. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Matthew Tonin, will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats. [[He's not here.]] Mrs Maruša Škopac will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, chairman. The current Trade Act provides that, in addition to the minimum technical conditions, the conditions relating to the minimum level of education for certain typical trade professions must also be met in order to carry out trade activities. In this way, at least secondary vocational education has been completed for the seller and at least secondary vocational education or general secondary education has been completed for the commercial manager. The project for the renovation of regulated professions and activities is included among the key projects of the government project office as the 10th key strategic and cross-cutting project aimed at reducing regulation. In addition, the coalition partners have also committed themselves to measures to reduce administrative barriers in all areas in the coalition contract. In February of this year, an analysis was made of the effects of the changes caused by the deregulation of the trade and trade management profession. The analysis found that Slovenia is third in the European Union by number of regulated professions among Member States. There are only 396 regulated professions among the members of the European Union, and 347 Polish professions. The analysis also showed that Slovenia is the only member of the European Union to set a minimum level of education for the profession of traders and commercial operators and that there are not sufficient arguments for regulating trade professions, since the exercise of these professions does not have a significant impact on health, public order, public safety and environmental protection. In doing so, it should be stressed that deregulation of the profession is not the same as deregulation of the activity and that deregulation of the profession does not mean that a non-professional trader will be able to sell us, for example, plant protection products, medicines without a prescription or, for example, medical devices. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to deregulation of the two professions already mentioned. In the view of the Modern Centre Group, which supports the proposal, the novelty will contribute to greater flexibility in job search and employment and easier access to the industry, which increases opportunities for self-employment and social entrepreneurship. Above all, new business opportunities and challenges will also be opened for many unemployed people with already acquired knowledge, skills and experience, as they will then be allowed to open their own store. This is particularly important for small family businesses, including in remote areas where flexibility in employment is important even for their own existence. In addition, the amendment of the law constitutes an equalisation of the conditions for carrying out trade activities within the framework of the European Union, since, as has already been said, none of the Member States has the required minimum level of education. The novel will bring advantages both for workers and for employers. An important advantage for workers is the greater possibility of moving forward within an enterprise that can be based on acquired knowledge and work experience. This will enable the manager to become someone with long experience, for whom the employer will assess that the job is capable of doing good and responsible work. Today, this cannot be done without retraining and additional education costs. On the other hand, employers will benefit from a wider range of people, among whom they will be able to choose a suitable candidate for the job. The United Left Group's claim that deregulation leads to a worse situation for employees because it puts them in a tight competitive position, which means they must be willing to work for a smaller payment and agree to smaller labour rights, of course, it does not. Nor does it argue that the proposal is inconsistent with the social partners. Let me make it clear that in the collective contract of trade activities of Slovenia, it is expressly stated that the seller must be classified in at least the fourth tariff class and in the minimum of the fifth tariff class, regardless of education, knowledge and work experience. This obligation applies to all, including smaller employers, and the collective agreement is the result of a consensus reached between the two social partners. For all of this we will, of course, support the proposal for a new trade law in the Modern Centre Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much. There is no Mr. Franco Beznik. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law deregulation of the profession of seller and commercial manager for which a minimum level of education is prescribed. The debate so far has raised a number of concerns against the adoption of the amendment of the law, as well as a number of reasons. In the Desus Group, we have found that we are in favour of a bill of various opinions, so we will vote in favour of this law according to our conscience. The proposal for a law states that no Member State in the European Union has rules governing the level of education for trade activities and therefore the proposed regulation constitutes an equalisation of the conditions for carrying out this activity in the EU. The Republic of Slovenia is also one of those countries with the highest number of regulated professions or activities. Regulation without a really justified reason constitutes unnecessary administrative obstacles and therefore one of the main objectives of the proposal is to allow easier access to activities that would encourage employment and self-employment. This should open up new business opportunities and challenges for many unemployed people with already acquired knowledge, skills and experience. This seems particularly important to us in the Desus Group for small family businesses, even in remote areas where flexibility in employment is important even for their own existence. However, a significant impact is also expected on the position of employees in trade, as this will enable them to make progress without pre-compliance with the legal condition that they must acquire an additional level of education during their work experience. Equal conditions should also be allowed in relation to foreign business entities, in particular in border areas where there is no need to meet educational conditions in the provision of cross-border services in the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are concerned that these changes in the future would reduce the quality of trade services and consequently the safety and health of consumers, which could ultimately lead to an increase in the number of failed small businesses and unemployment among traders. We fear repetitions of poor hospitality practices where deregulation has led to a deterioration in the level of services. We are also being asked whether the proposed solutions to the long-term deregulation of the profession will cause damage to the educational system. What does this mean for commercial schools, can we expect the closing of commercial schools, and can this measure be followed by the so-called domino effect of further regulation of professions? However, in the fear that this would lead to a reduction in the protection of workers' rights, it should be noted that the basis for the amendment of the law was an agreement between the signatories to the Collective Contract for the Activities of Trade in Slovenia, which, inter alia, sets the seller of classifications into at least the fourth tariff class and provides the trader with at least the fifth tariff class, irrespective of education, knowledge and work experience. So, as has already been said, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we will vote each in our conscience because of different opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u73	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and the honourable proposalant in absentia. We Social Democrats have committed ourselves to, inter alia, a coalition treaty to a deliberate deregulation, where necessary, and to creating a positive business environment, as this is the basis for development and the necessity of economic growth. In this case, it is extremely difficult to conclude that this proposal would follow such arguments or such objectives. We can already find that the current regulation of the Minimum Level of Education Regulation for the conduct of commercial activities deregulation of the professional standard but does not deregulation of the educational system. The latter means that it is no longer necessary for the person concerned to have a commercial school or trading profession to carry out the work of the manager. However, it is important that it has an appropriate level of education, which, hand to heart, is not excessively high. The key point is that professional deregulation in this case is deliberately or erroneously replaced by education. This is only dangerous for one reason – because it is tried to explain it with a simple argument that its regulation replaces a collective agreement, which is only valid for another year. At present, social dumping is hampered by the appropriate regulation of an educational non-professional standard, price dumping in the labour market is, of course, prevented and, above all, prevented from being pushed to the side by the weakest and making existing living situations even more difficult for them. Therefore, the objective cannot be within the sector that generates added value in its core and whose profit depends on the creation of added value on the basis of human work, lower skills, less skills, less knowledge and less competence. While, valued colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about this regulation deregulation of primary education, secondary education is required according to the existing standard. Thus, a 100 % deregulation of education means that a 15-year-old person, without any education, can work as a manager and perform the most demanding tasks that follow from this function or profession. Whether you accept it or not as consumers, of course you will decide for yourself. We are of the opinion that a successful trade in which more than 100,000 citizens and citizens are employed requires qualified, qualified personnel who will be able to create high added value, which we can only do if we also provide an adequate educational standard. The deregulation of a professional already in force means that in trades in the Republic of Slovenia today, those who are not traders can also work, which means forestry, technology, sociologists; in short, whatever enables the employer to pursue the goal of creating high added value and ensuring profits. What is a key error or an unintentional lie in explaining why deregulation is important is that no trade profession or trade is regulated anywhere in the European Union. This means a lack of knowledge of the apprenticeship system, which, for example, has been established in neighbouring Austrians or in many very numbered Germans. This means that without the apprenticeship examination, which is otherwise sectorally regulated, it is not possible to carry out the profession of trader. Furthermore, it should be noted that the law is not harmonised or that the proposal for a regulation is not in line with the social partners. He is opposed by representative unions, opposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Therefore, representatives of those small family economies, which are so crucial for creating added value and growth of the Slovenian economy. Social Democrats, on the fact that there is no support for social partners, both employers and trade unions, and on the fact that it is an reckless deregulation, we will not support the proposal for a regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u75	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left yesterday, at the beginning of this regular meeting of the National Assembly, we proposed the withdrawal of this law, which is before us, the Trade Act, which will deregulation of trade professions. We have pointed out that deregulation is harmful from different perspectives. Firstly, it is harmful for workers and workers because it places them in a tight competitive position in the labour market, meaning they will have to be willing to work more for less pay and will be forced to agree to smaller social rights. Secondly, deregulation is harmful for consumers, as the quality of trade services is therefore declining – we see good examples in the restaurant. Thirdly, it is harmful for small and medium-sized traders because they will not be able to withstand the pressures of the biggest trading chains. Fourthly, deregulation is harmful for the school system and education at all, as it evaluates the education and education acquired as a goal on its own. Fifthly, deregulation is harmful to the development of the whole country, as trade is entangled in a wider network than agriculture through industry, the school system and social rights. Deregulation therefore brings social dumping and constitutes an attack on the well-being of most people. The withdrawal of the point was proposed because this legal amendment was opposed by almost everyone who was directly or indirectly affected by the deregulation and because the draft law was not in line with the social partners and because at the hearing Minister Restorationšek did not understand at all what change was being made. Moreover, he actually stated to all the critics who had pointed out this, because he said, quote: "We are talking about the fourth and fifth levels of education that remain. Talking about a complete non-educational approach in this area is, I don't know, inappropriate." End of quote. However, it is in the law proposed by Minister Pozvalšek's department that this is precisely the case: the abolition of the condition in the fourth. and the fifth level of education. Yesterday, on our proposal to withdraw the law, the Ministry repeated its intentional or unintentional footnotes on the removal of administrative barriers. At the same time, in the United Left, we wonder what the administrative obstacle is, however, to human education. He reiterated his remarks that there are no such rules in the European Union as my predecessor has already warned, which he does not hold back, because there are many different mechanisms, such as the apprenticeship system, and the ministry has repeated the flexibility and flexibility of family businesses, as it is now that we do not have the highest level of feed safety among young people in the European Union and as if there would already be a sufficient erosion of social rights with us. If we look at the deregulation of the trade profession with a slightly broader perspective, we see very clearly how different interests of different classes and groups affect the adoption of legislation. They strongly support the amendment in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which, of course, represents mainly the interests of large traders, i.e. trading chains, which control a good part of the activity, and it is opposed by virtually everyone else: representatives of trade unions from different centres, representatives of small traders, representatives of middle traders, Chamber of Commerce. On the one hand, we have representatives of large capital and on the other hand small entrepreneurs and workers and workers and craftsmen. But there is another key factor missing in this equation, and this is the country. In this conflict, the state should mediate as a shareholder, which mediates between organised work and capital. And a country considered to be social should intervene by representing and protecting the weaker side, i.e. the interests of the majority who oppose the law, workers and workers, traders and craftsmen. Just a change of legislation decided by our country shows that the Government has taken a completely different side, on the capital side and advocates a sharp deregulation that will be harmful to a large part of society, which I am warning you once again, we have seen in the case of hospitality and are now being transferred to the trade profession. The country is thus increasingly becoming only a tool in the hands of capital. But we do not want such countries, and in the United Left we will vote against the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act, and we will vote against deregulation. It is harmful both for the welfare of people and for the development and profession of the seller and the manager is in fact already deregulation, since a minimum level of education is prescribed, not a specific direction. This minimum condition, however, contributes to ensuring the quality of commercial services and provides at least a certain level of safety for employees [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the country obviously intended to terminate. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of the amendment tabled of 15. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? I guess so. Please sign up. I give my word to Mr. Jan Schoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact already mentioned by our colleague, that the proposal is therefore not ready to withdraw the amendment deregulation of the educational standard, thus significantly lowering the minimum standards of employment in trade, we have tabled an amendment proposing that the implementation of this Regulation should be suspended in 2018 and, in the meantime, we have the opportunity to extend and open the debate on this subject so that we are seriously consulted within the Community of States or stakeholders in this process on what we are pursuing and what we are communicating with such measures. The deregulation of the educational standard itself is not just about abolishing a condition for employment in trade. It's a message that there's no need for education. It's not deregulation, it's the degradation of a trader's profession. By reporting that there is no need for any education or qualification for this job of the manager, we report that this work can be done by everyone, regardless of the complexity of the tasks and regardless of the work on which the quality, safety of the consumer, health and ultimately the added value of which the social state can also live, because if we have nothing to take from the common budget, including social problems, education, etc. We won't be able to solve it. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia itself, which, of course, strongly supports the deregulation of this profession, is implementing and preparing the project of its own academy. If anyone asked me about the logical follow-up of support for deregulation, at the same time introducing their own academy, it would seem to me that the argument is the least out of the ordinary. If, in this case, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education were to jointly prepare a deregulation measure of the manner of conditions as we know it today and the simultaneous introduction of apprenticeships, either sectoral academies or something like that, which would ensure adequate competence, the competent competence of people working in trade, of course, this proposal would be completely different. However, it hastens here through educational, non-professional deregulation, without having the next steps prepared or without a clear timeline, when support measures that are necessary in such a deregulation will be prepared and will take effect. The key question raised in this regard is how the National Assembly, as well as the Government, respect their past decisions. Slovenia is a knowledge society – I guess. We want highly qualified staff not only at higher education level, but also at professional, technical level. When we talk about what education must provide – if you were at the conference of Slovenian crafts in Bled, which has just taken place, you could hear, "We want them to be competently equipped, we want them to speak foreign languages, we want them to have interdisciplinary knowledge". All clear! Because only such people can provide high performance, efficient work, low number of errors and create added value, from which, if nothing else, as a spiral effect can finance further education, social standards, development projects, not least the 2 million or how many euro MGRT has prepared to allow Slovenian entrepreneurs to enter abroad, if I have understood correctly, this time the target, for example, the Japanese market. Not all of this will, of course, be possible if in Slovenian trade, which is a service activity that generates high added value, employees who have neither knowledge nor skills nor, as a result, will not be able to develop the competence which, if you read any strategic document or minutes of economic meetings, so much needs and requires the Slovenian economy. No, we're reporting that primary school is not necessary! Deregulation to create a good business environment. We will create a good business environment when we reach payment discipline, when we have well-trained staff and when we know how to strategically support Slovenian exporters with a significantly higher level of development aid and related measures. However, to allow the biggest employers who will still fill the key cities with such people adequately trained to pay as unskilled employees, I stress that the collective agreement is valid for another year, so that new negotiations and the new positions of these major employers who are speaking today will come, no, as everything in the collective agreement is regulated. And then they'll say, "I'm saying, I'm signing a job as a non-skilled worker, but it would be great if he was highly competent if he had foreign language skills and knowledge of management techniques and methods." At least unusual, if not completely illogical and incomprehensible! Therefore, what we are witnessing with this proposal is not a deliberate deregulation aimed at creating a better business environment. This is an attack on social standards, and this is the possibility of social dumping; allowing conditions for those who are well-trained to be paid less. As a result, this also means less inflows to the pension allowance, resulting in more difficulties during the third life period and since we tell people that education with this measure does not need, significantly harder overqualification, significantly harder mobility within the labour market and significantly less opportunities to be welcomed at the time of the possible collapse of a trader! - They're hiring somewhere else. Social Democrats cannot accept this. At the same time, it is essential and important to stress that we have committed ourselves to a concerted deregulation where it is necessary and to create a better business environment. This proposal is not! It is therefore essential and important that we move its implementation at least in 2018 with the amendment we have proposed and, in the meantime, ensure that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education jointly develop a system that can also make such a proposal for compensation with other mechanisms that will ensure that the competent competence and social standards of our citizens and citizens are not compromised. In advance, I thank all those who will understand and support us in this regard, and I also look forward to further work in providing and creating support measures in the event that this proposal is confirmed in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Given that my predecessor has called on all those who will support them, I must say immediately at the outset that I will also support the proposed amendment by the Group of Social Democrats. As we discuss this issue, the question arises to me whether we do not have more difficult and more necessary debates in this country at this time, and we are trying to find solutions that are crucial to the country, with which solutions we would somehow get Slovenia out of these problems. If we're talking about the deregulation of a trading profession, I'm asking one of the most important questions, whether this is even a matter of deregulation as such, mainly because some would like to bring [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u80	Excuse me, Mr. Jursha. [[…]] Please, thank you very much. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u81	Some would actually like to bring some solutions that would correspond mainly to those larger companies that would in some way use employees to do some of the work now carried out by qualified traders for substantially lower money. [[…]] That is why I fully agree with the views expressed earlier in our Group of Members, and especially with the views of the Social Democrats and the United Left. This time I am at a crossroads in fact whether to support the proposed law or not, especially for this reason, because I am assessing that this time it is actually the tension of large traders to hire people who are actually going to work for low wages. This same case can also be assessed in the hospitality. Today, if we go to restaurants, we can find that in most Slovenian restaurants there are people who do not have a suitable guest profession, mostly most of the students at a low price, even though we in this house have actually taken some solutions to determine the minimum amount they have to pay to the students who have employees. In central Slovenia, this amount still represents the minimum amount. In no case should we strive for workers to work for small money, to create some who run businesses and co-owners of businesses, a large income, and thus to put into great difficulty all those who live on the social side.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Vice President. As my fellow Member Jurša's point of view was, of course, the Desus Group has a bit of a dilemma as to how to vote in this law. Personally, I simply weigh positive and negative moments in deregulation of the trade profession. In any case, it is undeniable that we remain the only European country or country of the European Union that has a regulated trade and trading profession. Of course, there is still a whole range of other regulated professions which, of course, are not necessary to regulate to such an extent. At the same time, deregulation sets the possibility or fertile soil that anomalies occur and, at the final stage, the system in the field of these professions may also collapse. In any case, we do not want the deregulation of these two professions to devalue the profession of traders or traders. We do not want people who work in these jobs who do this work to be paid low to be discriminated against in the labour market; not least in the final stage, that there is also social dumping here. We do not want to see a trader deregulation — here I will allow myself to say — break up the educational system. Moreover, we want to see that education is homogenised here or that quality and targeted programmes for the education of traders and trade operators continue to be implemented. Finally, we do not want deregulation to lead to lower standards and less security for end-users, i.e. buyers or consumers. Of course, in all things, it is also necessary to take into account what the called entities or associations say. Chamber of Commerce for Illustration, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia Law supports. This has been clearly and explicitly said to us because they believe in the Chamber that it is a matter of creating a comparable business environment with the other Member States of the European Union. In addition, the proposed solution was based on an agreement and signatures of the collective agreement, which sets the minimum wage by tariff, fourth and fifth, classes irrespective of education, knowledge and work experience. I see a vital moment here. This is also the answer to the question that the people who carry out these professions must in no case be and will not be handicapped in terms of the level of payment, that of course we are not talking about the other conditions of work here. Finally, the Chamber of Economics does not oppose deregulation of the trade profession, but underlines what I initially said must be prevented from worsening the social situation of workers and, as they say, the breakdown of the educational system, i.e. the education system in the public education sphere. So we do not all want the matter to come together to some commercial private level of education or training. So, I wish that this deregulation of the profession – of course, I will listen carefully to the discussions on both sides – but I want, of course, that this deregulation of professions, if any, does not exacerbate the situation in the labour market, so that those who do this activity, especially traders and business managers, are not at any point in any segment, but at least in terms of working conditions and pay. Finally, it will be an important profession and it will have all the respect to become a marginal or to avoid degradation or marginalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I gave some of my views to the parental committee, where we somehow listened to the draft novel where we discussed it. I would like to give at least a few statistics in order to return to reality, to be aware that we are a member of the European Union, to be aware that we have an extremely good geostrategic position, to be aware that we are not living alone, that we are no longer around the border, but that we are moving into the framework of the European Union, and that the market is coming, and that if we stand even more on some of the trenches of regulation, we can remain alone, just as we will remain there in Telekom at today's stock value below €90. We're going so far. Now all I can do is test how far in the slavery we go with the policies that some here represent. I hope we are aware; for the first time, that Slovenia is in the European Summit in accordance with the level of regulation of professions at the summit. Let me say that Slovenia has 242 regulated professions. The recorders are ahead of us Czech Republic with 396 professions, Poland with 347, that Sweden has 88 regulated professions and that the Czechs and Poles, precisely because they are leading the way, have already announced that about – what the minister explained yesterday – they will immediately reduce the deregulation of these professions by 50%. The key objective of the new Trade Act is to deregulation of professions by seller and commercial manager. The educational condition is one of the conditions for conducting trade, due to deregulation – simplification of the business environment, increased employment and self-employment opportunities and a positive impact on social entrepreneurship, which is often represented by you. Those who somehow do not support these novels, I would like to mention that we have about 120,000 unemployed on the market and also on the stock market. I want to tell you that in the countryside we have a whole range of people in the trade sector who could open up, we have some social entrepreneurship, we have espies, and we don't have a chance. I would like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, of a whole range of traders who work, who are perhaps five years before retirement, have an incredible amount of experience, the knowledge they have acquired, are valued in their businesses and cannot become a commercial manager — so many colleagues from Desus. And just that, if this deregulation were to be, if it was valued in the company that it could become a commercial manager, it can't now. Because I think someone around – or a woman at 55 years of age will usually not go to an institution for a formal sheet, so that she will have her own knowledge, which is recognised, which they value in the company to be able to make progress. With this amendment, the law will be able to do so, and at least in the last five years, it will somehow have a greater basis for having a few ten euros or at least a few euros of this pension more. We're making all this possible now. Let me finally say – I will repeat twice what the minister said yesterday – among the 27 members Slovenia is the last one to have a regulated profession of merchant and trade manager, respected colleagues! Look, we can do this, we can let it go, but the store is coming. Remember, when you were young, where you went all the food? Where do all kinds of people go today, I'm not gonna tell Northeast Slovenia where I live? Over the border! They're already buying there! Not just for regulation, for more action. When you voted in favour of raising VAT, you must be aware that the whole type of trade in your environment, including colleague Jurša and everyone else, has decreased, the merchants have been forgiven and today people, the Slovenians are going back to Austria for basic needs. People are standing in line in the Austrian Radgona in front of gas stations and so on, I won't say that. This is just one of those things where we're going to deregulation, where we're going to improve the business environment a little bit. And there's no fear. Look, once when we were in school -- all those who graduated from high school, at least I think most of them, you used to talk in Latin about learning for life, not for school. We cannot appreciate people today according to their level of education, but according to their real knowledge, which the market recognises, recognised by its co-workers, recognised by the international environment, respected colleagues and colleagues! Let me tell you something else. Trader's call – it is from the debate that you see the ignorance of this profession. If I tell you how this works abroad, what specialists are, where people are, whether they are educated or not, even if they are assessed by the institution, according to the level of education they have acquired in some institutions, then there is also an assessment of educational institutions abroad. For example, a whole range of Slovenians are finishing high school at the Celovec Commercial Academy today because it is so much more recognised. And anyone who comes into the company, if they deregulation this profession when they show this document, would say, we are aware that you must have acquired the knowledge we need. Of course, there's an attack on people who don't know today. Also in this whole series of thousands of young people with diplomas, university diplomas – let these some institutions of this country ask themselves and guarantee – why they do not have a job; whether these skills are recognized in the market, what they have been taught and everything else, respected colleagues! They don't recognize anyone. There's no guarantee today. Even yesterday, as a representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I spoke about the fact that we have just reintroduced the Law on the Dual School System because we know this system. I met him myself, I was even a mentor once in Austria to these young apprentices in the company, not to explain further because I know how this system works. I believe that deregulation of this profession is the first step in deregulation. Of course, we are talking about meaningful deregulation, respected colleagues and colleagues! Let me tell you something else. Being a trader – a respected profession abroad. Of course, you have to be good at your profession all the time, you have to be skilled, you have to be neat, etc., so I don't list all the skills of this profession. But you must be aware that the profession is extremely wide. When I was alone with Siemens, there was a dealer with us who had a doctorate in science. When we passed on symatic systems to foreign partners, the sold engineer could be a technician, but he could be a doctor of science in the field of electrical engineering, the direction of automation. Thus the profession of merchant is not only a profession that you see, where someone stands in the food industry or in Bauhaus or in the first village of iron, a very wide profession. It is the institution that puts something on itself that wants to have a manager and a good trader who has competence. These competences and skills and experience and contacts with people, psychological sales and so on, not to mention all skills, are not related to one institution where she will give you one document. I also told the board that a good trader is like a good singer, is born, has a sense of this profession, we can improve it over the years either through the school system or through a company that somehow specializes in the industry he deals with. We have these cases. I've been explaining a whole series of cases abroad how this works. I explained my own brother's case, who was already a graduate economist, and then he went to C&A and could start again so he could become a textile sales specialist. Today, he is a successful manager, fortunately; but he had to start with the janitor, through the trader, head of the department, etc. To the top manager. What am I trying to say? We're giving an opportunity to a whole bunch of people who didn't have these options today. Comrade Prikl said that the collective agreement was only valid for another year. So you say in advance that it will not harmonise and that the collective agreement will not show these minimum standards. We can set any standards, we can regulate that tomorrow's minimum wage is thousands of euros, and the consequences of this will show the market how successful we will be, I believe, that the trade sector is extremely undernourished, it can give very good results in the shortest possible time if we make a few moves, some deregulation, depending on our geostrategic position. [[…]] Slovenia can become a soft shop during the next five years, but we must be aware of how trade works and how good traders work. Good traders don't work by sending them with some formal education in front of someone and selling them if they're not motivated to do so if they don't want to. You will not do this from man, colleagues and colleagues, with no regulation. Let me get this straight for you. Through the market, especially today, when we are in the global market, when people, including labour, are passing through, we will not stop it. This minimum condition, which the government has moved and which I have always praised, despite whatever my political competition does, is the first step in this deregulation. The minister also said – I think he said – about 20 professions to deregulation, which is kind of a minimum number, this is the first step. Please, colleagues and colleagues, at least those who oppose this don't scare the people who are trying us! Believe that we will see in the coming months that this was a good measure, I'm sure. Once again, I cannot support this proposed amendment of the Social Democrats in order for the law to enter into force in 2018 if it were to be adopted, because if it could return to the past, it should be implemented immediately at the beginning of 90 years. Why he wasn't, I don't know. Understand and please don't scare the people who are in the trade sector, because it's only good for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Scoberne. I gave Mr. Skoberna my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u87	Mr Vice President, it is necessary to decide who to give the floor to.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u88	All right, Mr. Franz Jursha, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u89	It's no problem if a colleague replicates in front of me. I want to be relatively very patient with my colleague Breznik. I would expect him to discuss it this way. Well, he wasn't very impatient, but in a way, he was killing the views of those who think a little differently. I don't think there's anything wrong with thinking differently in this room. It is right to think in our own way and to make these thoughts, conclusions, conclusions, and then try to find a common solution, which most also support. My colleague Breznik, it was not a key question for me whether a machine technique would be able to sell more qualitatively than a car manager than a merchant who went to a commercial school and then upgraded a commercial school with a management school. That wasn't my question. My question was, who will be able to do everything in the store and at what cost they will work and what salary they will receive. For me, the question was, above all, a social one. Some of you don't have that much social sense in you. But some of us who are socially oriented think so little differently. As far as the invasion of shopping in Austria is concerned. I think it's much less than it was in the past. In the past, we have walked much more to Austria than we are now. I think that we can now buy everything that the European market is going through in Slovenia. However, as regards the value added tax, which does not touch this proposal for amendments to the law, I will say, because Desus and I were sitting with her in the government, which we created with the SDS, and I know exactly what was said about the VAT. We did not do this because the government had broken down before, or else the government of Janez Janša would have raised the VAT. Thus, do not evaluate the reason for us to go to Austria with a thin gasoline mainly because this government has raised Alenka Bratušek's previous government, now I do not know, Alenka Bratušek raised the VAT. This is not accurate information and I think it would be right to talk about things that have actually happened and that would have happened if it were as I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleague Beznik! Of course, in a very important part, you misunderstood me, especially by trying to intimidate anyone here on this side. The Member's task is to represent people; one of them is employers, namely the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. The views I have given and what you call intimidation are, but to quote them, that you will not have problems with me, the following: "We warn that the decision of the legislator in the proposed deregulation of the seller's profession and the business manager is not well weighed and will have more negative than the positive effects that consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises will have in particular. The consequences of deregulation, according to the Trade Section of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, will be the following: unfair competition, especially between small traders, and resulting in greater opportunities for closing small trade and job losses; increasing the number of failed small businesses in the field of trade, which will be closed due to inadequate knowledge, in particular the knowledge of the manager; poorer protection of employees and more likely to lose their jobs; the elimination of educational conditions will increase pressure on lower salaries of sellers and intermediaries in a few years, which is now regulated by a collective contract; reduced competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises; increased exposure of suppliers and lower consumer safety and health risks." Once again, these are not things that we invent from the air that we do not know, these are the positions of those who work in activities, representatives of small, micro, craftsmen, even some medium-sized, who are likely to agree on this, the backbone of the Slovenian economy, who want to work and they have said their position. We are not actually talking here about a fight, which is classic, between unions and employers; unions and employers here represent identical positions, except the Chamber of Commerce, which represents the largest, of course, which want to be the very nature of the economic theory of monopolies, you will know this because you are an expert in trade, even Siemens has similar aspirations. What's he doing? He's walking around Europe, trying to be the biggest, small, even craftsmen. These are their fears, and this is not intimidation. [[…]] This is a key issue of what needs to ensure the functioning of its business tomorrow and which counts on good, qualified staff and, of course, wants its employees to be able to develop new products [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u92	Three minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u93	but not with existential questions. [[...]] Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u94	Mr. Beznik, there are no replicas available and you no longer have time. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The merchant was once a respected and respected profession, both waitresses and chefs were trained, and today, unfortunately, everyone can do anything. Deregulation in the labour market brings a worse position for workers and workers, putting them in a tight competitive position, which means pressure on wages and pressure on working conditions and pressure on labour rights. At the treatment of the parent’s working body, and even today, we have heard that the trader is born, that he must have a special cord to sell and so on. You know, for a lot of professions, it takes talent first. But talent is about 20%, and 80% is hard work, education and education. Today, we have heard that today, when everything is for sale, traders are also different. We have a full range of traders. Sure. But the right hand is usually a picture of a dealer, an evil, successful trader who sells, I don't know, cars for more than ten thousand euros or 100,000 euros. Of course, these are fairy tales and confessions, and the truth is completely different. A large majority of more than 100,000 employees in the labour market are working repeatedly for the cash market or for the folding of goods. The income of a large majority of employees barely exceeds the minimum wage, a large majority of them do shift work and work on weekends, even on Sundays. Not to mention some extremely exploitative practices used by certain trade chains, which should be stopped immediately by means of legal solutions and enhanced supervision by the Labour Inspectorate. Traders or traders are highly feminized because women dominate the workforce. Let me stress that women are often more disadvantaged than men when it comes to working rights and standards that we enjoy at work. Finally, there are still completely unfair differences between the pay for men and women doing the same work. Among the most feminised are activities in the service sector where wages are on average lower and overtime and difficult working conditions are very common. As workers, we are deprived of our rights because we are even more dependent on capital for the birth of children and even more difficult for our rights. In short, for decent work and for decent pay. We will therefore vote against this law because we cannot and will not support deregulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Marjeta Goochek Zakošek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As its ten-year key project, the government has set itself a recast, deregulation of several professions and activities and committed itself to reducing their number. This project was signed by all coalition partners. We heard a colleague, Violeto Tomić, who said that only hard work and lifelong education could lead us to a successful work. Last but not least, we know a number of people in her profession who either didn't start or end up being an actor, and today they're great players, maybe even better than those who graduated from the academy. I find this debate really interesting today. I would certainly agree with Mr Prikl, who says we need to look at the pluses and minuses. However, I would like to know why this small Slovenia is so different from other countries in Europe. Tell me why we're so afraid of some things that obviously work somewhere else. And don't worry about it – it is true that we don't buy anymore in lines, as Mr Jurša said, but as consumers without concern we go to Europe, we buy in Austria, Germany, Sweden, where only 87 professions are deregulated, and we don't care about our rights at all. I would like to say that my mistaking of who has a social sense and who does not have a social sense has disturbed me today, because we know that the social partners have reached an agreement and that those who will be classified as traders or managers will also be classified in a specific tariff class. I've spent a lot of my life in sales myself. I was on the side, let's say, of the seller and of the employer. You know, the employer isn't really gonna hire a guy who's a bad salesman. Believe me, because he won't have a sale and if he doesn't have a sale, he won't have a job and he just won't be able to exist. Even the inn won't hire a bad cook, a bad waiter. And I ask you – will you ever go to a restaurant where you will be ill served or will the food be bad? I believe not. Regardless of how we deny the market, we are the very market that sets out. Even in a store where they won't serve you well and be rude, you'll never set foot again. And you know it. Therefore, I personally believe that this deregulation is not as harmful as we all imagine. You know, good companies have a so-called internal education system. This internal system must work all the time because the environment is changing, consumer requirements are changing, customer requirements are changing, products are different, and this is a perpetuum mobile. My friend Kordish is nodding at me, and I believe he understands what I'm saying. That's what I'm trying to say. Many times it has been said that a small man will now be a merchant and this merchant, this little man who cannot stand up for himself, will now sell and be cornered there. You know, a man who can't stand up for himself can't be a salesman. A man who stands by himself and has a so-called serial position, plus plus, I'm okay, and you're okay, only such a man can sell anything at all. Because if he has a minus position himself, I'm not okay, then such a person can't be a salesman; but this is true for one who works in a big store and perhaps only circulates between shelves, as for one who sells top-notch technological products to very demanding customers. I believe this fear is too much. And dear social partners on my right! We have a whole range of people who have no formal education and will never have one. Think of the farmers! You know, a farmer usually doesn't have an education – or, well, he finishes maybe a secondary agricultural school. And you think he can sell? He sells at the market. Today the inspectors could punish him if they wanted to. We have family businesses, and that is why the unions – I already said that on the board – are unions of entrepreneurs and craftsmen in some way I do not understand. I hope that there is a lot of movement in the field and they listen to micro-enterprises, family businesses and small businesses, because my information on this issue is not identical to that statement that Mr Škoberne has read. Because it would be logical to help them open up the market and sell without formal education. That's right, and they'll only be able to pay as much as they sell. The unions can write down the fourth and fifth tariff classes, the family company, you know, will also work with the minus. That's right. And I know we have to protect the workers. The government has done everything here to establish tariff classes by collective agreement, regardless of education. It's a set-up! Here I can read the article and also the date when it was signed. But that nothing is eternal in life, and we all know that, so now that the collective agreement is signed for until I don't know when, it's not possible. Personally, I believe that this amendment, which has been tabled, is simply a burden of responsibility. We have done it to do it together with coalition partners, it is only the first step and if we postpone it now to 2018 If I think about where I was in 2012, where I stood, what I was doing, it was completely something else, it is the laying down of responsibility. [[…]] Today it is up to us to decide whether we advocate that trade activities within the European Union will have the same conditions as other Member States, or whether we are not prepared to take this step here and we cannot go on. Because if each deregulation is essentially going to have such a debate, it is necessary to sit down and look at matters. I personally support it because I still believe in the honesty of both employers and employees, and last but not least, on the committee, it was said by the union. We used to scare kids because they didn't graduate from high school to pick up trash, and now we're gonna scare them off with dealers. It's a pity. You know, if my kid didn't just drop out of high school because of any class, it would be better for me to work in a store than to pick up garbage because it's a valuable job. I don't know; every thing has two faces. Let's think about things and I don't know if we can be as different as the rest of the millions in the European Union. I will personally support this law, and I do not support the amendment that has been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The replica of Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u99	Because my colleague Guček Zakošek challenged me about my profession. First of all, picking up garbage is a valued job, just like trading. Each work is worthy of respect and we need it, and we also expect an appropriate payment for each work. It's about the game profession. Yeah, it's deregulation, just like all professions have recently been deregulated, because it's only valid for this maximum that everyone can do anything. In particular, art professions are often regarded as insufficiently respected work, as we know, and the profession is not respected enough. It's called "I drink one, but I'm a big actor." You know, okay, some people like to watch that, too. Every audience has what they like to watch, but the fact is, no skateboard can replace a college-educated player who's been learning that for four years in college. And that's what I'm going to say. An unschooled actor will never, ever be employed in a theatre institution. That's a big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs Mariana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'll start at the end, with fear. This word has somehow hurt me, but it would point to the situation of the merchants in Lidl if you know them; or perhaps not, ask yourself what is working with people today when they are working after 3, 4 hours a day — it is official. They've been working for hours, and they get paid for that. Respected for what this worker will be when the old one is out of work, will not have paid contributions, will not have a pension, miserable social support. When he can't take care of himself anymore, we'll put him in a home. On whose account, I ask, Your Honor? At the expense of a country that will support this capital, which today would not give the worker what is basic to him. Because, in fact, I understand this law mainly by lowering wages for workers in trade in such a way that we will not require any more education from people who can run for individual jobs, so the primary school will no longer be needed. That's how I understand it. Or maybe I'm wrong? Tell me I'm wrong! If I return to Article 7 myself and to the amendment, I will say this: I support this amendment of the Social Democrats, and I also support the debate of my esteemed colleague Scobernet, who has presented the problems that are emerging, and I would not repeat it because we have already heard it. I also support the position of the United Left with regard to this law and also support the debate of the honourable Member of France Jurša. However, if I touch on the views or justifications adopted for this law by, for example, the Government, which says that it is primarily an equalisation of the conditions for carrying out this activity in the European Union. Mrs Guček also said that this is important and that we are the only country in the European Union that has not yet been so regulated. I wonder if we are seeing all these problems, which I have just said and which Mr Škoberne and others have presented in the debate, whether we must always follow what is in the European Union. I also understand those discussions when you said that it was jobs, that it was a sale in a store and so on. But I think it would be wise for this SD proposal to support this amendment and take time to discuss more time and then decide whether to accept such a proposal as it is or maybe something else. I think it's really not so urgent that we have to take this change right away and I think we have time and we should take the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u103	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! I must say directly that the Government is against this amendment or disagrees with it, that I will say what I said yesterday in the debate on the inclusion of this law on the agenda, that deregulation of activities and professions is the 10th strategic project of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is also included in the action programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to remove administrative obstacles and improve legislation. We want to do this and do it thoughtfully — just the opposite, as was said — gradually. In Slovenia, as you have heard several times, 242 regulated professions, we intend to deregulation 20%, 242 times 20, let's say that this is a total of 50 professions as opposed to those leading Czechs and Poles who intend to halve this issue. The key objective of the new Trade Act is to deregulation of the professions of sellers and commercial managers. The educational condition is one of the conditions for carrying out this trade, the result of deregulation will be simplification of the business environment, increased employment and self-employment opportunities, a positive impact on social entrepreneurship. The proposed amendment will equalise the conditions for carrying out trade activities within the European Union, as there is no minimum education for these two professions in any Member State. I repeat this again because we are again in the face of the situation, that we are hearing that the world will collapse if we deregulation these two professions. An analysis of the effects of the changes has been made, mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises, and the key conclusion is that the changes follow the objectives of creating a business environment that promotes the development of entrepreneurship and competitiveness. The flexibility of job search, promotion and self-employment will be increased for employees. The business environment for family businesses will improve. For employers, flexibility in new jobs and in the distribution of workers is one of the main effects of the proposed regulation. The signatories to the collective agreement on trade activity agreed that this area of education for some typical jobs would be regulated in the collective agreement. The collective agreement was adopted in March 2014 and the Ministry followed this coordinated procedure, which the social partners are negotiating or have agreed that, in the event of deregulation, they shall adopt arrangements under the collective agreement. At present, the law even allows for flexibility agreed by the social partners. I think we have given a lot of legitimate reasons for this proposal to be supported and adopted, and I reiterate once again that the Government is against the adoption of this amendment. But I also have to say in a joke, or if you take it seriously, that I can drink 10 glasses, and I'll never be a bad actor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. I can say in the introduction that I am truly very disappointed that we are getting such a law in Parliament regarding the deregulation of the trade profession. This means that we are legislating that in Slovenia we can be cheap workers. That's all the law brings. We need to know that Agrokor recently bought Mercator. Isn't it just another one of those processes to fulfill the lobbyist promises that were made to make this sale come about? For Agrokor has an interest in paying his purchases as soon as possible – and what is easier than reducing wages for employees? Thus, this deregulation is precisely the answer to this question. Besides Agrokor we have in Slovenia Spar, we have Lidl, we have Hofer, we have Eurospin, Leclerc; in short, merchants are foreigners in Slovenia. For these foreigners we offer even cheaper labour than they already have at their disposal today, because the wages of traders are already at a minimum level. It is not expected that an agreement will be respected, Mr Minister, to maintain wages at the same level as the law now provides. I'm just going to remind you of the referendum on the Trade Act, where it was a question of whether you were to be designated as a store for emergency life articles opening up no more than 10 weeks a year, except for petrol services, and so on. Did the merchants, or did the capital, respect the referendum? Did he respect people’s decisions? No way! Therefore, if we allow this capital to be agreed, this agreement will certainly benefit from collecting as much profit from these trades as possible in a way that will reduce wages for employees. So, 100,000 employees in Slovenian shops or shops in Slovenia, which are usually owned by foreigners, will work for even less money than they do today. And this is the problem that we are also reminding us of with the amendment that we have tabled to the transitional provisions, because the second amendment was not possible to submit to this law because the law has not been opened! But definitely this marriage can't be proud of us. Cheap labour Slovenians cannot simply be in the future; Slovenians can only survive with knowledge, by investing in knowledge, and by no means deregulation of professions and by reducing the level of education in order to carry out certain professions. So far we have been competitive and successful only because we had knowledge, and now all of a sudden in Slovenia we will no longer need this knowledge. This, of course, will also lead to the collapse of some vocational schools and will automatically lead to employment for those who have a higher education teaching, teaching in these schools. So we follow a strict neoliberal policy that does not want to deregulation in any area. The neoliberal policy does not tolerate regulation in any field, and this is a law that is in favour of neoliberal politics, but is impersonal, it does not deal with the problem of people, but deals only with how to create as much profit as possible for those who have the opportunity. That's why I won't support this marriage. We propose that this amendment be supported, so that at least by 2018 we seriously consider what we are doing. But I'm simply protesting that Slovenians become a cheap labor force! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much. So, I'll give you one more chance to report to the debate because I see there's still a wish. Please sign up. Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and everyone else! In this debate, which has become so hot, I would like to draw attention to just one small thing: the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia gave its opinion. If yes, I say, it is funny to me if one of the chambers, if we are talking about the Trade and Deregulation Act, we are saying that the Chamber of Commerce is probably one of the stakeholders who probably knows something about this matter. [[…]] And if this Chamber, with the signature of the Executive Director and the Legal Adviser, says that this law is okay, it is said that it supports deregulation, and also given that a collective agreement on trade activities in Slovenia has been signed, which entered into force on 1 May 2014, where it is defined what tariff classes must be, it is said, that there is already some postulate of some security, I think this is one of the important arguments why on SMC we tend to support this law. Because we think it is, first of all, supported by one shareholder who has a word, which represents, as mentioned above, 6,000 companies, and these are micro, small, medium and large enterprises. Thus, if they are representatives of one such large circle, they probably know what they are talking about and why they support this matter, so that the matter can count and that this trade can also expand and flourish. But if we speak of fear, and of it: fear is full, but we know that fear is in the midst of wooing. If we are going to discuss this now, yes, because I say I apologize for making a mistake, but I want to say that we are actually wasting time in these deregulations after unnecessary. [[…]] If we are one of the countries that has the most regulated issue and everyone here, even coalition partners, we have committed ourselves to implementing and working deregulation, I think this is one of the steps we are approaching. Is it dangerous now, or will it be — I don’t know. I think both unions and workers have a lot of chances of resisting. Also Mrs Porotat, who said that irregularities were taking place in Lidl. There are jobs for that, because if these jobs don't work, they don't work, then they're wrong. So they have someone to turn to. In fact, I do not really see so much fear, but the fact that the State Assembly is still in the final stage if it sees that this was not right, it can also be corrected. But let's let the free market breathe, let's try to do this at this stage, because even in the restaurant I don't see so many problems that we can't function; but even though they work students, even though they do some who aren't waiters and caterers after education, but those who do, and those who work they probably know who they are. But if all of this goes to some point of some kind of intimidation and some social issues, then we're not going anywhere. I think that we, first of all, must not only be responsible, but also be a little broad about these changes. Because if we're afraid to do something every time, because I don't know what's going to happen, because there's some kind of fear, then we're not going to take any steps forward, we're going to be creaking on the spot all the time. And I don't think that's right. Here, when we actually have confirmation from the Chamber of Commerce, which is one of the stakeholders, this is certainly the right direction to go. And the GZS also supports this matter. That way I don't see why we shouldn't support it. But fear, of course, always exists and will always exist. But, my God, we have to move forward once in a while and move forward with these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! I do not want a political fight about such micro, such small amendments to the Trade Act, so about the micro deregulation of the seller's profession and the commercial manager. I must say that I was initially surprised or did not agree that Nova Slovenija is planning a debate here for 10 minutes, but I see that we have done the right thing to discuss the debate. First of all, as far as the amendment is concerned. It is true that the amendment must have led to the opening of the debate. However, as explained in the explanatory note, the validity of this Act should only start on 1 January 2018 and this amendment should in fact resolve the education system in the field of quality of services, social security and so on. Colleagues and colleagues, on November 23, 1990, we decided on a separate path, for a single country and for a market economy – for a market economy, that is, for the end of socialism! Not explicitly for the market economy, because now someone might replicate me, but we said, "The end of socialism, we're going to parliamentary democracy." Christian Democrats want to develop a strong, efficient system of socio-market economy, following the example of Germany. Now, if that bothers anyone, maybe, but I'm sure Germany is our most important external trading partner. Colleagues and colleagues, if we look at the store, what it was like 40, 50 years ago, what it's like today and what it's gonna be like in 50 years. I remember my peers, my generation, who attended a commercial school. There was an object of charity. It was said that the object was afraid and shivering because they had to know a lot about the items that were on the shelves. At the time the shelves were still such that the consumer could not reach these shelves alone, but he had to be a merchant who took off a product from the shelf and told you all about this product. What a store today — you know! It's a bit inappropriate to say that traders are foreigners today. I would rather say that today there are traders with us, that is, those who build trade, including the citizens of the European Union; as I, as Minister of Rest, like you, colleagues and colleagues, and so on. And that we have great freedom for consumers to vote when it comes to trade, when it comes to offering to vote with our feet. How do you do that? Yeah, so I'm going to that store where I get the best fruit for some price, the best food products, where I see accurate traceability, and where I get the best machines, household appliances and so on. I know exactly where my wife needs to go, which store she needs to buy. What about online commerce, colleagues and colleagues? In Europe, online trade has growth of approximately 12.5%. In the next period, this growth, I think, will be even faster. Who's the salesman? Who's the manager? Do you know him? I don't know him. All I know is that on the Internet, I learn to read what I buy, and then I order, I pay, they bring me home. I'm not a trade expert, but I think they'll bring me home when I'm online, including food products. I don't have any pleasure in shopping, some of whom have it, especially respectable ladies, probably so much more. But colleagues and colleagues, given that we are on a single market in the European Union, which many do not like; some say we are going out. Yeah, okay, so defend this, just then you have to tell me what the consequences are. We decided at the referendum to go to the European Union and that there are also certain directives, regulations, recommendations and, of course, within the European Union, within the eight-hundred-and-twenty, we are comparing ourselves with regulated professions and here we are at the summit. I guess one of them likes it, but I don't. I would like to be in the middle of gold as far as regulated professions are concerned. If we have so many unemployed young people, why not let the trader hire someone who is good, who learns fast – we learn our whole lives – rather than the one who has the paper that says the seller, qualified, educated, or whatever, may not be nice, etc. In this sense, I also see competition that they also enter the market, but not the sellers after education, but they are good, they learn, they want to help me, the consumer, they teach me how to do something part, etc. Today, 50 years ago and 50 years ago, the seller is incomparable professions. I mean, like here in the amendment's explanation, it says there's going to be a lot of damage in the education system. I now wonder whether the market should follow the educational system or the education system of the market. I think it's different. The educational system must follow the market. We will probably have one day, and we already have cases where we simply don't educate for some profession anymore, because it simply disappeared, and on the other hand we have education for new professions that arise every day. I simply do not see the great fear here, and here I support Minister Restoration as much as possible not only in this law, but also in his intention to deregulation more professions. It should also be fair to say that, as far as payment is concerned, the seller remains at least in the fourth grade and the manager remains at least in the fifth grade. That must also be said honestly. I would agree, however, that you might be surprised to hear from your colleague Violeto Tomić, who talked about how this profession is feminized and how shopkeepers have to work in the afternoon, at night, Sunday. Here, of course, I am also reminding myself of the referendum as colleague Janko Weber, of course colleagues and colleagues, the merchants of the referendum will not take into account, this house must take into account the referendum outcome! Let me tell you that the New Slovenia Group is thinking about introducing a law, a novel of the Trade Act, where we want to enforce it, here I see that support is that we will enforce the referendum will of people, that trade will be closed on Sunday, unfortunately mea culpa a lot of people must say this, except New Slovenia, only we voted in 2004-2008 for closing trade on Sunday. Unfortunately, we were in a minority. Now it's obviously a family visit to stores, in hypermarkets, which has actually become our way of life. Or is it some quality of life, and I'm not so sure. Wouldn't family rather go out in nature, to the pool and so on? In fact, there is, and here you see this one, I agree, you see brutal capitalism, which excites traders who can't be at home with families, but they have to work there for those, yes, really almost minimum wage. I'm in favour of capitalism, just not brutal capitalism. That's why stores have to be closed on Sunday. I hope you can help us with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. In a way, I am sorry that after such a time, we still use two wrong terms in this debate. Mr Horvat has just arrived at the last moment, and he may not have been able to read the amendments in full, but perhaps he is talking about the wrong side. However, the Minister should know the difference between professional deregulation and educational deregulation. In the area of trade, professional deregulation has already taken place. In practice, this means that we have already repeated several times that there is no longer a need for a commercial school to carry out a business. It can be technical, mechanical, forestry — whatever. The important thing is that it's IV. or V. degrees. What we accept today is educational deregulation. It means we're deleting any education. The primary school is also compulsory in the Republic of Slovenia. If this solves the Slovenian economy, if I see neither the argument nor the logic of how it could solve the Slovenian trade, then it is worth considering. But we need to think about this in an integrated way, Mr. Minister and Mr. Horvath. This means that an appropriate measure, such as in Austria, Germany and elsewhere, must also come to this measure. One of these options is apprenticeship. But for these two to work, it needs to be implemented simultaneously. Not individually, in order to meet the interests and goals of the stronger, but then in the next three years, we will consider whether we need to protect the weaker. That is why we have proposed an amendment that gives us time to prepare an appropriate parallel action in the field of education, and this could also be apprenticeship on the basis of a sectoral contract. No problem, great, great! Then it might make sense. In this way, however, it is only by creating the possibility that people will be paid less for their work and with the education they will have. This is pointed out by trade unions, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Section of Entrepreneurs, small traders. I do not know what the problem is to apply a logical measure, so that if we find that this measure alone does not solve the issue of the need for a complementary measure, we do not extend this period. I believe that the Minister of Education, at least in the light of her statements of appreciation for apprenticeships, will be more than willing to discuss how these two measures will be balanced and not allowing the fears that we are talking about today to be summarized, once again, from the Chamber of Commerce, from trade unions and from those working in the sector to be realized. The matter is simple at the end of the day: this measure will go through, in a little while we will find that it has negative effects, as we have found in the restaurant, and then we will ask ourselves how to fix it and why some of us were unable to apply a parallel measure at the time. Comrade Breznik warned that a law on apprenticeship had already been prepared, the Ministry was preparing it, we all agreed that this was necessary. Please postpone the implementation of the law, prepare appropriate complementary measures, and prevent us from forgetting the weakest in this process because we are in a hurry today. However, the strongest will achieve its own and, of course, will most clearly articulate its point of view, but it is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u113	President, thank you for your word. When I listen to these discussions today, I feel like shopkeepers want to have bad employees to want to have people who are not qualified to drive away customers. What's more, shopkeepers want us not to sell as much as possible, but to sell it as little as possible. I have listened to the words that there will be a greater number of mistakes, that there will be no knowledge, that there will be no skills, and that as a result they will not be able to develop competences. So the shopkeepers don't want a good worker at all. On the basis of this debate, I can also explain the matter this way. All I want is as little regulation as possible in the economy. I also support the Minister's proposal. This means that the trader, in this case, will set up himself, for example, an employee for the manager who has earned it over the years, and perhaps only has a primary school. Or that he might hire a young, hardworking mother who has failed to complete high school is desperate to have a job. Mr Jurša said that we have bad practices in the restaurant, students working at a low price. Excuse me, but the problem of paying a student is not the problem of today's discussion, it should be discussed under another law and not the Trade Act. But we do know that students are already working without skills, without knowledge, and working in the store. We consumers, however, decide which trade is appropriate for us. I think that the key problem in today's debate is mainly the tariff class set out in the collective agreement. At the same time, I wonder, for example, if we decide today and do not accept deregulation – does this mean that the tariff class in the collective agreement remains? I don't think so, or I believe not. Mrs Kotnik Porotat, who is unfortunately not in the hall right now, I believe she is listening to me in the dining room, has mentioned bad practice. But she mentioned bad practice when there is no such deregulation, so I really don't see any concrete connection with today's adoption of deregulation. As a Member, I would like to point out that we are obliged to report such bad practices, and if she wants help, I will help her here. If we're just discussing that there are some bad practices and we don't do anything, I don't think it's right. The key is that we want to follow the European Union, but not just in a letter of law, but in a practice that already exists in the European Union. It is right and right that we follow this practice, and that we are, not least, competitive. Finally, let me say that I myself have worked for more than ten years in sales and have experience in this area. Like my colleague Guček Zakošek, I was on the employee's side and later on the employer's side, where I had the opportunity to decide who was making progress and who was not. I've never thought about what education he has, but I've always wanted him who's as competent as possible, who has the skills, the desire to progress, to deserve advancement. Once again, the collective agreement speaks of tariff classes. And deregulation itself, yes or no, has nothing to do with what kind of payment someone gets. However, every effort must be made to ensure that this collective agreement remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u115	President, thank you very much for your word. This discussion has been going on for a while, and I don't know where to start. I don't know where to start for another reason, but this is probably the first debate in the National Assembly since the mandate of this National Assembly, which has made me the most angry, has made me feel the most emotionally hurt. Why? Because this is probably the first proposal that directly targets the level of labour rights and the standard of living that we have received in this reference to the table so far. Yes, we had a budget that weighed down the belt, yes, we are talking about privatisation, but nothing like this today's proposal has yet hit the labour rights, the working class, as much in person as it is today. Some perception, some ideological cap, under which the deregulation of the trade profession is forced, refers to the market, to the omnipotence of the market, I do not know what receptive capabilities this market should have, but there is no critical treatment of any market mechanisms. We are taking pictures of some half rustic stories about how the market works between some defenders and so on and for the ruling party and what other advocate of these deregulations seems to have stayed in its market concept somewhere with the 13th century champagne fairs. But the fact that the market is a global mechanism that judges the economy around this area at this point around the entire globe, you obviously have no idea, because if you did, you would probably be aware that there was a real unbridled market, just the free market. [[…]] Before that, my colleague Ferlug was talking about letting us breathe in the free market. Yeah, I mean, we let the free market breathe. This breathing has been called an economic crisis, even today it is called an economic crisis. Deregulation was just the thing that led to the economic crisis. But here we are talking about how deregulation, in another area, but connected, opens up some wonderful world of advancements for the common man, for workers, for workers, as if they have closed doors for a better life today because they would be too qualified, too educated, just through some informal mechanisms, not too few through formal mechanisms, but not that people today have problems with living standards and obtaining jobs because they simply do not have jobs. That's the heart of the problem. And the deregulation of the trade profession in this educational loss will certainly not eliminate this. No! No! It will only open the door for even greater pressure on employees, to make even greater use of the workforce, for even greater profits from some trade magnates. As the deregulation has been done, we can look not only at the case of the market as such, but also at the free market, where it has led to economic collapse and the economic crisis. We can also look at another area that is closer to today’s framework. Especially in the area of luxury. How did the nicknames happen to us? Yes, but our labour market is supposed to be too rigid, our labour market is supposed to be too flexible. And what happened? First we got some work for a certain time, then came copyrights, business contracts, espelations, started hiring agency workers and so on and so on. Tell me, which of these practices has led to a higher standard of living, a higher standard of living for ordinary people, a working class. No one! None at all. All of them have led to the decline in the standard of living, to the increase in exploitation, to increased uncertainty, to increased pressure on employees, to increase the reduction of labour rights. The same can be said in the area of trade deregulation. However, this is what we do not have on the table today, except that in a particular area of the economy, a security guard is set aside to allow a fierce competitive fight between employees in this area of the economy. Of course, big merchants can lose their hands like this because of this, of course, their profits will increase. The only safeguard against this would be an argument of the integrity of employers, which we have heard today. Today, we have heard that this deregulation will open up a career, a wonderful career opportunity for the broad strata of the population, but that the rights potentially threatened by this deregulation will safeguard some integrity of employers. Let us look at this honesty of employers. Let us ask, How much has this great honesty of employers left unpaid contributions so far? These are huge numbers, hundreds of millions. That's the honesty. Or, today, we have already said something about migrant work at one of the previous points. The integrity of the employers was left to the dry, some even died, 10,000 and 10,000 migrant workers who had built this country and its economy, and the honesty of the employers had rewarded them by exploiting them 16 hours a day. Even more, when they didn't have to, she pushed them back to the buses and pushed them back across the border to Bosnia. This is the famous honesty of employers. This also responds to another argument, or argument, with which the advocates of deregulation parade. That I would know the employer, the capitalist, that the money would only bring him a happy employee and only a satisfied employee, only one who would be well cared for. Yes, if that were true, then we can fully relax the labour market in law, and none of the employers of this mechanism will be able to do so, because each of their employees will be given a contract for regular working hours in order to ensure a happy, satisfied, stable worker. Is that what's going on? Of course it's not happening. The standard of labour rights is falling. Real bears to lower themselves. This is the reality of the integrity of employers and this is the reality of the so-called market mechanism that rewards the capable in individual companies, that they will really get this salary because these kind, beautiful, honest, interested employers will see their talent, see their contribution to the company and reward them financially. A little bit of morgen! If that were true, today we would not have so many unemployed, if that were true, today we would not have 400 thousand people living below the poverty line. If that were true, employers would not continue to press for further flexibility in the labour market. Thus, they are indeed blisters, uniform floscules to justify the free market and, within this, also the policy of deregulation of professions. As we have heard several times today, this is one of the priorities set by the Government. If we move on — just a moment to find myself — but yeah, then let us ask ourselves who is in interest. I've already made a bit of an announcement in this debate. Employees, those who work as workers, as bussiers in the store, are certainly not in the interest of doing so. They too know damn well that these changes lead nowhere but to lowering their standard of living. Of course, this could be in the interest of the larger trading chains and their owners. This, too, has already been addressed today by colleague Weber, this part, and these changes follow nothing but the short-term interests of these great traders. As for the Government itself and its agenda for this deregulation, see the measures taken by the Government of Mir Cerar have a new dimension. We know how this government has swallowed the electoral promises of privatisation. This does not need to be highlighted, nor does it need to be highlighted in particular by the tightening of the belt with the austerity measures of which the architect was and is still Dušan Maramor. At the same time, the President of the Cerar Government on the round table said that we need to solve the problems with the flexibility of the labour market, which means, of course, that we need to solve a disease with more of the same poison that it has produced. Deregulation is now joining all these three policies, privatisation, flexibility and austerity measures. These are nothing more than four dogmas directly on the first side of the neoliberalism textbook. Not only can we not support such policies in the United Left but we can only reject them most decisively and oppose them, we oppose them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I understand there's still a desire to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. First of all, let me say that today we are talking about the fact that education will no longer be a legal condition, which does not mean, as colleagues Potočnikov and Guček Zakoškova have said, that employers will employ inappropriate staff to carry out a particular job. It is necessary to give traders the opportunity and trust them because the trader's interest and the trader's purpose is to create some positive result of the work. They will employ only those who will be sold, sold, and served well. Mrs Kotnik Porotat said the poor practice of foreign traders, Lidla, but let me say that, in the framework of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities at the session of the Labour Inspectorate, where it was explicitly said that a thorough inspection was carried out over Lidlo and Hofer, it was found that, although workers are actually employed for 4 to 5 hours, all workers have such a high reward that they can easily pay three hours out of those funds and that all their rights are respected, much more than likely with many other traders. The breakdown of the education system that we're talking about today. The head of the lower secondary trade school in Maribor said: "Good merchants will always be needed and get all the necessary knowledge from us. Deregulation does not, however, mean that schools will no longer educate the necessary personnel because we cannot be without trade. This is and will be the future," he says and adds that years ago you were deregulation of the profession of chef and waiter, but this school still educates today. As Mr Breznik has already said, the educational system cannot be based on legislation, but on the good part of the school; it is said that the school will educate the staff who will be valued on the market and can therefore be properly rewarded and found an appropriate job. Furthermore, we must also distinguish between formal education and knowledge. Today we often negotiate that formal education is a condition for obtaining a job and for making progress. And what happens to us then – we buy diplomas so that we can make progress. Mr Weber said that deregulation would bring lower wages to sellers and sellers and that the goal of traders was profit only. Yes, the objective of any private person or trader who goes into an activity that invests his or her resources is, of course, to make a profit and it is also necessary to realize that profit is essential for the development and progress of each company. For us to have merchants, a merchant must make a profit because it is a trade to restore it, and it is necessary to have the means to restore it. And to think that the goal of someone going into business not to make a profit is stupidity. Otherwise, why would I do that? As far as the amount or minimum payment is concerned, it has already been said that the collective agreement sets a minimum tariff class for both the seller’s post and the post of commercial operator. And what's the current situation in the store today? Despite the regulation of the profession, there are very few school traders today. When you put in an invitation to a job as a trader, people with a college education and masters of science apply for it. You know, you don't want to hire them because you know they're going to be bored in that job, they're being requalified for the job, and it's just a temporary job for them because they don't find jobs in their profession. It's much better to have someone who wants to do a trade job with their heart for whatever job it is. Let's say I give you an example – where will you go to buy good cycling equipment? To the dealer or to the former biker who will advise you, what bike do you need and what equipment? What about the skis? You'll be happy to have them sold to you by Jure Kosher, because you know exactly that you trust him because he knows what he's selling. There is much experience, especially that someone does it with heart and joy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u119	Dear President, Honourable Minister, fellow Members! I don't have much time. I'll try to be brief. Above all, I would focus on seeing our government act pragmatically, practically, as it has to do in one small company or corporations, which, after all, Slovenia is a small economy. From this point of view, I also assess this law, this amendment of legislation as an important step forward, which will allow anyone who has an entrepreneurship wire to say who is or is possibly producing some produce, to sell these products on their own with a commercial company or in a trade. For if we now look through the prism of legislation in the previous form, we should, of course, set up a trade, hire the relevant employed traders, but if this is not possible, of course they can do it in a more practical way and if they do not have an education, if they have a basic job as a pool or a sewing machine, they can also, without any reservations, set up a trade, an undertaking where it can then carry out this basic qualification. I think it's one form of legislation that also allows anyone who has an entrepreneurial cord or a commercial one to say so, to set up this activity. This also contributes to the growth of our economy, which is what we want after all. From this point of view, I also assess the very pragmatic approach of Minister Restovalska, his director, to solving these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Since I see there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm opening the list. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. In view of the stated conclusions that this debate is moving to an end, I will only allow myself to have a final thought. Look, what's ahead is not a deregulation of a trade profession, it's not some opening door to a better, a better world for people, a world of trade, a world of markets where, as Karl Marx put it, freedom, equality and Bentham rule, but something else. It is about shooting off some of those other security guards, some of them training guards who have remained in a certain sphere of the Slovenian economy, in order to make it easier and stimulate competition between employees, so that employees and workers will compete for each other's wages, price-collecting each other and big traders will have their hands and earn even higher profits. That's all this is about today and nothing else. At the same time, deregulation also means a fully graded education. With such legislative changes, the government or all its advocates make it clear that it is not up to you to be a society of educated individuals who have developed personal potential and thus have the possibility of rational political decision-making on their own destiny. No! No! The only thing you want to know about this is how to make people cheap, which is only to make a cheap pool of labor. This is also seen in various rhetorical establishments, which, because there is now a whole discussion, is that advocates of deregulation of this profession put on one side the heart, joy, talent, vein and I do not know what else and this completely distinguishes from some formal education, as if you had a formal education, but what kind of semi-automatically excludes the heart, joy, vein. Look, if this dichotomy really bothers you, if you really have such a big problem with it, then give more resources to public education instead of cutting them, the problem will be solved very quickly. And I'm gonna stop here. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! And I'm worried about one other thing. Minister Zdravko Restoršek told us that this is the first of the deregulation professions and that you plan even more. I want to know how the coalition works, if they clearly oppose the SD, which has two ministers, DeSUS opposes the two ministers, and then you tell me – three ministers, thank you – and then you even tell me that this proposal is coordinated. In addition, the consideration of the draft law on the labour market showed broad opposition to further deregulation, as it was opposed by representatives of trade unions and small and medium-sized traders at the OSCE, opposed the State Council and was also opposed by representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in the Economic and Social Council. In short, how do you propose with your majority sovereignly something that is opposed to the public and opposed to the profession? Then it happens to us that we come to the store and is a merchant, of course, an uneducated trader, can serve you, but when you ask for an original tax account, it calls someone who knows it; it is said that such a worker needs an assistant. We have recently met with a union of mobile workers whose profession is also deregulation, and believe me, they are not pleased at all. People get a minimum wage in the form of some journals and travel costs, and they get some money or some money on hand. What will be their pension? In short, what they're going to live on in their old age, and it's going to be the burden of the country again! Who, then, will have to take responsibility for our wrong decisions, and how will our craftsmen solve the foolishness we are taking today? Therefore, I suggest that you withdraw this proposal, because education was what Slovenia did differently, and it was worth the attention of other countries, because that is why we were credible because in every profession we had decently educated people working for a decent payment. Of course, capital is neglecting that today. We act as if there are jobs ahead, and now we are being hampered by regulation, so that everyone and everyone can be happy and everyone is working, and we know that this is not the case. There are no jobs and we will not solve this problem by deregulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you. I was talking about the fact that this law actually legitimizes cheap labour in Slovenia. I will only remind you of the words of the Vice-President or Vice-President of the European Commission who was in Slovenia. He expects us to cut the minimum wage. This law is going this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] No, you're out of time. That's it, I'm sorry. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no more time. Some of them still have it. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 14. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on takeovers. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u127	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! At its meeting on 28 May 2015, the Government approved the proposal for a takeover law and sent it to the National Assembly on a regular basis. The reasons behind the opening of the novel are as follows. Firstly, the launch of TARGET2-Securities, the institution of which is the Eurosystem and the objective of which is to remove obstacles to cross-border securities transactions and the integration of European settlement infrastructure, to comply with financial legislation; the payment of the monetary amount is also possible through the depository chain. Secondly, certain known business practices, the solutions we propose in this regard are: the establishment of a minimum performance threshold for the takeover; the obligation of the acquirer to disclose his plans for the future flag of the property of the target company; the addition of the provisions on the flag or collateral of the target company for the payment of securities; the obligation to disclose transactions with the securities of the target company, both by members of the management authorities and also members of the supervisory authorities; the addition of rules on the establishment of a fair remuneration in the exclusion of minority shareholders' withdrawals and in the event of a prior request for judicial protection. Finally, the legal basis for issuing decisions of the Agency shall be laid down against the acquisitions to which the voting rights are at rest. The point is that this is an ongoing topic because we have a situation where many state-owned companies, including the indignant Telekom, do not have their voting rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We have completely renewed the takeover legislation in 2006, with a view to regulating the field of concerted action, the system of choice, the time limit, the effectiveness of the takeover offer and, to my mind, the exceptions to the takeover threshold. Since 2006, this law has been amended six times. We have only amended it four times since 2012. Today's proposal is thus already a proposal for a fifth novel. The frequency of the change indicates, above all, that the legislator obviously does not know exactly what he wants or wants to do with the law. Even if we know that we still have companies in which the Republic of Slovenia, as owner, cannot exercise its voting rights. If I stay only around voting rights, we have tried to settle them four times since 2012, and this certainly shows a major problem in relation to it. With the first amendment, we wanted to regulate, inter alia, the determination of the proportion of voting rights of companies for the management or managers of mutual pension funds, to provide for additional exceptions, which do not require taking up the offer, to amend the provisions on civil sanctions for the holding of voting rights. The obligation to publish a decree from the Securities Market Agency has also been redefined. With the second amendment, we raised the threshold from 25 to 33% and amended the provisions on offences. A third amendment introduced additional exceptions that did not require a take-over offer and the possibility of exercising voting rights in the target company in order to protect the public interest, and a fourth made it possible for persons or persons acting in a coordinated manner who, because of the breach of the obligation to grant them the right to vote in the target company to stand still, to regain voting rights in the target company if they reduce the proportion of voting rights to the last legal portion which is otherwise protected under the provisions of the law. As already mentioned, the situation is still such that companies in which the Republic of Slovenia cannot exercise its voting rights and thus do not exercise its ownership functions in the way that they wish or expected or as the responsible owner of the sea. The news we are considering today is not just about this area. Today's amendment follows, according to our assessment, in particular two objectives. This is to create a legal environment that will allow the use of a T2S technical solution – a solution that will connect several different systems of countries, as well as different legal regimes, will reduce the number of intermediaries in cross-border trade in securities as well as reduced trading costs. The second objective is to align the provisions of the takeover legislation with the proposal for a law on non-materialised securities. What is particularly pleased about us in the Alliance is the regulation of the protection of the rights and interests of individual stakeholders and especially of workers. The acquirer can thus, as explained, undertake to respect certain non-financial criteria such as employment, company property, social development and the like. The notice thus lays down the obligation to disclose the acquirer's plans regarding the assets of the target company. It must disclose any flags or collateral of the acquisition company, which is also linked to the acquisition of the ATVP licence and the authorisation of the same ATVP on the effectiveness of the takeover bid. The Securities Market Agency will thus acquire new powers, in particular as regards the protection of the interests of the various stakeholders in the acquisition process. This would prevent future cases such as the last, Helios, and others. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on takeovers will certainly be supported in the Alliance in the first reading. We believe that the objectives and solutions offered by the novel are necessary. We also want to express our expectation that this time's novel is truly clever enough and ready to remain not only for the goals we are pursuing, but that they will and we will actually achieve these goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u131	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! We have before us the sixth Amendment to the Law on takeovers, which was last completely renewed in 2006. The new A-G laws have consistently followed the protection of minority shareholders, investors in the securities market and the securities market itself in the process of acquiring the controlling share. The proposal for the G novel contains changes that can be divided into three thematic clusters. Firstly, the proposed novelty will allow for the establishment of a single technical solution for securities settlement. This is the so-called TARGET2-Securities project, which will contribute to simpler and cheaper securities trading. Secondly, the proposed novelty will improve some procedural rules aimed at protecting minority shareholders and public interest. Thirdly, the novelty interferes with the issue of the seizure of voting rights and their return by decision ATVP. For this purpose, the law provided for a legal basis between transitional provisions. The fragmentation of the European post-trade infrastructure consequently reduces its effectiveness and also the effectiveness of the entire European securities market, since it does not allow the desired level of economies of scale to be achieved and thus reduces the average cost per transaction. The main reason for fragmentation is the need to provide locally effective infrastructure support in the domestic currency for the development of the domestic market. Despite the adjustment of the legal framework, the elimination of technical barriers and the capital and business integration of infrastructures over the last decade, the latter do not reflect expectations in reducing the number of existing market infrastructures. On the contrary, new infrastructures are emerging in all parts of the securities market. As a result, users are forced to take account of the complexity of the different trading, clearing and settlement systems if they want to operate on the Single European Securities Market. They must have access to different systems, increasing the complexity, costs and risks of cross-border transactions while seriously hampering the development of cross-border trade. Therefore, the costs of cross-border securities transactions continue to exceed the costs in the domestic environment. An essential contribution to facilitating securities trading is the possibility of technical transfer of securities accounts and cash accounts to TARGET2-Securities. As a result of this transfer, which results in only one record of all non-materialised securities, cross-border securities transactions will be possible on the basis of only two tasks, i.e. a task entered into the system for the seller and a task entered into the system for the buyer. Today, the execution of a transaction in which the seller and/or buyer are not persons from the country where the securities are registered in the central register requires the participation of several persons, intermediaries. However, reducing the number of persons involved means reducing the costs of the transaction and increasing its safety. With regard to the improvement of procedural rules, the proposal prohibits disclosure of the company's takeover. It is the so-called economic or non-economic interest of the company, such as the protection of the assets of the target company, the protection of the employment of employees in the target company and the development of the company after the takeover period. Interest will be disclosed by the acquiring company at the stage of the publication procedure in the acquisition prospectus. At the same time, the novelty commands a mandatory minimum performance threshold of 50% of all shares of the target company and of one share. In fact, when the acquirer reaches the take-over threshold, he must offer a mandatory take-over bid to be addressed to all securities holders. The mandatory bid seeks to protect the position of minority shareholders so that the acquirer does not acquire shares at a lower price than the price at which it acquired the controlling share. The price at which the acquirer purchases securities shall be legally determined so that it shall not be lower than the maximum price at which the acquirer has purchased securities in the last 12 months. However, there is no minimum percentage of all securities to be acquired by the acquirer in order to be bound by the takeover offer. The proposed novelty G determined this percentage at the rate of 50 % of all shares of the target company and of one share. Finally, the purpose of Article 29 of the draft law is to regulate procedurally the situation of acquirers who have been issued by the ATVP with a ban on the exercise of voting rights in the target company and, on the date of the application of this Act, fulfil the conditions for the cessation of voting rights. As a result of all the proposed improvements to the takeover legislation, we will support the amendment proposal in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u132	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The main amendment or provision of the new Law on takeovers, as seen in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, is the establishment of an explicit legal basis for issuing new decisions so-called the freezing of the voting rights of the State in undertakings which have been frozen because the State acted as an illegal acquirer. The transitional provisions of the draft law shall, in a procedural manner, regulate the status of the consignees to whom the Securities Market Agency issues a decision prohibiting the exercise of voting rights in the target company and, on the date of the application of this Act, fulfil the conditions for the cessation of the voting rights referred to in Article 63, paragraph 1, of the Law on takeover. They will be able to apply to the ATVP within three months to issue a decision in which the ATVP will determine the termination of the voting rights of the consignee in the target company. Under this provision, the ATVP will have an explicit legal basis for issuing new decision conclusions or for defrosting the voting rights of the State. The other major amendments to the bill, cited by the Government as proposing, are as follows. Firstly, to establish a legal environment that will allow the use of the T2S technical solution, TARGET2-Securities project in the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, to comply with the proposal for a law on non-materialised securities. Thirdly, establish a mandatory minimum performance threshold for a compulsory take-over bid of 50 % of the share of all shares of the target company and of one share. Fourthly, determine the obligation to disclose the acquirer's plans for the property of the target company and to transmit a statement of management of the target company on potential flags or collateral or on the potential commitment of the flag or collateral of the target company of the acquirer to pay the securities of the target company and to limit the flag or collateral practice of the target company of the acquirer to pay the securities of the target company. Fifthly, extend the obligation to disclose business with the securities of the target company to both members of the management bodies and members of the control bodies of the target company. Sixthly, to establish a correction mechanism which will take into account, in determining the fair price in the acquisition bid, the movement of the price of the securities of the target company in the organised securities market, in the event of a prior request for judicial protection. On a weekly basis, lay down additional conditions where the remuneration offered by the acquirer to minority shareholders when excluded from the target company following the previous successful voluntary takeover offer may be considered fair. For all seven of these, we will also provide for the amendment of the law in the first reading in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u134	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! We have before us a proposal for a law that we consider appropriate in the Desus Group for further consideration, given that it includes a number of meaningful solutions. The proposal adapts the existing legal provisions to market standards for the execution of corporate actions under TARGET2-Securities, the Eurosystem project. This will help facilitate securities trading by establishing a single pan-European technical solution for securities settlement. The bill also ensures greater transparency of the takeover procedure, which we think is extremely important in the Desus Group. The obligation to disclose the acquirer’s plans regarding the assets of the target company is widespread, and in particular the acquisition of the Authority’s approval for the securities market for the takeover bid. The ATVP’s judgment on the effectiveness of the takeover bid will focus even more on the existence of circumstances relating to the flag or security of securities and the assets of the target company for the payment of the securities of that target company. Unfortunately, in the past, we have often witnessed unacceptable practices when the assets of the target company were being set up to purchase shares of the same company. This, however, allowed for a good knowledge of legislation and the possibility of avoiding certain circumstances. This was logically followed by the well-known financial exhaustion of societies, which had an irreparable, markedly negative impact on our entire economy. Therefore, the acquirer should make it clear that the shares he takes will not be burdened. In our parliamentary group, we also welcome the extension of the disclosure of securities transactions to members of the management bodies and members of the supervisory authorities, as we believe this will help to control the trade in internal information. In the transitional provisions, the draft law is also intended to finally solve the complication with the State's seized voting rights in companies where it has exceeded the threshold. While in some companies the State has been above the threshold for years, it did not have to be given the takeover bid if the State and the related persons did not acquire any shares. The problem arose when state-owned companies decided to put part of the assets into management and then these operators bought shares from other state-owned companies. At that time, the State should have made a takeover offer and, of course, it did not do so, so the ATVP took her votes in such cases. The draft law before us in the transitional provision procedurally regulates the situation of the takers who have been deprived of their votes by the ATVP. They will now be able to submit a request to the ATVP within three months to issue a decision establishing the termination of the voting rights of the consignee in the target company. In the Desus Group, we will be even more careful when we further consider the proposal for a takeover law, as the country is looking forward to the return of voting rights at the time of its adoption at the Triglav Insurance Office. While this would be a reason for joy in normal circumstances, unfortunately, the current proposal for a decision in the country's capital investment management strategy, when the voting rights of this person are restored, would make the Triglav Insurance Company a strategic investment, which, as we have repeatedly stressed, we strongly oppose. As we say, we feel that the bill is suitable for further consideration, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u136	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u137	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honourable Minister with the team! The Social Democrats will be the amendment to the Act on takeovers, which essentially saves the anomaly that has led to certain takeovers, including the Republic of Slovenia as a strategic manager in a significant part, and which has been banned by the Securities Market Agency from exercising voting rights in targeted companies, this right has been restored, of course, supported. This novel will allow the Agency's already issued legislative decisions to be lifted, repealed or amended and replaced by new conclusions. This means, in a specific case, that the Republic of Slovenia will also have the opportunity to exercise the public interest in ensuring a successful business and growth in companies where it acts as owners and currently cannot exercise these rights. Social Democrats are pleased that the amendment provides for a mandatory minimum performance threshold in the case of a mandatory take-over offer of 50% and one share, and that this strengthens in particular the protection of securities holders with a minority share. The additional amendment introduces an appropriate method of determining the fair remuneration offered by the acquirers to minority shareholders during the pre-receiving period, deemed justly to be the compensation offered in the voluntary takeover bid on the basis of which the acquirer acquired shares representing at least 90 % of the voting shares of the company and which were the subject of this voluntary offer. The bill or its novelty provides for a greater takeover of the acquisition process by extending the obligation to disclose the acquisition plans of the target companies and by introducing a solution which requires the acquirer to demonstrate that the payment of the shares of the target company is not, or will not be, set aside by the shares or assets of the target company. If he does not do so, it will be considered that the takeover bid has not been successful. We regret in some way only that we have not implemented such solutions before. It is also crucial that the novelty strengthens or regulates the control of stock exchanges companies, broadens sanctions for breaches of commitments in relation to takeover, and substantially raises existing standards that have reinforced the crisis situation in Slovenia in many ways. For this reason, we also assess the need for social democrats to step up and continue such efforts to regulate this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u138	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Mr Miha Kordish is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the United Left, we estimate that the new Law on takeovers brings some improvements, but we are still held back. There are two reasons for that. The first reason is that there is a lack of ambition in certain places, since it is already difficult to regulate this area by law, and the second reason is that it does not contain solutions for non-financial commitments that protect employees. It is therefore crucial that we introduce precisely these solutions when further considering this law. In view of the practices we have been following in the area of acquisitions in the last decade, some of the solutions to the amendment of the law are essential. From manager's purchases or so-called tycoon acquisitions to the third wave of privatisation marked by untransparent and uneconomic behaviour of both SDH and Government and DUTB or bad banks. An additional condition for the compulsory takeover is the extended obligation to disclose the securities of the target company in taking over both administrative and supervisory authorities, the additional requirement for excluding minority shareholders and certain other solutions that are of a technical nature will at least contribute to the transparency of the procedures, but will not effectively deter fraud and abuse of acquisitions, for which the highest price is paid by the employees and the wider society in general. At this point, it is necessary to draw attention to the provision of the Social Agreement, which binds all signatories and is set out in Chapter 11: "A change in the takeover legislation in a way that, in accordance with the European rules on acquisitions and the Law on the participation of workers in management, ensures greater awareness of employees, greater transparency of the takeover procedure and reduces the possibility of abuse." However, there is not a word in the bill on employee information, nor a word on mechanisms to ensure co-management rights for workers and workers. The minimum measure should ensure that, in the course of the business acquisition process, the representatives of the employees are informed, in good time and in full, of the takeover process itself. It is crucial that they are informed of any change in the procedure, in particular in the part concerning the economic and social situation of employees and respect for the rights of employees. The most critical situation is the sale of state stakes in companies, since workers' representatives are never invited or involved in the acquisition process. This is totally unacceptable because it is not a matter of private ownership, but the interest of employees as a citizen and citizens should be expressed more strongly. It's not like that. It is crucial that employees' representatives be included in the acquisition arrangements for non-price or non-financial work. The seller’s interest, especially when it comes to state property, must not be solely the amount of the purchase. This is also reflected in Article 67 of the Constitution, which stresses the provision of its economic, social and environmental function as regards property. Amendments to the law do not eliminate problems and abuses that have arisen, for example, in the sale of Helios. From the start of the takeover procedures to the actual takeover, the Helios administration quickly dismissed workers and put pressure on employees. Formally, the new owner did not violate the legislation and the informal administration merely carried out what the future owner had demanded of them. So much for employers' kindness. Employees often encounter difficulties when they want to contact their future owner or potential owners, because they do not want to reveal who they really are. Thus, employees' representatives have no opportunity to know what the new owner's plans are either in business or in the field of human resources. The law should therefore include the obligation that the component of the takeover bid is also a human resources plan which should be in line with the business plan. In view of the fact that the proposal contains obligations to disclose the plans of the acquirer and the management of the target company on potential flags or collateral of the target company, it is clear that the inclusion of the personnel plan would be meaningful and necessary. Non-financial commitments are key – to take into account the interests of employees and the local environment in order to take account of the social and environmental dimension of property. The main problem is that these non-financial commitments are often treated as State aid, which is prohibited by the European Union's legislative framework, although practice proves that this is very flexible and selective, but in the interests of capital. However, non-financial commitments are not state aid, and that is exactly what needs to be changed in legislation. The key problem with non-financial commitments is their respect. Capital promises a number of things, but examples show that it will always find its way around these commitments to find a way to forgive, reduce wages and reduce labour rights standards. If there's no prosecutor, there's no judge. Therefore, an independent body would need to monitor these commitments and, in the event of a breach, also have the possibility of sanctioning and, in the latter instance, the possibility of breaking the contract. The proposal for amendments to the Law on takeovers will enable the Securities Market Agency to issue decisions that will restore the voting rights withdrawn. We all remember the privatisation of the Ljubljana Aerodrome. The key decisions concerning the Ljubljana airport were taken by private speculative financial funds owned by 15% of the company. The result was that the State did not have voting rights at the company's assemblies. As we see, the restoration of voting rights is not a difficult task. It is clear that the State has not taken any decision to improve its situation and has regained its voting rights and retained Airfields in its possession. The airport was sold and is now practically in the hands of the German state. Since the country is a bad host, it is best to sell everything to another country, although Airfield is by all standards a key infrastructure, even though it is a business that has done very well and wanted to invest and develop. But it was the financial funds that kept this investment. And if I can afford a little cynicism in this place: the sale of the Aerodrome was more transparent than the sale of Telekom. Why? Because in the first case, the financial speculators made an honest decision, and with Telekom they do it from the background. The proposal for amendments to the Takeover Act follows only the interests of capital. It regulates relations between individual capital owners, regulates legal relations in the capital market. Since procedures will at least be more transparent because voting rights will be restored to the country, this is to a lesser extent positive for the employees and the wider community, as it will prevent any fraud, what a purely speculative takeover. For such practices, workers and workers as well as their families and the local environment pay the highest price. All solutions that would follow the interest of work are clearly omitted, although the commitments to these solutions are contained in the Social Agreement. We must be aware that legislative solutions are not a magic pill to eliminate employee abuse, forgiveness, disinvestment, mobbing and bullying, that is, all the practices that we can see after taking over, especially after the privatisation of state property. The answer is clear: Economic democracy here is that tool. A democracy of corporate governance where employees and the local and wider community must be given the opportunity to exercise their interests. We need open books and democratic mechanisms of workers to control the administration. People's interests are the long-term development of the company, as much employment as possible, involvement in the local environment, decent work and decent pay. Narrow financial motives must go beyond the social and environmental component of ownership. In the United Left, we will not oppose the changes to the takeover law, but we call on the Government to provide legislative solutions – or at least support these solutions – that will guarantee at least the minimum rights of workers and workers in the takeover procedures and take into account the interests of the development of the whole country and the whole community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u140	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u141	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The takeover law, which we are considering today, in some ways represents, establishes two key innovations that we see, and that is to increase the transparency of acquisitions and simplify securities trading procedures. It is a step forward, but of course things have not yet been arranged in the way we would like them to. If I put forward just four of the most crucial changes that we see in the law, then I would say that the Securities Markets Agency has an important role to play. We know that some acquisitions have raised a number of questions over the past year about further work and the role of other stakeholders and institutions in protecting the interests of individual stakeholders. These increasingly require the establishment of mechanisms that would oblige sellers and buyers to take into account also non-economic aspects of the legal business. It is therefore a matter of job protection, the assets of the target company and the development of this company during the pre-eminent period. The notice before us today thus introduces the obligation to disclose the acquirer's plans regarding the assets of the target company and requires the management of the target company to forward a statement to the Securities Market Agency on any indirect or indirect flags or collateral of the target company. The role of the Agency as the supervisory authority is therefore extremely important, we all find. We are wondering whether this change will really contribute to the more responsible preparation and disclosure of the recipient's true purpose for the future operation of the target company. The fact is that the legal business of the flag of property can lead to the disinvestment of the target company which threatens its continued existence. Since in the process of proving compliance with the condition of the non-existence of a direct or direct flag or the collateral of the target company, the acquirers will prove this in particular by making statements, in New Slovenia we doubt that the novelties will achieve their purpose. In addition, another novelty introduced by the novelty is the obligation to disclose transactions with the securities of the target company to members of the management bodies and also to members of the control bodies of the target company. Information on all securities transactions of the target company during the 12-month period prior to the date of acceptance of the takeover offer shall be disclosed by the members of the management bodies and members of the supervisory authorities, as well as by their immediate family members and legal persons in which they have a majority share or share of voting rights. The aim of the proposer in this correction is good, according to our assessment, and the question is whether this disclosure will actually contribute to greater transparency in the acquisition process and to strengthening the principle of the prohibition of trade in internal information. The third novelty that we think is important for us to put forward is a minimum performance threshold for a mandatory takeover bid of 50% of all shares of the target company with a voting right and one share that will prevent the unequal treatment of minority shareholders. The current law does not set a minimum performance threshold because it is unequally dealt with by minority shareholders in contravention of the general principles of European takeover law, under which all securities holders must be treated equally. Another thing we see as the unloading or simplification of securities trading and we support is the TARGET2-Securities project, or short T2S, which will create easier trading of securities, as the technical transfer of securities accounts from cash accounts to T2S will require only one record of all intangibleised securities and the possibility of eliminating cross-border securities transactions on the basis of only two tasks, namely a task entered into the system for the seller and a task entered into the system for the buyer. Today, the execution of a transaction in which the seller or buyer is not from the country where the securities are registered in the central register requires the participation of several persons or intermediaries, which will prolong and encourage all of this. Reducing the number of persons involved after our assessment certainly means reducing transaction costs and increasing its safety. As I said, we think it is a new step forward, a step towards simplifying certain procedures for securities trading and also a step towards greater transparency in acquisition procedures. Of course, all the solutions in the novel are not in line with our expectations. Nevertheless, in this first reading, we will not oppose this novel, and we will allow it to move on to the next reading, in which we hope that these shortcomings will be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u142	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u143	Dear President, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The issue of takeovers is one of the more difficult cases in corporate law, so the question is how many of us are professionally qualified here, so that we can discuss the changes in this law competently, especially because of the danger of being qualified as non-experts and uncalled for such a debate. In the case of this law, I fully trust the Government, as a proponent, that it has drawn up a proposal that is justified and genuinely ensures greater transparency and prevents the distortions that have occurred in recent times in taking over, such as Helios. Nevertheless, it does not seem right to me that we often change and supplement laws too often. The revised takeover Act No 1 was adopted in 2006 and is intended to transpose Directive 2006/25 into our legal order. As early as 2008, a decision was taken to establish TARGET2-Securities and we amended or supplemented the law six times, twice in 2012, once in 2013 and once in 2014. And in these years, we have not been able to bring the law in line with the regulation of the European Union. That's why we're changing the law again today, at least that's what the explanation says. Of course, it is difficult to talk about a stable environment of the economy under such conditions. This is not an exceptional case, a better rule, and therefore the words of the Minister of Justice may be used to ensure that the laws do not change because of individual or specific actions. We must therefore provide a comprehensive solution before us. The proposer briefed us on examples of practice in France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. It may also be useful to present a practice from countries where we have taken over the regulation of companies with which we have a great deal of cooperation or from which the takers come, such as Germany, Austria or the Czech Republic. Let me reiterate that I trust the applicant, and I expect that a law will be drawn up in further processing procedures, which will not need to be amended again in six months or a year' time, because we will find that there has been another takeover disaster. However, I would recommend that the powers of the Council of Workers or Employees, which are linked to the strategic development of the target society and to the position of employees, may be spelled out as precisely as possible. In particular, I propose to exclude in Article 34 the provision referring to solidarity with securities holders in the event of false references. The Council of Workers or Workers can only use the data that is available to them, and these are usually extremely modest. Of course, we can only talk about responsibility when the opinion deliberately shows different information from those provided by the management of the target company. I also propose that the law sets out the obligation that the management of the target company should organise a hearing of representatives of the acquiring company by the Council of Workers, if explicitly required. In restricting voting rights, I think it would be better if all voting rights were taken in the event that the shares were acquired, but the takeover offer was not published in accordance with the law. Voting rights would be deducted only for those shares which have been acquired in contravention of this law and do not represent more than two per cent of all voting rights shares. In the event that the volume is greater, they shall be deducted from the disposal of shares which have been acquired in contravention of the procedures defined by the Acquisition Act. Let me conclude with the idea that, however, the law must be adopted and the profession must commit itself to the practical realization of the objectives they have set as reasons for the change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Mr. Franc Ly ready. You're giving up. Then Mr Franz Lai has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u145	Madam President, thank you for your floor. A respected minister with a team, dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't know if we're even aware of how important the law and the change of this law is before us. The takeover law is an extremely demanding technical procedural law that regulates the process of taking over or, in the domestic sense, purchasing companies. I am pleased that these changes are taking place, which contribute to greater transparency of the acquisition process and also bring new disclosure requirements in the catalogue, as well as the supervisory authority of the Securities Market Agency. I am sorry, however, that we are only now considering this change because, as we are all aware, we would have caught a number of large fish in mud water during this time. And it is in these changes that I see that in some ways they are sharpening this water and reducing the possibilities of such unusual acts. I will not go into this law and into these changes, because matter is extremely heavy and difficult, but also very hard to understand for the wider crowd. On the one hand, this is clear, because the capital market is not developed in Slovenia, we lack traditions in this area, which is very common in many developed Western countries. However, I would like to point out why it is still worthwhile to support efforts to confirm these changes. In addition to everything I have mentioned, changes bring novelties, and positive ones, by excluding negative practices. This is very important. Here I am referring to various speculations, both in equity insurance, with the acquisition of the target company, by concealing information, by concealing the intention of the acquirer with the target company, which can often have extremely strong, large, far-reaching negative consequences, not only on this society, but on the whole region and to a large extent on the entire economy of Slovenia. Secondly, which is important, which is positive: I see additional protection of small shareholders. There is also a negative practice, and it is the last moment to stop it, that small shareholders will not be exposed and will receive a fair compensation. Last but not least, we must not forget the workers. Employees are very important for economic society as well as for our society as a whole. It is important that they are properly informed to obtain reliable information through these disclosures. They are now given the opportunity and the opportunity to make a written comment. While this comment is not binding, it may in some way affect further acquisition processes. It is also very important to see in these disclosures or brochures what will happen to this target society, whether this activity is maintained or not, and in what way. That is to say whether there is a decrease in the scope of activity or diversification. We must not forget, however, that at times, for a variety of societies, the strategic importance for the existence and development of a real strategic partner is, at the right moment, a taker who has fair intentions and makes it possible for this society not only to take care of its profits, but also to provide in some way for this targeted acquisition society in all these respects that I have mentioned. It is important that the Takeover Act, with all the changes envisaged, is friendly so as not to deter buyers or takeovers, both domestic and foreign. This is of paramount importance to the entire national economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Vice President. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! With a solution to the transitional provisions, the State is finally expected to regain voting rights in companies where it has exceeded the threshold. This brings us great joy in Desus, as it will enable the country to re-vote as the majority owner of some key companies. The insurance company Triglav is one of the companies where the state has long exceeded the threshold of acquisition, but it did not have to be given the takeover bid if the State and the related persons did not acquire any shares. However, it happened that some state-owned companies decided to put part of their assets in management, and these operators bought shares from another state company. Thus, if, for example, Luka Koper, as the acquirer, bought only one share of the Triglav Insurance Company, the State should make a takeover offer, which it did not do for enormous costs. At that time, the Securities Market Agency seized voting rights in order to exceed the threshold. We support and welcome the proposed solution in Desus, as it would again allow this owner to manage fully the equity shares they have in companies. This story has been drawn too long since March 2013, and some decisions of the competent authorities have been quite questionable. The fact that the state lost its votes in Triglav, Telekom, the Aerodrome is directly unheard of. In particular, the State had a 64.19 % share in the Triglav Insurance Company and its business was decided by small and other shareholders who together had a strong under half or only one third of the votes. As in Desus, it is important for the state to return to voting rights, it is also important to us how the story in these societies will continue. Once again, I must point out that in Desus we insist that Insurance Triglav remains a strategic company. Why? Primarily because of the proportion of Zpiz, to which the people have been clearly identified in the referendum, with a large majority. In addition, the company is currently doing very well; Triglav will make 85 million euros in net profit this year and will spend 56.8 million euros on dividends. I'm asking you, why sell a good company? On the one hand, there are many indicators showing how well this company stands and on the other hand we are listening to the same argument that the insurance market needs to be consolidated. But let us ask ourselves the following question: What does it mean for a society with such a tradition as the Triglav Insurance Company to get a foreign owner? Do we think that the Slovenians might be more likely to make insurance policies with some insurance company that has adjacent insurance in our address? We're sure as hell not. So let's solve the problem of disposing of voting rights, keep a company like the Triglav Insurance Company, which works well, as this is dictated by simple farming logic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Say hello to the minister with the team! Nice greetings to all your colleagues as well! We have a change of the takeover law ahead of us. The fact is that the roof law was passed in 2006 and many novelties have been adopted since then. As has already been said, this takeover law has been amended six times — not surprisingly for a country that has no tradition of corporate governance. It is necessary to know that every time the law was adopted in the parliamentary procedure, it was with some desire to cover all the holes that could arise in some implementation of the legislation. In order for this to happen, both buyers and sellers must be committed to certain standards, which unfortunately has not proved to be a fact in our country most often in the past. Another problem that dictates that this legislation is constantly being supplemented is that our courts and our legal profession have not played their part in cases where the conditions for the implementation of this legislation have arisen. Most of the time opinions were put on the table, and the next step was the pressure on the legislator to re-establish certain matters by amending the law, which we all know to some extent is very difficult. That is why I have to say that I agree with this amendment or this amendment to the law, because it brings some good solutions, including new regulation in the field of the European Union. It is clear, however, that the law is written to address the inefficiency of certain state funds and states as such in the case of individual acquisitions from the past when individual companies fell asleep in the sense of implementing their own legislation. Nevertheless, I think that this is also a solution that is in the law that allows individual companies to unfreeze these voting rights – I think it is a number of state-owned companies – in the right direction and that this will also contribute in some way to greater transparency in taking over. It is also important that there is an obligation to disclose the acquirer's plans to individual target companies, which in some ways increases the transparency of these transactions. This is also the case for the disclosure of individual transactions with the securities of the target company. Thus, there are changes that go in the direction of greater transparency in these transactions in the future. So the law itself is definitely making improvements, but it is true that we are in the first stage of the hearing, so that in the next consideration of the individual solution it is possible to improve, as has been pointed out by the other discussers. I am pleased, however, that a certain segment of this novel is also intended to protect small shareholders who have not been sufficiently protected by the legislation so far. So I support the proposal for a new law. As I said, the implementation of the law always depends on those who in some way implement it, those who supervise it; we are talking mainly about the judicial system. In the case of certain anomalies, decisions should also be taken fairly quickly. Therefore, I believe that these supplements will actually provide a better instrument to protect both buyers and buyers and ultimately to protect companies that will be marketed for sale, acquisition and other business.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek. Get Andrei Potočnik ready for her, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that in this second law of the Ministry of the Economy there is a broad consensus in this first reading of the law. It's actually hard stuff. In some parts, we can trust the Ministry, the government services and the ATVP to now coordinate this fourth attempt to restore voting rights, and we believe that this will be the case in reality. Some acquisitions in recent years have raised many questions, including the role of the ATVP, authorities and other supervisory institutions in protecting the different interests of stakeholders in acquisitions, from sellers, buyers, and ultimately small shareholders. But I think this novel is touching the worker. With the so-called prospectus and the undertaking of the takeover, there is a little more responsibility here to describe the real purpose of taking over and also the way in which the takeover is carried out, which is essential for us Members of the SMC. I would like to make my own definition a little bit more specific by Articles 10 and 17. By means of the proposed solutions to these two Articles, paragraph 7 of Article 32 provides further that the acquirer of the Securities Market Agency must demonstrate that, for the payment of securities that are the subject of a takeover offer or have been acquired before the takeover offer, there is no way, directly or indirectly, that it has made or committed itself to the flag or to the collateral of the property of the target company. There have been many, not violations, but let's say, acts, and that's why we think that's the key. In fact, the proposed solutions are intended to limit the different practices of the acquirers in order to give or undertake to the acquisition of the securities of the target company to a flag or security of securities which they do not actually own. Last but not least, Article 17. The new fourth point in Article 53(1) shall complement the circumstances in which the takeover offer is considered to be unsuccessful. In accordance with that supplement, the takeover bid will not be successful if the acquirer is unable to prove or will not be able to prove that the payment of the securities to which the takeover is related is not in any way, directly or indirectly, given or committed to the flag or the collateralisation of the property of the target company. This moment, it is said that the ATVP can refuse the offer, among other things, it seems to us that it is crucial. It may also be a key solution that the proposal extends the obligation to disclose securities transactions to members of management bodies as well as to members of supervisory authorities. The proposed solution will contribute to greater transparency of the acquisition process and to strengthening the principle of the prohibition of trade in internal information. I would also like to mention this because it has just been said to provide information to employees in the target company that we have this provision in Article 66, paragraph 4. While this is the law of the Member State in which the target company is established and this law is used to provide information to employees in the target company. So completely without regulation how employees should have this information, but we're not. In this first reading, we certainly support the law itself in the SMC. It is likely that there will be something else in the process that will be added to the amendments, perhaps on the basis of the Law-Legal Service. We believe that all the goals that are large, more than ten, will indeed be realized and that it will be possible to realize this law as envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Breznik ready, Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u153	Madam President, thank you for your word. A lot of things have already been said, over the lines. The subject is really tougher, professional. As my predecessors have already said, the essence of this law seems to me to be additional protection, including for employees. In fact, if we do not accept such a novel, we will remain in a state as it is and as Helios did. I agree with previous implementations that there are absolutely more ideas, additional fuses, and in the SMC Group we are absolutely open to any new improvements. As an example, it was stated in one of the parliamentary positions regarding this new institute that the acquirer should not have placed securities that are not yet owned by the acquiring company or assets of the target company in order to declare it somewhere by declaration or by additional evidence. If there is any other better idea, we can pre-debate this matter absolutely by means of a debate. However, I find it crucial that Mr Kordiš's implementation, which is not currently in the Chamber, is not enough for employees. The custodian herself is that we want to prevent business practice in order to make, as mentioned above, the securities to which the takeover bid relates, in any way to give or commit to the flag or security of the security of the target company, which is not owned by the acquirer, or to the property of the target company. This means that, indirectly, a new objective is to be achieved, in order to ensure that the target companies can only be entered by capital-appropriate acquirers, who can ensure the further development and existence of the companies taken over, in particular by their capital, but not by other financial levers. This seems to me to be an essential or very important insurance policy for employees in these companies. So it's a little different whether I'm coming to take over a company with my own capital or I'm coming to take over when I hire a loan and I'm putting into insurance the company's future assets to do some kind of machination. As far as sanctions are concerned. Yes, the fact that the ATVP does not have sanctions is true if the commitment in the prospectus is not respected. But she's an indemnity responsible company, which she wrote in the prospectus. This means that the ATVP can file a criminal complaint for a false statement. But all this is happening post-festum, that's true. The penalty that I see is actually more in the fact that the prospectus is made known to the public, including workers who are employed in these companies, and in this way they can get to know each other. It also seems important to me that a statement by the management of the target company also establishes an additional verification of the identity of the recipient of the statement of the existence of circumstances, as management must also declare by its statement that it will not provide collateral for assets or securities. So much for now. If I have to, I'll be in touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrej Shircelj, followed by Mr. Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u155	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Today, in the introduction, I have said a number of key points on which I can say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support the takeover bill, at least in this first reading. The novelty already discussed by some of my predecessors from various political options is that the amendment of the law allows for the freezing of those voting rights, in particular by the State which was issued by the decision of the Securities Market Agency at that time. Talking about it today is a sad story. Representatives of the State have also violated the takeover legislation and have been sanctioned, most often in companies with monopolistic positions, where flows, cash flows are billions, two billion, even three billion in some companies. In these companies where the country has a majority share, this is unacceptable. In particular, what is the basis of this law is Article 63, first paragraph, so that after the entry into force of this Act, all those persons may apply to the Securities Market Agency within three months to issue a decision in which the Agency will find the termination of the voting rights of the consignee in the target society. Under this provision, the ATVP will have an explicit legal basis for issuing new so-called decision conclusions to defrost the voting rights of the State. What seems important to us at the time of the entry of a foreign capital, or even at the time of the acquisition of certain companies that are not residents of the Republic of Slovenia, is the legal environment which has enabled the use of the T2S technical solution, the TARGET2-Securities project in the Republic of Slovenia, which is some of the standards that are very important because they will not only connect the different systems of countries, but will also link the different, colleagues, legal order of those countries. That is why it is so important that we also introduce this standard into the new Law on takeovers. What I have highlighted today is also the extension of the obligation to disclose the securities of the target company to members of the management bodies, as well as to members of the control bodies of the target company. Most of the time these members of the authorities had some interests, they were associated with some companies, they were in business relations with some companies that took over a new company where these people were in the management or supervisory authorities. The obligation to disclose transactions is therefore guaranteed. The next point I would like to draw attention to, what the law brings, which I see as a benefit, is the correction mechanism, which will take into account, when determining the fair price in the takeover bid, the evolution of the price of the securities of the target company in the organised securities market in the previous request for judicial protection. This too seems very important to me in this novel. In particular, it seems important to me to lay down additional conditions when the remuneration offered by the acquirer to smaller shareholders when excluded from the target company following the previous successful voluntary takeover offer can be considered fair. And that's what I think is absolutely necessary. Most of the time in these companies we had, we could say, outlawed minority shareholders who complained. I think this is precisely the provision that eliminates this – the one who takes over has some concern for the minority shareholders of these companies. And that's exactly where the core or the last solution is to deal with some of the consequences that we've been following in recent years in Slovenia. I believe that the law is complex and therefore a good debate on this law requires a good knowledge of corporate law and economics. We need to discuss this law with the utmost precision, because this is the law under which the future of Slovenia can take place. If we had talked earlier about the amendment of the Trade Act, about some of the problems some have pointed out, but at this stage in the debate, in the first reading of this law, as a Member, we wanted a broader debate, the search for solutions, perhaps certain amendments, because these are laws that will allow us to see how foreign capital will enter, under what conditions, how they will take over, what will happen to those companies in Slovenia that employ the largest number of people, and so on. So, there's a whole series of things where these societies have kind of been around lately, they haven't been moving. They did not have the right owners – on the one hand, the state without the right to vote stands, on the other hand, minority shareholders, who were kind of typified. The authorities of these companies did not have any serious objectives on the part of the owners; they did not know where to decide which direction to take these companies. And we can see that most of these companies have somehow fallen asleep. They fell asleep, remained at some point, and this is the last, which is due to perhaps a lack of normality or a tracking condition that occurred in these companies, so that we lost voting rights by the Securities Market Agency in the country, which was the result of all of the above. Once again, at least in this first reading, I support this amendment of the law, and I think it is in the right place at the right time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Get Tomaž Gantar ready, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! Today it has already been mentioned that this is the sixth amendment of the takeover law. This law, if we go to the beginning, is intended primarily to take over companies – it is said that one company takes over another society in different ways, or to establish a third society or to simply merge or merge – that all these processes are under the control of the State, under the control of the special services set up by the State, and that they are guaranteed, even if we are talking not only about the acquiring society, but also about the company that is taken over, rights also to minority shareholders. Because most of the time it happens that minority shareholders can be uprooted. Here, when we are talking about the mandatory minimum performance threshold for the mandatory takeover bid of 50% of all shares of the target company and of one share, we can certainly say that by such a solution we are preventing unequal treatment of minority shareholders or the possibility that minority shareholders should be treated differently, which is to be welcomed. He's here to say hello. There is also greater transparency or transparency in all procedures, which means that this transparency should also provide more information, not only to persons who are part of the takeover, but also wider. If we are looking at all this law and all legislation in the area of takeovers in Slovenia, then we can say that so far the whole process has been relatively untransparent. Even if legislative solutions have been introduced in such a way as to refer to certain international rules, to certain directives and so on, there has always been a possibility of a certain margin, so that many acquisitions have occurred intransparency. Here I can recall a variety of so-called stock parking with a third company in order to take over the company. And this is what makes the Slovenian economy a mark today. Unfortunately, this has already happened and this process has been halted in some way, but all those shortcomings that have occurred, all those illegal acts can't be fixed back, which is a shame. The other thing that is typical of the takeover legislation in Slovenia is that this legislation, based on European legislation, has not attracted more companies to Slovenia or, if you want, more investments, more people who would not only take over Slovenian companies, but would also develop these Slovenian companies. These are relatively few, and Slovenia is not interested in foreign capital because of this legislation and also because of the other conditions it offers. I am talking about capital, which also brings with it greater added value as well as greater employment. If we are talking about the non-economic aspect and what we are saying is that the acquisition society also needs to present non-economic aspects, such provisions are to be welcomed, particularly in terms of job protection and thus the preservation of jobs. It is important to know that capital has its way, but that countries both in the European Union and elsewhere give a major emphasis to taking over jobs, especially because today unemployment in the world, especially in Europe, is extremely large. As a result, the aim of this process is to keep these jobs or to create new jobs. From this point of view is this law and these solutions to greet. If we are talking about Slovenia as a country with an undeveloped capital market, then we must also look at this legislation from the point of view or from the perspective in order to further develop the capital market through this law. And in view of the simplifications that are being prepared in relation to securities, with regard to securities trading, in particular with regard to procedures that will be simpler, it is certainly in order to welcome these solutions as well. With regard to transitional provisions, in particular those relating to the taking of voting rights in certain state-owned enterprises, my colleagues have also talked about this, I would say the following. The fundamental error that voting rights have been forfeited to these companies is in the management of the companies. It seems that the management of businesses, the directors leading these companies, were no match for the provisions that the law had already imposed at the time. The ATVP has only done its job with its decisions, and it is right that it has done it, and it is such a law. And the laws have to be respected here. However, that the leadership has violated this law in state-owned companies is another issue. I think it's only right in this case that the law is protected. They are now given this back, and these voting rights are being returned to these companies, but not because these companies are once again violating any takeover or any other legislation, because there is still a lot to be done here in corporate governance in state-owned enterprises, state-owned property and so on. If we are talking here about the Triglav Insurance Company – they were given voting rights because they were in violation of the legislation. Leadership is one that, regardless of whether someone wants to own an insurance company owned or owned by another. Even if you want to talk about state ownership and influence – if not other – the state as owner must at least ensure that the leaders are qualified to actually run such companies. And here I am always for the respect of marriage. If the law is not good, the law should be changed. Otherwise, the law must also be respected by those who run state-owned companies. As a result, they have no greater rights than everyone else. Because it would be wrong for those who run state enterprises to have greater rights than those who run, for example, private businesses. Personally and even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be in this process, according to the first reading, the law is supported by further consideration. Some provisions will need to be further examined and also amended in some way or made clearer, particularly in terms of transparency. I think this can be done in further procedures. Due to the transparency of the acquisitions themselves, due to the transparency of the economy in Slovenia, and also to make as many new investments in the country as possible and to the greatest possible employment, a happy path to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Get Mr. Marko Ferruga ready, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to everyone again! Surely this novel law is the one you would have expected or would have needed many years earlier. Although today it is easy to discuss what would have been nice years ago, given that during this period we have been able to gain a lot of experience from anomalies in taking over businesses, which has been happening for many years. Unfortunately, certain solutions were not adopted here at the time, perhaps with a view, perhaps not; they are difficult to guess about today. One such is undoubtedly the fact that it allowed the assets of the target company to be set up for the purchase of shares of the same company. We have a similar anomaly in the banking system in some way, and I don't think it's been eliminated. This means that you can obtain credit and secure the repayment of this loan with the item of purchase, which has happened and which in the final stage led to wild ownership in all past years. With some of the provisions that this law now provides and changes, I think that an appropriate instruction from the Bank of Slovenia on the granting of credit would also be given and many tragic cases of these acquisitions would not be discussed today. The fact is that companies could not be competitive in this way, they did not invest in their development. There have also been incomprehensible forgives, but above all they have not been prepared for the crisis that has befell us, us and other countries, and as a result, due to the combination of all the effects, these companies have also pushed us across the edge. Without a doubt, this amendment deserves support for removing some of the lack of transparency mentioned by the anomalies, including for adapting to the European system, the Eurosystem, for simplifying procedures, for eliminating the unequal treatment of minority shareholders and, last but not least, for the possibility of returning voting rights to the country where they were taken. From this title, on my part, this novel will receive support and we will certainly consider it appropriate for further consideration. As it is said, it is unfortunately possible to be a general after the battle, but probably many bad practices would not be discussed if some rather simple solutions were adopted some time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. As we can see, this is a demanding and professionally extensive law. I would focus the discussion on changes in the procedure and situation of minority shareholders. The proposed novelty sets a mandatory minimum threshold for a mandatory take-over bid of 50 % of the share of all shares of the target company and of one share, clearly. The mandatory takeover bid is the basic acquisition institution for the protection of minority shareholders, which is important, which by selling their shares then also withdraws from the company. Today, the takeover legislation provides that, in order to protect the interests of minority shareholders, the acquirer must offer a fair price for the redemption of securities, but not a minimum percentage of the shares that the acquirer should acquire at a fair price. This threshold shall be set at 50 % of the share of all shares plus one share. Thus, the proposal extends the obligation to disclose the business of the securities of the target company to members of the management bodies, which is important as well as to members of the supervisory authorities of the target company. The proposed solution will contribute to greater transparency in the acquisition process and to strengthening the principle of the prohibition of trade in internal information, which has been forgotten to date. The bill introduces improvements in the determination of a fair price in the case of a request for judicial protection. The takeover bid must be made by the acquirer who reaches the takeover threshold of one third of the voting rights in the target company, as well as by the acquirer who, after the completion of the procedure, has taken over the offer of an additional 10 % in relation to the proportion of voting rights. The new law provides for an additional correction mechanism which also takes into account the prices of the securities of the target company in the organised securities market when determining a fair price. In the case of a compulsory bid, the only way to replace the cash payment is for securities. In order to protect minority shareholders, this law ordered payment of the so-called fair price and compensation. The fair price is now set as the highest price paid by the acquirer in the previous year for the targeted company's security. However, the way in which a fair price is determined today in the event of a prior request for judicial protection when the acquirer exceeds the threshold and does not make a take-up offer does not take account of price developments in the organised securities market. Accordingly, the proposed correction mechanism in determining the fair price in the acquisition bid, subject to a prior request for judicial protection, will also take into account price developments on the securities market if this would be more favourable for shareholders in a particular case, which is an additional security regulation. In the first paragraph of Article 69, the amendment provides for an additional condition in relation to a fair price following a successful voluntary takeover offer, and this is that the change is intended to further protect minority shareholders wishing to withdraw from the target company. In such a case, the existing regime provides for a fair compensation for the acquisition by the acquirer of 90 % of all shares and the novelty contains an additional condition that the minority shareholder may withdraw from the target company when receiving a refund of at least 90 % of all shares of the target company. Clearly, on condition that the offer was accepted by the holders of at least 90% of the target company. Thirdly, the purpose of Article 29 of the Law is to regulate the procedural situation of the consignees who have been granted a ban on the exercise of voting rights by the ATVP in the target company and, on the date of the application of this Act, fulfil the conditions for the cessation of voting rights. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u163	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I personally welcome this decision, including on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that such an important law goes also to first reading and that it is not a matter of some swift or urgent procedure. I personally assess that the takeover law is primarily about protecting minority shareholders. In the history of changes to the takeover law in Slovenia, positive things have happened in particular. We estimate that this law will also bring in additional safeguards and additional matters that will open up more transparent takeovers, more transparent takeovers, and not least that there will be no harm to one party or the other, and that there will be no abuse. Some of the questions addressed to the proposer are related to Article 6: Why is there now going to be an amendment to allow the acquirer to set a threshold for the performance of the bid which must not be less than 50%? Does this also mean that, for example, we could sometimes make a change that the takeover bid should only be published when you gain 50% plus one share? This thing doesn't go very well for me. We could probably use some more clarification here. If this threshold is 33% and if a company already owns, I don't know, 25% or 33%, why should the lowest threshold be for a successful takeover of 50%? Where did you find this 50% here? If you can only tell me about this correlation with the terms of the takeover offer, why these two things are going through. In today's debate, there was also a lot of talk about the confiscation of voting rights mainly to some state-owned companies, which means that the country was deprived of voting rights. I personally believe that the Securities Markets Agency has complied with the existing law and that there have been violations here. This is how this thing is supposed to be cured. Look, here I think we need to look at the context, so that no one gets hurt. [[...]] Personally, however, I believe that voting rights have been withdrawn, in quotations, because of respect for the law itself, and probably because of the banal things. As to who is responsible for the withdrawal of voting rights, I am convinced that there is a paper on which the responsible person is signed – the one who knew that he was buying shares owned directly by state companies and that this would lead to a violation of the takeover legislation. When some colleagues and colleagues from certain parliamentary groups say that it is imperative to return these voting rights – these voting rights have not been withdrawn for some reason, but because someone has violated the takeover legislation. The fact is, in that country, in those companies that were deprived of voting rights, the administration or the supervisory board of the company had no influence. How to change this matter according to this proposal which is written here in here I would be more cautious here. [[...]] In particular, the procedure for the adoption of this legislation should be aligned with all stakeholders, in particular with the Securities Market Agency, because we know that there have been some attempts since the return of voting rights, but that the ATVP has had comments on all proposals submitted by the applicant and has therefore not agreed. It should also be avoided that, if legislative changes were to occur, such a provision would not have been overtaken by the Constitutional Court, since it is mainly the legislation that protects small or minority shareholders. I find it hard to believe that small shareholders or anyone else will agree to return voting rights without any consequences, such as in the case of the Triglav Insurance Company, the State. Because these voting rights can only be returned by two manoeuvres under existing legislation. This means that those who have violated the takeover offer will publish the takeover and pay off those small shareholders. However, given that these violations occurred mainly in 2007 and 2008, when the level of shares was also significantly higher than today, this is probably not to be expected. I would also suggest to the proposaler that a more constructive solution be found here. Above all, we know that these purchases have led to the withdrawal of voting rights, probably more to the ignorance of the Takeover Act or to the so-called ‘slimparia’, which has cost the country a lot. And that all these reasons for the withdrawal of voting rights did not have any intention of having a society, either on the left or on the right, trying to play takeover legislation. But I'm going to go and not know the takeover law. It is certainly not right that some of you call for this voting rights to be returned in any way, because under all this paper, when someone ordered the purchase of securities and exceeded the acquisition threshold, it is the name, surname and signature. And for each such company in the country that has been deprived of voting rights, the person responsible shall also be informed. I don't think there's any reason to vote against it today. I will support this amendment bill. However, I would appeal to the proposer to think carefully and to try to agree with all stakeholders on how to remedy the withdrawals of voting rights that are emerging today. In particular, I would ask that I be given an explanation as to Article 6 and paragraph 2 that the consignee must set a minimum threshold for the effectiveness of the takeover bid, which must not be less than 50 %. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u165	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The solution that we have proposed is precisely because we think it is in favour of small shareholders. The 50% performance threshold is proposed following the model of regulation in France and the UK, and we want to achieve the exit of minority shareholders under equivalent conditions and at one price. With the threshold of success, we will achieve that the acquirer offers such a price that will be interesting for most shareholders to avoid previous practices when we have multiple rates up to this and more different prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please apply with a raise of hands. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, what a lovely greeting! I must admit that it has been a pleasure for me, given that the debaters who have already held their debate on this subject have, for the most part, been extremely positive in their deliberations on the amendment of this law, and I think that this is also the case. This is a topic that is sensitive, and I think it has split many people in Slovenia in this area in the past. It would be hard to say anything now that I wouldn't repeat myself, but despite all that, I think it's right that I should use a few words to do this very job. The fact is that in the Republic of Slovenia there were also so-called management acquisitions, which were also financed by the technique of financial levers. This has not yet been forgotten, and it will probably be present for some time now, because the consequences that have occurred simply cannot be remedied and unfortunately they are still present today. It is true that the response to the events of that time was adopted in 2007 by the novels, the first of which was the takeover Act with the code 1A. As already mentioned by previous debaters, today the proposed amendment of the 1G takeover law, inter alia, aims to prevent any new failures with capital-inadequate takeovers. And who does the proponent of this novel consider to be a capital-inadequate acquirer? These are those entities which could or will ensure the further development and existence of companies acquired, mainly by their capital and less by other financial levers. Therefore, the right acquirer must have sufficient assets or assets and an appropriate capital structure. In order to determine these quality of the acquirer, three new measures are proposed, as well as already mentioned, which are related to disclosures and evidence in the acquisition process, which will be checked by the competent institution, the Securities Market Agency. These three measures or indicators are: the obligation of the acquirer to disclose in the prospectus any plans relating to the flag of the target company; the demand for the acquirer's proof of the flag and the collateral granted to obtain the funding option as a condition for obtaining the takeover licence; and the linkage of the effectiveness of the offer to the submission of these tenders. This information is intended to help expose the takers to the true purpose. It also raises the question of what is the penalty provided for incorrect data in the prospectus and who can enforce it. It is known that the prospectus is intended for holders of securities covered by the takeover offer so that they can decide on the acceptance of the offer. They also have the right to claim compensation if they are harmed. To that end, for sure, the Securities Market Agency may also make fines under its jurisdiction. I believe that this proposal of the law before us gives us a good answer in the direction of the country's action to provide companies with additional defence against unwanted takers. Finally, I personally believe that the substance of the amendment of the Law on takeover is the following: the Securities Market Agency needs an explicit legal basis to amend the legislative decisions on the confiscation of voting rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the ninth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u169	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Restraint Insurance of Professional athletes in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on livestock in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 14. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u170	President, thank you for your word. I'm going to defend all three of our amendments in a set. The first amendment is to Article 14. This Article lays down the conditions for obtaining a consent corresponding to the current personal work permit. Such consent shall be given for three years and shall allow the worker to work with any employer. This means that it is practically equal to citizens, including when receiving unemployment benefits. In fact, it is only through this agreement that the worker gets all the rights. The current law distinguishes between workers with vocational or higher education. This senseless distinction must be left to the same conditions for all. The second part of the amendment – we are still in article 14 – refers to persons who have graduated from school in Slovenia. The government gives priority to those with higher education, which is based on a very bad presentation of the job offer in Slovenia, and in particular does not take into account the life ties that a foreigner has with us, Slovenia and her society. Someone who has been educated here for three or four years has already become very involved in society and has become dependent on it. From the point of view of this addiction, it doesn't matter whether he graduated from college or maybe from high school or vocational school. Therefore, in the United Left, we propose that personal work permits be granted to everyone who has completed at least vocational or secondary school in Slovenia in the last two years. Furthermore, as regards our amendment to Article 16. This law allows the employment of foreigners only for full-time work because practice has shown that employers often employ and pay workers for shorter working hours and work full-time. The proposal provides for an exception to this safeguard, namely that workers with higher education may also be employed for shorter working hours. We delete this exception because there is also a need to protect higher education workers from exploitation. And the last, our third amendment, to Article 51. In the United Left, we propose to ease the penalties for workers performing work for which no agreement has been given. At the principle level, we reject the prejudice that foreign workers consume the work of Slovenia and thereby increase unemployment. On a purely practical level, there is double punishment. Such a worker receives a two-year work ban on the basis of Article 42, while being punished with a fine ranging from EUR 500 to EUR 5,000. It's absolutely too much. At the same time, this law completely disregards the responsibility of the contracting authorities and would like to replace this with double punishment for workers, which is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u171	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u172	We have a strategy on economic migration by 2020 and it states that we will promote mobility and employment of highly skilled workers. Therefore, we will not support the amendment of the United Left to Article 14 of the Modern Centre Party. The amendment of the United Left to Article 16 is rejected because, as already explained in Article 14, it is intended to promote the employment of a highly skilled workforce. Nor will we support the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 51, because it is one of the main violations that are taking place in the field of employment of foreigners. In Austria, for example, a higher penalty is imposed for such a violation and, as a result, Austria has a minimum number of such infringements. It should also be noted that, in practice, it is rare for an inspector to impose a higher sentence than the minimum, unless it is repeated. Moreover, it is not appropriate for individuals to be authorised to carry out a deficient profession and then to perform other works for which they are not authorised. That's why we won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u173	We can move on to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 14. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 74. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 74.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 16. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 74. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 74.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 51. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 73. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 73.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 15. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 63. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against 13. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on takeovers. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on takeovers is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 9th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
