ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Jelka Godec by 12 noon, Mrs Nada Brinovšek by 12 noon, Mrs Anita Koleša, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Tillen Bozič, Matjaž Hanžek, Miha Kordiš, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Mr Jan Škoberne, Dr Matej T. Vatovec and Mr Franz Breznik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the real property of the State and the self-government of local communities, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration mag. Janko Burger.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u2	Good morning, thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, which extends the application of the provisions of the Law on Principles and Procedures, according to Chapters 2 and 5 of the Act, including real property owned by the Bank of Slovenia, which will be included in the definition of persons of public law by amendment and addition. Banka Slovenije is in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Law on Banka Slovenije a legal person of public law sui generis, which has a unique legal form – central bank – in the Business Registry of Slovenia. For assets owned by Banka Slovenije, the application of the provisions will also be ensured by amending and supplementing the Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities for the acquisition, disposal and management of real property; in particular, the application of the provisions in accordance with the principles of conduct and procedures of the second and fifth Chapters. The amendment will also make it more nomologically clear and consistent, which provisions of the law also apply to real property owned by public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies, public funds and the real assets of the Bank of Slovenia and public undertakings, unless otherwise specified by the specific law. The inclusion of the Bank of Slovenia among persons governed by public law under this law also means the application of the sixth indent of Article 23, which allows the immovable property of the State and the self-government local communities to be sold or replaced on the basis of a direct contract if the acquirer is a legal person of public law; other than a public undertaking; the only way to ensure with certainty that the facility owned by the Republic of Slovenia can be purchased by its actual user, Banka Slovenije. The Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities is published in the National Assembly in order to ensure all aspects of the independence of the Bank of Slovenia; in particular to regulate the ownership of the building in which the Bank of Slovenia operates. The amendments also follow the principle of the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, as a result of which they do not interfere with any behaviour of the Bank of Slovenia and are also in fact consistent with the guidelines set out in the European Central Bank manual. The consultation with the European Central Bank was not even necessary below, but at the same time we follow the demands of the European Central Bank, following the fact that the Bank of Slovenia owns the facilities in which it is located. Perhaps even a word about a shorter holiday period, which has also been highlighted during the presentation phase on the working committees. Since the changes do not bring about major changes, they do not only touch the Bank of Slovenia and simply explain in more detail how the availability is possible. We also suggested that the holiday period should be shorter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 10th session. 9. In 2015, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Real Estate of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, was considered as a working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 33rd session. Seven. 2015 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee took note of the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 25. 8. 2015 and additional explanations from the Ministry of Public Administration to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 31. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. Representative of the proposer State Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration mag. Mr Burgar explained in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the main reason for the adoption of the bill was the extension of the provisions on the principles and procedures for dealing with the real assets of the Bank of Slovenia. The draft law provides for the inclusion of the Bank of Slovenia as a person of public law with its ownership, in accordance with Article 1 of the Bank of Slovenia Act. Banka Slovenije is a legal person of public law sui generis with a specific legal organization in the Business Register of Slovenia; the law does not contain provisions on the procedures for dealing with real property owned or managed by it. The draft law provides that only provisions on the principles of conduct and procedures shall apply to the real assets of the Bank of Slovenia, unless those contents are otherwise regulated by a specific law. He also added that the proposed law does not prejudice the basic rules of the existing law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the draft law was examined in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the laws, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. It drew attention to Article 3 of the draft law, which provides that the proposed law shall enter into force the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. This provides for a shorter period from publication to entry into force than 15 days provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Subsequently, an appropriate explanation was provided by the Ministry of Public Administration, which was adopted by the Legislative and Legal Service. Two concerns were expressed in the debate by members of the Committee: how, with respect to the other laws binding on the Bank of Slovenia; or who, given its specific situation, will exercise control over its functioning. And why did it have to be so long before Banka Slovenije was included in the existing system? In response to the questions raised, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Administration explained that the proposed law generally interferes with the standards governing the real assets of the Bank of Slovenia; and not with other provisions binding on the Bank of Slovenia, which will have to take into account the existing legal order of the Republic of Slovenia in the same way as other similar entities. He also explained that the precondition for the functioning and implementation of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank is its independence as well as the independence of the national central banks, which is ensured by the changes mentioned in the law. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and also adopted them. As amendments, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly have not been adopted to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Real Property of the State and the Self-Governmental Communities in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, in its name mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Real Property of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, which we are dealing with, aligns the position of the Bank of Slovenia with other persons of public law, which are already mentioned in this law, so that it can exercise and dispose of its own property independently and independently after a new act. Banka Slovenije will be able to purchase from the country a building on Slovenski Street, which is now operating, as will an independent and independent institution, which will allow for the full independence of the central bank. The arrangements for Banka Slovenije to have an independent and independent capacity and to manage its assets and to own the building in which it operates are in line with international guidelines and arrangements in other countries in the EU; therefore, we will support the proposal for a law in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u7	The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party shall have the floor, on its behalf Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representative of the Ministry! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities is relatively simple. It contains only three articles in total. The purpose of these amendments and additions is to specify more precisely which content of the law also applies to real property owned by public institutions, public agencies and public funds, as well as by banks of Slovenia and public enterprises. This amendment will, as a consequence, ensure the application of the provisions of the Act on the Principles of Conduct and Procedures of the Bank of Slovenia. This proposal extends the definition of the concept of a legal person of public law to the Bank of Slovenia. This change will also adequately regulate the ownership of the building in which the Bank of Slovenia operates. Banka Slovenije is in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Law on Banka Slovenije a legal person of public law who also has a special unique organisational form in the Business Registry of Slovenia – the central bank; under the Banka Slovenije Act there is no provision for real property management procedures. The amendment of the law is without prejudice to the sovereignty and independence of the Bank of Slovenia as an entity; it is only determined that the Bank of Slovenia must also respect all the legal order that actually applies in the field of conduct. The proposal for a amendment to this Act follows a business provision to deal with minor changes and additions. However, it is not clear from the explanation of this material what will be the financial consequences of amending this law, which is likely to be. It is also clear from the explanation of the amendments and the addition of the Real Property Act of the State and the local self-government communities why these amendments have not been proposed before. While we received a reply from the Secretary of State at the meeting of the parent committee, this is due to the European Central Bank's constant recommendation, with the increased independence of the Bank of Slovenia and the availability of the assets in which it operates. This should enable Banka Slovenije to become the owner and realize the commitment to independence and independence that the European Central Bank also expects from Banka Slovenije. Of course, we are asked here who will supervise the Bank of Slovenia if it does not comply with the legal provisions on real property. Will the State Audit Commission be allowed to do this, or will the Court of Auditors do so? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will abstain from voting on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Ensuring the independence and independence of the central bank is a prerequisite for achieving the fundamental objective of monetary policy provided by the European System of Central Banks. Only an independent central bank can ensure the independent implementation of monetary policy. The principle of independence is therefore also laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. However, independence covers several aspects, namely functional, institutional, financial and human resources aspects. In its opinions, the European Central Bank has repeatedly stressed the importance of institutional and financial independence in relation to the real estate of the central bank. The European Central Bank states that third parties do not have the right to provide or issue instructions to the central bank concerning the assets it owns, as this is contrary to the principle of the financial independence of the central bank. The ownership of the property in which the central bank is located therefore falls within the scope of its financial and operational independence. According to the law, the Bank of Slovenia is a legal person of public law who owns his own property. The Bank of Slovenia is exclusively state-owned with financial and management autonomy. In accordance with this provision, the Bank of Slovenia is a legal person of public law, sui generis, has a special unique organizational form; the law does not contain provisions on the procedures for dealing with real property owned or managed by it. That is why a new Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities is needed. The main objective of the novel is to extend the application of the provisions of the Law on Principles and Procedures to the real assets of the Bank of Slovenia. The novel needs to be accepted in order to address the issue of ownership of the building in which the Bank of Slovenia operates; and in this way it will address the negative consequences arising from the fact that the Bank of Slovenia is not registered in real estate and other records as the owner of the building in which it operates. In the Desus Group we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u11	The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u12	Good morning. Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected assembly, a respected representative of the executive branch! As I have already been told before me, the amendment of the law brings only one novelty – a clear determination that the Bank of Slovenia is also a person of public law who is obliged to act under this law, which is being amended. We have already had a debate on whether the Bank of Slovenia is a person of public law or not. The discussions focused on the question whether the Court of Auditors could control the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. And this question comes up this time. On the basis of the change we are considering today, the Bank of Slovenia will have to comply with the provisions of the law relating to the principles and procedures for dealing with real property. This solution in the United Left Group is, of course, supported because the Bank of Slovenia must also be subject to rules on transparent and economic behaviour. Just as these rules apply to the operation of the State, municipalities and other persons of public law; or should apply. However, the problem that we have already pointed out on the committee arises with regard to the exercise of control over the management of real property. If there is no dilemma for the State, municipalities and other public law entities to be audited by the Court of Auditors, the situation is different in the case of the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia rejects any possibility of the Court of Auditors exercising control over its business. I'll read it again. The Bank of Slovenia rejects any possibility of the Court of Auditors exercising control over its business. Why? Since it has always stressed that its work has been supervised by an independent international auditor, the Bank of Slovenia also controls it through the annual reports it submits to the National Assembly. The problem is that the international auditor only revises the accounts; that Banka Slovenije will present the real estate management procedures accurately in the annual report to the National Assembly, and that it is not exactly to be expected. How Banka Slovenije will be supervised, at least in the work relating to the new provision of the law, we also asked representatives of the Ministry at the committee meeting. Since the Secretary of State has assured us that, in terms of real estate management, Banka Slovenije will be overseen by the Court of Auditors, we hope that this will be the case, the proposal for a law in the United Left will be supported. Of course, it is also the responsibility of the National Assembly to monitor the implementation of laws. If that is not the case, we will respond appropriately. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u14	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities governs the conduct of, that is, the management and disposal of property owned by the State and the municipalities. It also applies to state and municipal property managers and users, such as public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds. This package does not cover real property, these are real estate and real estate owned by Banka Slovenije. The Bank of Slovenia has full independence within our legal system under the Bank of Slovenia Act and Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As part of ensuring independence, financial and institutional independence, where the real assets of the Bank of Slovenia are dealt with, shall also be subject to judicial review. This does not mean, of course, that Banka Slovenije does not have real property or that the way and procedure for handling real property does not need to be regulated. The fact is that the area of handling the real assets of the Bank of Slovenia in the Slovenian acquis is now a legal void. This area is not governed by any regulation, nor by the Bank of Slovenia Act as a parent regulation in the field of our central bank, nor by the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities. Today's amendment to this Act eliminates this legal void and regulates the principles and procedures for dealing with the real assets of the Bank of Slovenia. The area is regulated in a way that does not interfere with the independence and independence of Banka Slovenije’s decision on the management of this property, i.e. by establishing the principles and procedures for dealing with the real assets of Banka Slovenije. On the basis of today's amendments and amendments to the law, Banka Slovenije will be able to draw up a management and management plan each year with its assets in the form of a decree to be dealt with and adopted by the National Assembly. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats, we point out that the independence and independence of the central bank institution at the same time assumes the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia and its bodies for the legal and economic management and management of its assets. The function of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia is one of the highest functions in the country. The importance of this function must also be proportionate to the responsibility for any decision for which an individual member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia has voted. The supervision of Banka Slovenije's operations is now not regulated in the System Act on Banka Slovenije. Amendments or additions to legislative bases are needed in this part. We expect the government to prepare a proposal for amendments and to supplement this law as soon as possible in this direction. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be supported by the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Fisheries, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has sent a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Fisheries to the National Assembly for consideration. The Basic Law, adopted in 2006, has systematically regulated the position of fisheries management in the sea and the implementation of the Common Fisheries Policy in Slovenia. Since the adoption of the law, certain changes have taken place in the area of the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy, such as the reform of the Common Fisheries Policy in 2013, new fisheries control rules requiring Member States to establish points for operators and captains of fishing vessels. A new financial perspective is also starting, for which we wanted to introduce certain simplifications of administrative burdens for all participants – for beneficiaries of funds and for state administration. Therefore, the law had to be amended and updated. Although fishing does not achieve a large proportion of the GDP of the Republic of Slovenia, it is important in terms of food security, cultural heritage and also in terms of the status of the Republic of Slovenia as a maritime country. However, despite the fact that this is not a major change in the basic law, these are important because we follow the definition of the common fisheries policy and allow fishermen to advise and facilitate access to the financing of the fisheries fund. The most important provisions of the bill are the following. We are transferring the rules of the common fisheries policy to the legal order of Slovenia, with regard to the introduction of a system of economic licence holders for serious infringements of the common fisheries policy, the system of points for masters of fishing vessels for serious infringements of the common fisheries policy is introduced and a register of infringements of the rules of the common fisheries policy is introduced. At the same time, the law simplifies procedures for co-financing actions from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund or reduces administrative burdens for all participants – for applicants and for administration. And a third amendment, we are introducing the possibility of financing a public fisheries advisory service aimed at the fisheries sector. This is relatively poorly organised and economically weak. We want to increase the competitive capacity of the fisheries sector while taking into account the sustainability principle, while at the same time helping fisheries sector operators to obtain funding from the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy and also from national resources. Dear Members and Members! Fishing is an integral part of our history and culture of identity and is important in the preservation of Slovenia as a maritime state. The goal is to preserve it, so I hope you will support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u17	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President! I'm sorry. It was a little technical. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Fisheries as a working body at its 10th session, on 2 September 2015. Amendments summarizing most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service have been tabled by coalition parliamentary groups, which have also been adopted by the Committee. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, which supported the bill. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out in the supplementary explanation of the written opinion that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to the bill partially improve the proposed solutions, also taking into account the comments of a legal and technical nature; however, some warnings from the service remain current. In particular, it concerns comments on Articles 10 and 11 of the draft law, which introduces a system of points for serious infringements of the common fisheries policy. From a legal point of view, the Service gave a warning as to the ambiguity of the proposed measure in relation to the institutes provided for by the Law on Offences. Since this is a measure which is severely penalised, it should be approached in a way that provides for a framework for its determination already within the framework of the Offences Act; comparable to the regulation of sanctions on road traffic criminal points. The Legislative and Legal Service points to a questionable approach which at the level of a particular law deals with only part of the content related to the provision of points and consequences of this measure; whereas other essential elements of this regulation do not. In relation to Article 14 of the draft law or Article 20b, paragraph 3, of the Act, which limits the number of points that can be expressed in the context of a specific inspection, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the proposed solution deviates from the established legislative regulation and the basis for a sanction to be imposed for an infringement rather than for an individual inspection. The solution is also questionable in terms of equal treatment of the same behaviour. With regard to the provisions of the third paragraph of Article 20th, the representative of the service pointed out that the applicant had not explained why such a solution had been proposed to guide the Ministry and would be accompanied by a fishing inspection. In addition, the storage time should also be set more clearly. It also made a comment on the provision to Article 18 concerning the submission of applications only by electronic means. Although the article with the amendment tabled is deleted, the following article refers to an agricultural law containing the same provision; this means that the solution in the amendment is maintained. Such a solution departs from the system regime under the General Administrative Procedure Act, where electronic investment is defined only as an option. It also noted that the infringement under the proposed provision would be subject to disproportionate and non-systemic sanctions by discarding the application; in addition, the provision remains poorly explained and does not present the implementing aspects of the proposed solution in the legislative material. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food explained with regard to the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service that it was a proposal for a law implementing European legislation. However, the solutions proposed are in line with the Ministry of Justice. With regard to the comments on the submission of applications, he explained that this method, with a view to simplification, had already been introduced by the Agricultural Act and several years of practice showed that the system was functioning well. The Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber explained that the Chamber supports the proposal of the law and added some proposals for future legislation in order to allow the possibility of carrying out tertiary activities on a fishing vessel and selling for smaller catches. The content of the proposal was not discussed by the members of the committee. Only a comment was made that it would make sense to further examine the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, in particular with regard to the introduction of the system of points which could be expressed in the context of the individual inspection. The Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to Articles 1, 4, 11, 14, 18 and 20. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u19	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u20	Your Honor! The proposal for a Maritime Fisheries Act follows in particular the requirements of European legislation within the framework of the Common European Fisheries Policy. In accordance with European law, the draft law introduces a system of criminal points for operators of economic fishing licences and captains of fishing vessels. However, a register of infringements and records of vessels kept at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food shall be established. A procedure is laid down for the temporary withdrawal of the fishing authorisation. Within the framework of public service tasks, the task of consulting in fisheries shall be included. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia recalls the urgent protection of the Slovenian sea. It has taken initiatives that will make it easier to work in the field of marine fisheries, with a view to preserving life in the Slovenian Sea and ensuring long-term sustainable use of resources for coastal Slovenian fisheries. It proposes to tighten the temporary ban on the management of a fishing vessel for the masters of a fishing vessel which applies to all vessels arriving in the territory of the Slovenian Sea. Furthermore, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber proposes a supplement with the possibility of selling prepared seafood on the boat, as well as the implementation of derogations, which will mean a simplified system of direct sales for smaller catches of Slovenian fishermen and will also contribute to more sales of catches on the Slovenian market. In a fairly simple way, a considerable number of comments were made by the Legal and Legislative Service, which were followed up. We will support the Maritime Fisheries Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u22	Have a nice hello again! Good morning, Secretary of State. Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Fisheries. The new law is necessary in order to ensure compliance with European Union law and to fulfil the previous condition for the implementation of the operational programme for the implementation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2020. As already explained by the proposer, a system of penalty points for operators of economic fishing licences and captains of fishing vessels will be introduced in order to establish a better Community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. As a result, a register of infringements will be established to introduce all infringements of the rules of the common fisheries policy to be committed by Slovenian fishing vessels, including imposed sanctions and the number of points allocated. This register will be maintained by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. It will also record violations of Slovenian fishing vessels against which proceedings have been initiated in other Member States. The novelty also introduces, inter alia, a system of authorisation for masters of fishing vessels, a system of points for serious infringements of the rules of the common fisheries policy and the possibility of temporary withdrawal of licences for masters of fishing vessels in the event of reaching or exceeding a certain number of points. The draft law also sets out more clearly the record of fishing vessels and vessels used in mariculture. In the context of the public service tasks in fisheries, the fisheries advisory tasks are also added. In the Desus Group, we particularly support this solution, as marine fisheries advice has not been properly regulated so far. In the Desus Group, we regret that the current legislation for Slovenian fishermen, who, as we all know, are very difficult to survive, does not allow the possibility of carrying out tertiary activities on a fishing vessel. We hope that the competent ministry will address this very difficult issue in the near future and approach its resolution through a regular legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u23	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž German, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you, President. Dear Secretary of State! The proposed amendment to the Law on Maritime Fisheries ensures compliance of the Slovenian acquis with the law of the European Union in the field of marine fisheries. We are talking about two Regulations, namely the 2009 Council Regulation and the 2011 European Commission Implementing Regulation, which constitute the basic basis for establishing a control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy in the European Union. Part of these rules are also the imposition of sanctions against serious infringements of the rules of the common fisheries policy and the introduction of a system of penalty points for fishing vessels and the introduction of a system of penalty points for operators of economic fishing licences and captains of fishing vessels. In this way, it wants to contribute to the key objective of the common fisheries policy, namely sustainable fisheries or sustainable use of fish and other marine organisms. This proposal therefore introduces a register of infringements led by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which will introduce all infringements of the common fisheries rules to be committed by Slovenian fishing vessels, including imposed sanctions and the number of points allocated for infringements. The points will be recorded for each fishing authorisation. This fact is important because those points are transferred to a possible new holder of an economic fishing authorisation by a seductive fishing vessel. The register will also record violations of Slovenian fishing vessels against which an appropriate procedure has been introduced in other Member States. Furthermore, the law also introduces licensing systems for masters of fishing vessels, a system of points for serious infringements of the rules of the common fisheries policy and the possibility of suspending the authorisation of masters of fishing vessels if they have reached or exceeded a certain number of points. However, it is very important for the Group of Social Democrats that this law also introduces a public service in fisheries for the purposes of advice and the tasks of research, monitoring, data collection and reporting in this area, which was particularly welcomed by representatives of Slovenian fishermen and also the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. On the basis of all of this, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u25	The text shall be given by the Group of Members of the United Left, in its name Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u26	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day! In the Group of Members, the United Left is committed to sustainable, economical and environmentally friendly fisheries. There is also a common European fisheries policy in this direction. Fish stocks are completely exploited because of overfishing. A total of 60 % of the stocks are fished until they can no longer be recovered. Of all the fishermen in the European Union, 80 % of the coastal fishermen who fish for small quantities and contribute only 20 % of the total catches in the European Union are caught by a handful of ships that rob European seas at industrial level. In the geographical area of GSA 17, including the Slovenian sea, the stocks of anchovies are fully exploited and the stocks of anchovy are moderately exploited. These two types of fish represent the majority of the landings of Slovenian fisheries and therefore sustainable coastal fisheries for Slovenia are of particular importance. Since the last major fishing boats Fish 1 and Fish 2 have been cut, industrial fishing is virtually gone. We have only small coastal fishermen who cannot compete with large industrial fisheries associations; it is therefore right to protect themselves by implementing the measures of the common fisheries policy. In addition to the importance of promoting coastal fisheries due to sustainable sea management, we must also be aware that small fishermen targeting sustainable coastal fisheries create more jobs than the industrial fleet and also have a very strong economic importance and an opportunity for integration with other sectors, particularly tourism. The proposed amendments to the Maritime Fisheries Act establish a better Community control system to assess compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy, introduce a system of criminal points for operators of economic fishing licences and captains of fishing vessels for serious infringements of the common fisheries policy and the system and records of vessels used in the maricultre. In addition to coordinating with a sustainable common fisheries policy, the adoption of the law will make it possible to draw on European fisheries funds. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the United Left, we support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u27	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u28	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian sea fishing is in a very unappreciative position. In discussions with representatives of Slovenian fishermen, we were briefed by Christian Democrats on the difficult conditions for work. They also said that it was hard for them not to see the prospect of developing their activities in our country. Most Slovenian fishermen are older, young people do not choose this profession. The state prescribes new and new administrative tasks and increasing red tape resulting from the abandonment of this economic activity. The catch is also increasing due to irregular relations with neighbouring countries. In the view of fishermen, it is also not adequately provided for the sustainable exploitation of the sea or the preservation of life in the Slovenian sea. The novelty's proposal points out that the amendment of the law is necessary in order to comply with the European legal order. In accordance with the European regulations, Member States of the European Union must establish a record of fishing vessels, a register of infringements and a system of record points. The current law on marine fishing does not allow this to happen, so the novelty brings precisely these solutions. In particular, Christian Democrats welcome the regulation of the legal basis for the implementation of the public fisheries advisory service. Although this has been taking place within the framework of the Nova Gorica Agricultural Forestry Institute for many years, the amendment will make this legal. Slovenia has a modest number of fishermen, only about 60. Despite the modest number, in our opinion, their importance for the preservation of the cultural landscape in the Slovenian coast and for tourism, which is an important economic sector, is extremely important. Christian Democrats remind the proposer to be careful when introducing administrative obligations, records and lists in order to comply with the European acquis. Let us not introduce any more bureaucracy than is absolutely necessary. Experience has taught us that many of the rules in our country are much more stringent than European legislation would have required of us. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u29	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Simon Zajc, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u30	Your Honor! In Slovenia, economic fishing is limited only to sea fishing. It is particularly important for the coastal region, where the close connection between fishing and the life of the area is characterised, especially because it does not provide jobs only directly; it is also linked to the economy of the region as a whole. It also refers to tourism and hospitality. As a member of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia shall promote the implementation of the reformed Common Fisheries Policy and the Integrated Maritime Policy. One of the main priorities for the development of Slovenian fisheries is the sustainable use of fishing resources and fleet management. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Fisheries will first and foremost ensure consistency with the acquis of the European Union. This will also meet the previous conditions for the implementation of the operational programme for the implementation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2020. The amendment of the law will enable the establishment of a better Community control system by establishing a system of criminal points for operators of economic fishing licences and captains of fishing vessels. A system of authorisation for masters of fishing vessels is also being introduced, a clearer definition of the record of fishing vessels and vessels used in mariculture. It is essential that the amendment of the law in the framework of public fisheries services introduce advisory tasks in fisheries, mainly due to the inorganic and uncompetitive nature of Slovenian maritime economic fisheries. The consultation will be targeted for fishermen. The aim is to increase the competitive capacity of the fisheries sector. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we will support amendments to the Law on Maritime Fisheries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u31	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Preventing Competition Restrictions, in another case. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology mag. Margareti Goochek Zakoshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u32	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, good morning! Before you is a proposal for the amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Competition Restriction, set by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 42nd session. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This bill proposes a change in the area of competition protection, where practice has shown the inadequacy and abuse of existing regulation. The main objectives followed by the proposal for a law are: conduct between undertakings relating to the functioning of the market and competition is regulated by the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act; administrative and criminal protection against acts of unfair competition between undertakings is abolished; disputes over acts of unfair competition are resolved solely in judicial proceedings and the repeal of the provisions on dumped and subsidised imports under the antiquated provisions of the Competition Protection Act. A key change in unfair competition between companies is therefore the abolition of administrative and criminal protection. The current regime is inadequate because it allows for abuse, as the Market Inspectorate must, on the basis of the latest case law, issue a measure to temporarily prohibit the act already on the basis of an action brought on the basis of unfair competition; without prejudice to whether the legal elements of unfair competition are met. However, the prohibition of unfair competition for companies in many cases means the cessation of activities, job losses and the like. If the proceedings show that it was not an act of unfair competition, which can be shown, the company suffered undue economic damage as a result of the provisional prohibition; in some cases, even the liquidation or bankruptcy of the company. In planning changes to the regime of unfair competition, we have also considered thoroughly the possibility of issuing a temporary ban on the basis of an assessment of whether certain conditions are met. We believe that the Market Inspectorate should, in such a case, follow the guidance of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the issuance of regulatory provisional decisions. However, since this would bring the issue of an administrative provisional ban closer to a judicial provisional order, it is, in our view, pointless that there are two equivalent institutions. Despite the abolition of administrative protection, the complainant will still be able to propose to the Court that, under the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, he issue a so-called regulatory interim order prohibiting the act of unfair competition until a final decision is made in court. It is also worth stressing that consumers will continue to be protected under the Consumer Protection Act against Unfair Practices and the Consumer Protection Act. The draft law also repeals the provisions on dumped and subsidised imports since, with the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, competence has been transferred to the EU level. Provisions at national level are no longer required. The removal of outdated provisions of the Competition Protection Act follows the principle of simplification and better legislation. On the topic of the topic, we would suggest that the National Assembly, as part of this regular meeting, also carry out a third consideration of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u33	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mark Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! With regard to the report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Limitation of Competition in Second Treatment, it can be said that the Committee on Economic Affairs is at its 9th session. 9. In 2015, he considered the draft law submitted to the National Assembly by the Government as the working body. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service of 25. 8. 2015, which examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The comments of Pro Plus and the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of 31 October were also made. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the draft law in the course of business. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia attended the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory addendum, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained that the relationship between undertakings relating to the functioning of the market and competition is regulated in ZPOmK-1, where only material provisions of unfair competition relating to the relationship between undertakings are brought into force. However, administrative and criminal protection as regards the acts of unfair competition between companies shall be lifted, companies shall settle disputes on account of acts of unfair competition solely in judicial proceedings and the decision on dumped and subsidised imports and ZVK shall be repealed. Legislation is simplified by the abolition of outdated ZVK decisions. The PSC considered that certain parts of the proposed law could be agreed upon and that the current administrative protection regime in relation to the case law of the Supreme Court was problematic and inappropriate. It also considers that the applicant would present more thoroughly why the current situation takes into account the abolition of administrative and criminal protection in cases of unfair competition in B to B (business-to-business). In doing so, the only reason must be that the current regime is not appropriate. The representative of the Government and TIR explain that, in recent times, TIR has accepted several applications or motions from prosecutors to issue decisions prohibiting acts of unfair competition. They refer to a case-law which advocates the view that the legal text in Article 28 cannot be interpreted in any other way than that the market inspection authority should issue a measure prohibiting the act, provided that the act is charged with unfair competition or a conviction for such an act. This means that, in the event of a temporary prohibition, TIR is not competent to determine the legal time limits of unfair competition, but that the action lodged is sufficient ground for the imposition of a provisional prohibition. In practice, TIRS, as a criminal body, can therefore conclude that the legal elements of unfair competition are not met; however, it must temporarily prohibit the conduct of the company to the final regulation and operation of the procedure, which may take several years. Finally, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the draft law. The bill was adopted. Since the Committee on the Economy has not adopted any amendments to the draft law as its parent body, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u35	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u36	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to give you a brief overview of the position of the Desus Group on amendments and additions to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act. The depreciation of certain decisions of our home legislation and the existing legislation at European level are the main reasons for the transposition of the provisions of one law into another – that is, the Competition Protection Act into the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act. With the amendment of the Anti-competitive Law, the Desus Group has no problems; on the contrary, it supports it. The latter means that there is a repeal of the Competition Protection Act. However, we would like to draw attention to the main solution, namely the abolition of certain powers of the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. In practice, the automaticity of the procedures carried out so far by the market inspection body, i.e. the inspectorate, has proved to be of great harm to the party found in the event of an accusation. The maximum absurdity lies in the fact that an undertaking is sentenced to a temporary operating ban solely on the grounds that the applicant has brought an action or an action; therefore, without one proof or finding that it is actually a form of unfair competition. Imagine what this means for an undertaking that has not been operating on the market for months because of an unjustified measure banning an act issued by the Market Inspectorate as a criminal body. It may take several months, including months or years, until the end of civil proceedings. In the event that it subsequently turns out that it was not an act of unfair competition, this would mean irreparable, sometimes even fatal consequences and economic loss, as well as the loss of a company’s long-term business reputation. It is precisely and mainly because of the latter that we in the Desus Group advocate the early abolition of administrative and criminal protection against acts of unfair competition. The current existence of two equal acts, according to our assessment, makes no sense, so we will support the proposed solution, which takes only one – and this path of justice. All disputes between companies arising from acts of unfair competition will be resolved in a fair trial in a court of law. For all the reasons listed in the Desus Group, we support the amendment of this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u37	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! In the United Left, we will not oppose the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition. It should be stressed, however, that the changes brought by the novel are quite questionable. At the same time, insufficient regulation of the whole area – consumer legislation and business relations – must be highlighted. For a key change – this is the elimination of administrative and criminal protection in relation to acts of unfair competition between companies – we have not heard convincing arguments. I quote: "If the current regime is such that it does not correspond to the purpose of legal protection, it should be regulated or amended accordingly." This is a quote from the Legal and Legal Service and the only logical answer, even if we look at analog practice, for example in other inspectorates, where such protection works successfully. Therefore, the question is why it is being eliminated in this case. On the part of the Secretary of State, former SMC fellow Members, we have heard the following argument, I quote. "From the point of view of the free economic initiative, which is a constitutionally guaranteed right, it is not appropriate for the State to interfere in civil relations." This Free Economic Initiative Act has become a phrase that increasingly serves as an excuse for interference in legislation that directly damages workers', environmental or consumer rights or the rights of small craftsmen. And it is this aspect of the legislation, i.e. the relationship between companies or so-called business-to-business, which is now transferred from the Competition Protection Act to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, that is obviously not good enough, as evidenced by the fate of small craftsmen, who, as producers in larger projects, often lose their pay and thus question their existence. Even in the area of consumer legislation, which is the other side of these regulations, the situation is not pink. Of course, we can swear that we have two laws, the Consumer Protection Act and the Consumer Protection Act against Unfair Business Practices. But practice shows a completely different state. It is clear that legislation is not a magical solution, that it is indeed a relationship of political power, the organisation of civil society and the fight for rights. But the question is perfectly clear. Do we, as a legislative body, try to regulate legislation by regulating as much as possible the situation for the benefit of the weaker, in the protection of citizens and citizens; or do we bend legislation so that it is increasingly hollow and susceptible to unfair practices, to the exploitation of elites or capital?Oh, my God! And unfortunately, in this case, we're going the other way. Finally, only a reference to repealing the provisions on dumped and subsidised imports. We no longer need these provisions formally, as these issues are in the hands of European legislation and institutions. This does not, of course, mean that dumping is no longer in practice. If we take a closer look, we'll see what happened to the pig. Self-sustainment has dropped below 30%, and one of the biggest reasons for this is the aggressive dumping strategies of German and Austrian producers. A more recent case is the case of the sale of vegetables, especially tomato. This shows that dumping in Europe is still alive and that protection from it is still needed, even though we are on the common market. And instead of blindly believing in this common market and constantly citing ourselves to the European Union, let us ask ourselves what we are going to do as a country and as a legislative body within this country in order to protect labour, consumer, environmental and social rights as much as possible; even if they need to be done before the European Union alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u39	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, in its name Mag, has the word. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u40	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Effective and healthy competition is the basis of an open market economy, provides cheaper and better goods and services and enables consumers to choose more and facilitate technological innovation and progress. Competition law on the market ensures the independence of all economic operators and, on the other hand, prevents unfair competition between undertakings. The free economic initiative, the right to private property and free choice and access to jobs are constitutionally protected rights which form the basis of every healthy society and its successful economy. Of course, provided that we respect the rules of the game, that we do not restrict healthy competition and that we do not interfere with the acts which distort such competition. In New Slovenia, we advocate legal proposals that represent a step forward in simplifying or shortening the procedures imposed by acts of unfair competition. It is a fact that only fast legal procedures are effective and that they achieve their purpose by passing the penalty. There is nothing to help us with a high fine for acts committed if, due to a number of legal remedies, violators can achieve their abolition in a number of procedures. The current duality, when the Public Agency for Competition Protection first conducts the administrative procedure and then follows the criminal procedure, is completely redundant and merely a delay; in particular, the legal uncertainty of the company to which a temporary ban on the conduct of a particular activity has been issued. Such a prohibition must be issued immediately by the market inspector of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a request for unfair competition. In doing so, it cannot determine whether the act has any signs of unfair competition. And even when the criminal authority finds that it is not unfair competition, it must temporarily prohibit the operation of the company until the final civil proceedings. With the inefficiency of our judiciary, we know that such a procedure can take years. And what does this mean for a company that is merely suspected of such an act? That's too bad. In order to limit the ban, there is no doubt a great deal of economic damage if it turns out in a fair process that it was not unfair competition. Such nonsense today's amendment to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act is being abolished. We believe that the resolution of disputes between businesses due to acts of unfair competition in judicial proceedings will, at least in part, contribute to a faster legal conclusion and thus to the execution of the penalty or exemption; if it turns out that the act did not have any signs of unfair competition. In our economic programme, Christian Democrats advocate a free economic initiative that no one has the right to restrict until it interferes with the right of another. Therefore, it is necessary to immediately initiate a judicial procedure where there is a suspicion that an individual act is an act of unfair competition which interferes with the economic freedom of another. Let's solve two problems with that. Without delay, the provisional order of the court will prevent further acts of unfair competition. [[Incomprehensible]] However, if the action turns out to be incontrovertible, the procedure will be stopped without adverse consequences for the company. We will therefore support the proposal for a new law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u41	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u42	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The right to unfair competition is inseparably linked to entrepreneurial morality. In the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitution already prohibits acts of unfair competition, which are more specifically defined by laws. These are different practices of companies that deviate from good and fair business practices. In 1993, the Competition Protection Act, which regulated the area of unfair competition by introducing a general clause and listing typical cases, was adopted. Later, the Consumer Protection Act and the Consumer Protection Act against Unfair Business Practices were adopted in the field under the EU Directive. All three laws regulate matter whose main objective is to protect competition and consequently to protect consumers. The individual provisions of the three laws are duplicative and create unnecessary confusion. However, the provisions of the Competition Protection Act governing dumped and subsidised imports have long been irrelevant due to the transfer of competences to EU level. The proposal for a law on the prevention of restrictions on competition therefore provides for the deletion of the entire Competition Protection Act, which is a proper step towards updating the sectoral legislation. This is also why we welcome the proposed amendment to the Modern Centre Party Group. With the proposed amendments, we are still dealing with the unsustainable situation in the area of the issue of temporary prohibitions of acts of unfair competition, since the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision but did not have the power to decide on the fulfilment of the legal signs of acts of unfair competition. It is therefore the abolition of the instrument of administrative and criminal protection and the enforcement of judicial protection. The proposed legal solutions significantly reduce the risk of damage to businesses. Injurers who detect an act of unfair competition, such as the misuse of a logo, trademarks, harmful advertising used by competition for the purpose of misleading and driving out of the market, will bring an action against a court which is in accordance with the law of condition for the issue of a temporary prohibition of unfair conduct. By removing criminal protection, we will ensure greater legal certainty by preventing the existence of two legal acts which could be contrary to the content, namely, the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, in criminal proceedings, could decide that it is an act of unfair competition; and the court in administrative proceedings, vice versa. From the point of view of the free economic initiative, we do not believe that it is appropriate for the State to interfere with civil relations or disputes between individual undertakings. Businesses must be free to manage an economic initiative and the state can only intervene exceptionally when necessary and inevitably. In the Modern Centre Party, we support the proposed legislative changes because their implementation contributes to a safer business environment and build confidence in the business world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u43	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u44	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We will not oppose this law in the SDS Group of Members. We are confident that changes and additions to this law will help all stakeholders working in this area to have better conditions. We are confident that this part of the law will help improve competitiveness, help the free market and also protect consumers. Therefore, we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u45	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the housing law, in another defense. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 16 Members and Members with the first signed mags. Bojano Mursich. The bill is being proposed at the 12th session of 3. 9. 2015 treated the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent working body. Since the committee did not adopt the articles of the bill after the discussion had been concluded, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Honorable representative of the government! Social Democrats have been monitoring the problem of tenants in residential housing for a long time and are trying to regulate their situation. We are convinced that this is a weaker and more vulnerable category of people who were wronged by the 1991 Housing Law because many of them were not allowed or allowed to buy the apartment where the tenants lived or bought another apartment under the same favourable conditions as the large majority of the tenants were allowed to do so by the so-called Yazbinski Law. Many tenants in residential dwellings were not holders of housing rights when the law was in force, so they were not formally entitled to a favourable purchase of the apartment. In this place it should be made clear that for such a legal arrangement, when tenants in residential housing were holders of housing rights, but most of them were not, there were no valid reasons why the in-depth legal study prepared by the Institute for Real Estate Law in Maribor was very well-founded. That is why we Social Democrats claim that most of the tenants in house housing have been wronged, which we have also tried, in cooperation with some other parliamentary groups, to abolish in the past mandates of the National Assembly. In 2011, the Social Democrats drafted the text of a proposal for amendments to the Housing Law, which was adopted by the National Assembly. However, after 20 years of efforts, this law allowed housewives to buy house or other alternative housing within five years under more favourable conditions — such as those of the vast majority of tenants in 1991. After seven months of validity, the Public Finance Balance Act, without any substantive justification, repealed the key provisions of the Housing Law and in a constitutionally disputed manner forfeited the legal right of tenants in household housing. In this way, the ZUJF has done new injustices to housewives, as only six beneficiaries have been able to enforce legal rights and resolve their housing issue; a large majority have not been able to do so. Thus we have witnessed again a new distinction that cannot be legitimate but even less just. Most likely, however, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia violates the fundamental principle of trust in law. Housewives returned to the Social Democrats a bad year ago with a request to help them regain their rights. Similar visits have also been made in the remaining parliamentary groups and have been supported in principle in addressing their problems. That is why we have redrafted the text of the new Housing Law, which similarly solves housing problems as mentioned in the 2011 Act. We also re-offered the bill in co-signed to the other parliamentary groups, but only colleagues and colleagues from the former Alliance and the United Left joined us. Similarly, later at a meeting of the home working body, where most Members and Members rejected our proposal. We have presented legal and other substantive arguments that support the adopted law and this has not helped. The government has drawn up a negative opinion on the proposal, which is unfortunately unrealistic and even misleading at many points. We are also concerned about the words of the Minister for Environment and Space, who said among other things: "My opinion is that in 2015 we cannot make exceptions for a small number of citizens." True, housewives are a relatively small group of people, which is probably why they are less interesting, media less receptive and suppressed on the side. However, if a group of people have been wronged, it must be eliminated regardless of its number or other circumstances. In her 2013 and 2014 reports, the Ombudsman also drew attention to the problem of unequal resolution of the problem of housewives. The National Assembly had already adopted a recommendation last year to address this problem; however, we missed a great deal of opportunity to solve this sad story once and for all. Now there is probably nothing left for the housekeepers but to seek their right in the Constitutional Court. However, we hope that the Social Democrats will receive appropriate assistance from the Ombudsman, because unfortunately, the majority of them do not have an understanding in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u47	The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you again for your word, chairman. Hello, Government Representative, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left, by the decision of the working body to reject the amendment of the Housing Law, we cannot agree, not only because, as the colleague mentioned before me, we are co-proposers of a novel that would finally and definitively regulate the situation of housewives who, in addition to the holders of housing rights in denationalized apartments, are the second blind spot of the 2001 Yazbinski Law. If we are faced with convincing arguments, in the United Left we respond appropriately to them in the legislative process. However, it usually happens that the coalition of the opposition's legislative proposals simply overtakes arguments that are repeatedly denied or even without any arguments. Sadly, such an example is also a novelty of the Housing Law. In early September, when it was addressed by a competent parent working body — the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space — all the main reasons why the Government opposes the amendment were debated either by the proponents or by the public concerned. As the representatives of the coalition's work lacked arguments, the chairman of the SMC committee rejected the amendment's support with an argument that the novel could not remedy the injustice that had been committed because only the court could determine the injustice. After being carried out, by analogy, this means that the injustice that is not yet in court, but is worth parliamentary treatment, obviously does not exist for the majority of the ruling coalition. Legalism SMC and Desus, of course, hides the real reason to oppose the novel. They are not committed to respect the rule of law because they often violate you. Let us only recall, for example, the devastating nomotechnic level of many proposed laws by the Government and the coalition, as well as the ignoring of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the meetings of working bodies, led by members of the coalition. Nor are they concerned with the elimination of the injustice that was committed to housewives a quarter of a century ago, especially to their most socially vulnerable work. It is the price of respect for the rule of law and the elimination of the injustices that the ruling coalition should pay. In the event that all of them, but indeed all 70 of them, which in reality was not to be expected to fulfil the conditions laid down in this law, would successfully exercise their rights, this is a matter of ca. Two million euros. If you find this cynical, it's because it's also cynical and unseemly. But even more cynicism is the context. On the one hand, the government coalition rejects the fact that 70 people and their families who, due to the coincidence of their profession under the law of Jasbinsk were not able to benefit from housing were wronged. On the other hand, the coalition only cancels EUR 16 million by abolishing the fourth income class. This cynicism reveals the truth of the government of Mir Cerar. The state and society that this government creates are neither legal nor just. This is a country in which social problems are perceived to be overexpenditures; and the interests of ruling elites as a development opportunity. In the United Left — and we are sure that we are not alone in this — we do not want such a country, nor will we allow it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u49	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u50	Dear President, all present! At first glance, it may seem that the users of residential apartments are in an unequal position compared to tenants, former tenants of residential rights in denationalised apartments. It seems even more criminal that the Public Finance Balance Act in 2012 annulled an earlier amendment to the Housing Law, which gave the tenants the possibility of buying a house or getting a compensation to provide a second home or to pay a non-profit rent under certain conditions. All this at first sight. If we take a closer look at it, we find that it is exclusively for office apartments where housewives have the right to temporary use, i.e. only for the duration of the work of the house. True, the largest number of these apartments are in multi-housing buildings. However, they are still in schools, kindergartens and educational institutions, although the housewives are no longer doing their work there. It is also true that previous holders of the right of provisional application after the entry into force of the new Housing Law in 2011 had the possibility of buying a house and that this time instead of five years lasted only seven months; then the ZUJF permanently seized this option. But we have to light up the whole thing from different angles. In our legal order, the principle of equality applies, which means, in a specific case, that the possibility of buying the apartment obtained for temporary use should also be provided by teachers, educators and police under the conditions of 2011. However, the proposal of today's amendment gives this possibility only to a certain group, i.e. the janitors. In New Slovenia we advocate a just and sustainable solution to the housing problem of all citizens. Only partial solutions favouring only a specific population are not acceptable. We must not overlook the fact that the law gives the housewives certain rights that others do not have. Where the rental contract for a residential apartment has been concluded before 19 October 1991, they may obtain a subsidy to rent if they are required to pay a market rent by the key owners. They shall be entitled to it if they are still performing housework and even if they are no longer performing such works for the purpose of retirement or for reasons which are not due to their guilt. After their death, justice is also granted to his spouse. In view of the above, it can be said that housewives are by no means deprived of the exercise of rights under the settlement of the housing issue. There's something else we can't overlook. If all 70 households were to successfully exercise the right to receive material benefits for the purchase of another ownership apartment, which applies to tenants — former holders of unlimited housing rights in denationalised dwellings, they would have to provide around 2 million and a half grants; one third of them, i.e. 325 000 euros from the state budget. Slovenia certainly does not have the necessary financial resources at this time to address the housing problem as a matter of priority, if we can talk about the problem at all. In view of the fact that the State already allows the janitors individual rights that other holders of the right to temporary use of apartments do not have, in New Slovenia we will not support the proposal for a law on amendment and amendment of the Housing Law; nor will we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u51	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we generally agree with the estimates that the 1991 Housing Code, in view of the equality of the social distribution of assets in the privatisation of social dwellings, has raised some questions, since the owners of housing rights and their immediate members have had the opportunity to buy the apartment at a very favourable price, while others have not had these options. These options were not for those who saved and managed to build their own house and did not live in a social apartment; nor did those who did not have housing rights for other reasons. In 1991, the law went in a way that allowed for the acquisition of property rights in dwellings especially for those who lived in these apartments and their neighbors. Houses were pre-1991 service apartments specifically intended for persons who were employed as janitors and could not be allocated to other applicants and beneficiaries for the allocation of social housing at that time. The users of the apartment were not holders of the right to housing, but were holders of the right to temporary use of the house for the duration of the work of the house. As a result, the housing arrangements, which were also specifically regulated in schools, educational institutions, courts, railway stations and the like, were specifically regulated in 1991, since the owners of these residential apartments in multi-storey buildings later became key owners. The reason for the special arrangement of residential dwellings was that it allowed the permanent presence or proximity of the janitor in the building he cared for; that is, in the specificity of this profession, when the job was replaced, he had to leave the apartment to the new janitor. In this light, the arrangement in the 1991 Housing Code was understandable, since a different arrangement would mean that special residential dwellings in a particular building, where only housekeepers could live, would be converted into regular dwellings. The possibility of buying housing in the Housing Law in 1991 would thus mean the end of the housework in its current form, since apartments, like other owners of housing rights, might also be sold by immediate family members and apartments. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the situation of housewives cannot be compared with that of those who had housing rights in denationalised dwellings, since the latter lived in non-official dwellings and differed from others only in the fact that the denationalisation procedures aimed at returning the original owners. Thus, there is no reason for the legal alignment of these two groups of housing users. In 1991, the legislator had reasons for specific regulation of housing and no one claiming to be criminal or unconstitutional was able to challenge the constitutional judgment. It is also important to consider the fact that the Housing Law of this year, in a sense, this implementation work relating to the privatisation of social housing, has been carried out. Any interference in a law adopted 24 years ago and already implemented could therefore open up a number of claims by those who were not satisfied with the past arrangements, such as other users of service apartments, for they would have estimated that they were not in an equal position compared to the housewives. In view of the above, the Group of the Parties did not support the modern centre of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u53	Mr Daniel Krivec, Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Infrastructure! Again, we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementation of the Housing Law. He's been to this national council a number of times. This time it is submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed mag. Bojano Mursich. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the topic at its 12th regular meeting and, after a lengthy discussion, decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration; this meant that the law was closed and there was no vote today. This bill is also opposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for which there are several arguments. That is, it is not the applicant's argument that only the Housing Law has defined housing as a service apartment. Houses have been defined since 1959 as office apartments under the then Housewives Act. Consumers of residential housing continued to enjoy the right to temporary use of housing until the entry into force of the 1991 Housing Law. Houses are not only in multi-housing buildings, but also within public buildings such as kindergartens, schools, educational institutions and other public buildings. These apartments are not defined by the Housing Law or saved in the same way. The law itself was never subject to constitutional review, but individual decisions were repeatedly judged in the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court; decisions were always confirmed to be purely and exclusively for housing. The government considers that the Housing Law has unjustifiably highlighted only one group of people. Housewives are already in a better position under current legislation, compared to other groups that have jobs. When granted for a non-profit apartment, they receive an additional 200 points if they were in a household apartment, which means that they are automatically ranked higher on the scale. Neither does the Council of State support the bill. Official dwellings where housewives have acquired only the right to provisional use for the duration of the work of the house cannot be compared with dwellings where housing rights have been acquired in the past. The Council of State further recalls that the adoption of the law could result in a requirement for the so-called privatisation of other dwellings, which had been defined before 1991 as service dwellings. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that the position of the parent committee is appropriate and that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u55	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on its behalf Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for the amendment of the Housing Law is identical to the law in force from mid-November 2011 until the end of May 2012 and has then been amended or deleted by the Act on the Balance of Public Finance. This proposal of the novel again brings legal solutions that will ensure the rights of former holders of housing rights or former holders of the right to temporary use of housing, such as those enjoyed by previous holders of housing rights in denationalised homes. This is the provision of entitlements to receive material benefits for the purchase of other ownership apartments to those beneficiaries who do not have a resolution of the housing issue and who have failed to exercise the right granted to them by the 2011 Housing Law. According to the proposal's proponents, the Public Finance Balance Act is controversial and, according to their assessment, probably unlawfully annulled the amendment of the Housing Law, which for almost 7 months regulated the exercise of rights to former holders of housing rights or the right of temporary use of housing since it prevented them from exercising legal rights. The beneficiaries could exercise their rights within five years of the application of the law. Within seven months, six beneficiaries were able to enforce legal rights, but most of them did not. It is estimated that the purchase of 70 other equity apartments would amount to the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia over EUR 2 million. In the Desus Group, we support the proposaler's intention to make it possible to exercise the rights of the most vulnerable and socially weak category of inhabitants, as the Ombudsman also pointed out in his 2013 and 2014 annual reports that the problem of housing should be treated equally. Unfortunately, however, in our parliamentary group we agree with the opinion of the Government, which opposes the bill. The fact is that the law would unjustifiably expose one group of tenants, namely housewives; although there are still several other groups of tenants of employment apartments, such as teachers, educators, policemen, soldiers and others. In the Desus Group, we believe that if the law were passed, they would violate the right to equality before the law, as for example, the janitor would be entitled to material benefits in the purchase of another apartment; but not as a janitor living in an office in an educational institution. Houses were never defined as dwellings where tenants were entitled, but already the Housing Act of 1959 defined housing and the right to housing solely for the purpose of carrying out housework. This means that the household apartment was only a work apartment that the housewives could use only for the duration of the household work. This is also discussed in the Act on Rights in Parts of the 1976 Buildings, which classified the house as a joint building with the right to permanent use of the floor owners. In this way he also defined the 1991 Housing Act in multi-housing blocks as co-owners. In other public buildings, these apartments represented a common part of the public building. The bill also has unsuspecting financial implications, as if all 70 households had decided to apply the proposed benefits, more than EUR 2 million would be needed. Otherwise, in the Desus Group, we believe that housewives are already favoured by the current legislation compared to other groups, because they are entitled to a subsidy to a market rent and can apply for a non-profit flat upon retirement, with additional housing items allocated to them. The opinion of the Ministry is also attached to a number of Supreme Court judgments, which clearly state that the Housing Law did not violate the rights of tenants in residential housing. Members and Members of the Desus Group voted against the whole article of the bill at the examination of the law on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u57	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. On a daily basis, this is on the proposal for a resolution on the long-term development programme of the police by the summer of 2025. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Interior Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members! Resolution on the long-term development of the police by 2025 – Quality Police for safe Slovenia is the highest key development and guidance document for the police; at the same time, it is a long-term planning document providing a platform and a framework for the long-term development of the police; and at the same time, it is the basis of the medium-term police work plans. This is a strategic document that responds to the key issues of police long-term development and ensures continuity of priority and investment in security. Security threats are globalised and the development of the police is also essential, so that the technique, tactics and methodology of police work will also be globalised. The present document is the answer to this response. The fundamental principles underlying the motion for a resolution are: operational autonomy, the professional independence of the Authority, sustainable development, the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of the Authority, the principle of proportionality. In particular, the resolution seeks to achieve a high level of legal and personal security for people and the security of their property, strengthening the rule of law, strengthening cooperation with the local community, deconcentrating the police and fulfilling the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in ensuring international security in the police field. The first step is to achieve legal objectives such as the safety of people's lives and their property against the dangers of crime; a relatively high level of legal certainty for the perpetrators of such acts in police procedures, with a consistent exercise of democratic control over the police, in particular through the use of police powers and coercive means. The professional and well-established system of police officers with clear objectives and support, awareness of civil society, NGOs and public opinion has ensured their legitimate and professional work. The expertise, ethics and legality of the work of police officers can be achieved if they enjoy the necessary functional autonomy and professional security. To prepare the document, the police first identified the key development problems they are facing, identified the reasons for the problems and their internal and external consequences. On this basis, for each problem cluster, it has set basic and individual development objectives, explained the need to achieve these objectives, the methods for achieving them, the time for implementing development projects, obstacles and indicators of achievement of the objectives set. The motion for a resolution is the long-term development objectives of the police based on the mission and vision of the police, which is to ensure an adequate level of security so that we remain one of the safest countries for smooth personal and general social development. [[Incomprehensible]] The following defines the general social circumstances of police operations, and also identifies the public security threats and public safety risks that we assess over the next 10 years. Of course, the human resources policy of the police or the provision of adequate human resources resources are also key to achieving the objectives. It will certainly be necessary to increase the number of police officers in the coming years and to improve their age structure. The resolution also identifies specific priority police development projects relating to the management system, the concept of police work and the exercise of police powers, the priority material and technical equipment of the police, which will be guided by new information and telecommunications technologies. Emphasis is also placed on the excellent skills of police officers and their integrity and the reduction of reaction time in their work and so on. The total estimated value of the amount of resources for the implementation of the tasks of the resolution is EUR 512 million to be drawn from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and part from European funds as well. This is an assessment of the necessary investments over the next ten years. The fact is that the public financial framework also remains a risk to the development of the police. Security is not only one of the most important good things, but it is also an important human right. Only in a secure and free society can an individual realize his or her needs and develop. We believe that the plans contained in the resolution will not remain just a dead letter on paper. Individual planned tasks are already being carried out, such as ePolice Officer and elimination of administrative obstacles to police work, the development of social skills. We've also received a new building from the National Forensic Laboratory. The company expects a lot from the police; especially when new security threats arise. To a lesser extent, the police can meet these expectations of the community with systemic adjustments that do not require additional resources. On many occasions, however, the police are expected to respond more to the modern security responses of those requiring new development investments. This objective – in addition to meeting the expectations of society on modern security challenges – is also followed by a resolution on the long-term development programme of the police by 2025.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u59	The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Mark Ferluga, a member of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 10th regular session. 9. 2015 addressed the motion for a resolution on the long-term development programme of the police by 2025 and submitted it to the Government on the basis of Article 15, paragraph 1, of the Law on the organisation and work of the police and Article 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee also took note of the following material: the motion for a resolution as such, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations of 7. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mr Šefic and Deputy Director-General of the Police mag are hereby appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Mrs Bobnar, in their explanation, said that the resolution had been prepared on the basis of Article 15 of the Law on Police Organisation and Work and had been produced at the Ministry of the Interior since 2011. The motion for a resolution is an important strategic document on which the long-term and short-term objectives of the police will be based. However, the main objective is that systematic investment in development needs to ensure the most important good, in their view, and this is the security of citizens. This must be adapted by means of tactics and methodologies to the current challenges, which are undoubtedly as big as we can see. In order to implement the whole proposal, it is estimated that an indicative 512 million is needed to obtain some of them from the budget, partly from European funds, and somewhere in ten years. The Committee was informed of the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, from which it concluded that the proposal had been examined in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the laws, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The PSC has no comments on the motion for a resolution. In their opinion, Mr Fajt, the representative of the Commission of the National Council for State Arrangements, highlighted the following findings: a large drop in staff, the provision of psychological and emotional support between employees, and the issue of early retirement. The preventive work of the police was praised with the desire to have a greater presence in the local environment. Transport safety and the current refugee problem have also been highlighted. The representative of the Council of State also expressed the view that the police enjoy an extremely high level of respect and trust and that its conduct is at a high level. In the next debate, the members and members of the committee first commended the functioning of the police, who, despite their undernutrition, relatively poor working conditions and limited financial resources, carried out their work at an envious level. We have also considered that they have already reached a critical limit in the number of employees, and a provision has also been made which states that higher education is required to carry out the job of a police officer. Then here is the dynamics of transition or whether there is a possibility of compensation with work experience; here were the dilemmas. In addition, a proposal was made to increase the fleet and possibly the purpose of saving funds through financial or operational leasing. A measure for leases has also been proposed with a view to saving funds. Questions were clearly related again to the current topic of refugees. Finally, mention was made of the operation of the police orchestra and that this would also be introduced in the next resolution, or in the revision of the resolution, because it is an important element in the identification of the functioning of the police in the environment. In response, the Secretary of State and the Deputy Director-General clarified all the above requirements and said [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'm at the end. Then I'll just go to the final parts. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution and adopted them. No amendments were adopted to the motion for a resolution on the home working body. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposed to the National Assembly that the resolution be adopted in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u61	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u62	Hello again, Madam Minister, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Assembly! After this show, a little serious. We have before us the motion for a resolution on the long-term development of the police. We support the proposal in the United Left because it is an important area that we are giving too little attention to, which we have repeatedly warned about. We don't have much trouble with the document. Above all, it bothers us not to include union representatives in the debate on the development programme. After all, police employees are the ones most concerned by this document and are even more familiar with the specific problems of the Slovenian Police because of their work on the ground. Whether the resolution is openly supported by both the MNZ and the government, it will be clearly reflected in the annual budget. The objectives of those documents depend entirely on the financial resources of the budget lines to be allocated to the functioning of the police by the State. And in a small part of the European funds, in short, the fifth cash register, as I usually say. The far-reaching problem remains human resources – with regard to the extremely negative trend in the number of employees and the anomaly in the payment system. The projections show that by 2019, only 7 thousand 163 people were employed by the police; only 319 police and police officers were expected to retire this year. How important is the good functioning of the police, which does not have just and only repressive functions, to be seen in recent weeks. In addition to the worrying decline in the number of police officers, the current age structure is also worrying, as the average age has been over 40 years. When ensuring an adequate number of police and police officers, a generation gap should be avoided. The key problem remains outdated equipment and a number of inappropriate areas in which police operate. As has already been said, the resolution without adequate financial means is a dead letter on paper. Inadequate police funding and the deteriorating situation may, of course, encourage long-term appetites after the privatisation of the security area, which, of course, we strongly oppose in the United Left. All of this must be understood and recognised by the Government and the National Assembly; not only by words, but also by appropriate discussions and also by appropriate budgetary means. There is no room for belt tightening in this area, and we hope that the negative trend will change in the coming year. As has already been said, in the United Left, we will support the motion for a resolution; we expect that the Government will also allocate sufficient resources to achieve the objectives set out in the document – both by this government and by all subsequent governments by 2025. And I hope the United Left will be present in the next government. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u63	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u64	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! Among the countries of the European Union, Slovenia is the second safest country. The police must play a major role in ensuring a level of security. Whether we will be able to maintain this level of security in the future will depend largely on the police's continued work and development, i.e. on police personnel, equipment, education and training of police officers, and in particular on the resources we will devote to security. The long-term financial and economic crisis has left us with great consequences in the field of police action. The budget resources for the police were reduced in terms of salaries, material costs and investments, the number of police officers steadily decreased during the years of the crisis and the workload of police officers increased as the vacant posts of police officers remained unoccupied. The union organizations of police officers strongly point to the spent personal equipment of police officers, such as uniforms, helmets, jackets and similar equipment. There is also a shortage of funds to maintain the Tetra liaison system and even to carry out emergency helicopter medical care. There is also no provision for the replacement of computers, long-term service vehicles and for the restoration of long-term spaces, especially in some of the most forgotten or remote environments in the country. Despite poor working conditions in recent years, the police have still managed to provide their services, but there are warnings of an increase in police response time. Poor working conditions are also beginning to create the safety of police officers themselves, because of their insufficient number of interventions, sufficient numbers of police officers can no longer be provided in the field and thus ensure their safety, the number of police officers needs to be increased and the current unpleasant age structure improved in order to ensure the employment of an adequate number of younger staff. Here we appeal to the policy that, when the budgets are adopted for the next two years, which the Government has already submitted for the parliamentary procedure, it will provide sufficient resources for the normal functioning of the police. The security of the State, citizens and their property must not be jeopardised by savings. The area where the scope and, in particular, the complexity of police work is increasing is certainly economic and banking crime. These areas of work will have to be stepped up by the police, but all the authorities in the chain of investigation, prosecution and trial. The detection and investigation of this type of crime requires regular cooperation with the Court of Auditors, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia and other institutions of our country, and in particular the exchange of data with other countries. With regard to security, it will certainly be a major challenge for the police in the future of terrorism. The Slovenian territory is not so far overly biased by terrorist activities, but intensive preventive work in this area in the future must not prevent a lack of resources. The police must regularly monitor the transit of persons and weapons through Slovenia in order to prevent terrorist actions in other European countries as well. A particular threat is the threat of the Islamic State, which is spreading steadily throughout the world, even to Europe. Also with regard to solving the current refugee problem, it is the police who are the first to face the refugees at the very border crossing, and also after this refugee issue has brought with it sensitive security issues. Members of the New Slovenia Group support the content of the motion for a resolution on the long-term development of the police by 2025.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u65	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. The Group of Non-Aligned Members will certainly support this resolution and it is right to say some critical distance to this resolution. In the modern society in which we are located, responses to crime are very important due to the impact on the economy. Slovenia, as a small country, can only develop its economy in a safe environment and it is a very safe environment that will attract investment and, on the other hand, encourage tourism as one of the key economic activities. That is, more security, a better economy and consequently more taxes and more money for the police. If you have been monitoring, we have dealt with matters for a long time on the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, where support for police work has been given both by Members of the United Left and by Members on the right side of Parliament. It is also right that in future Members, as such, we support all efforts to improve the work of the police. What did I expect to be a little more in this resolution? In view of the fact that a member of this group representing the resolution, also Marian Funk, who was my student in the Master's degree and worked as a Master's degree in this field, given that all the strategic documents of the European Union, notably the documents of SOKT, OKT, IOCT and the United Nations from Vienna, I expected the document to be a little more strategic in view of the criticisms that European documents also face and should be more forward-looking. These are static documents, which have been criticized by colleagues from universities, where we have made quite a few comments on these documents. Otherwise, it is the works of Tom Vander Bekna, Van Duin and the current best institute in Europe, the Finnish Heuni Institute, which deals with statistics specifically for these documents. I expect that in the future, when the objectives of this resolution are being implemented, we should take a bolder approach and place more emphasis on future-oriented work. It is that the local environment must feel the presence of the police and the connection with the police and that we are transforming the community's police work into a plural police work, because it is a combination of factors for the development of the police in the future, taking into account the techniques and all resources. Problems in the future need to be identified in the areas of migration – the emergence of favelas and slums, where the police will have much work to do in the future. It is an optimisation of procedures, as found correctly in the resolution, but we are forgetting something. Many new laws bring a number of new tasks, while fewer and fewer employees at the same time mean that there are more and more stress and mistakes and excesses of powers, which consequently means that we have a problem in the police because of the lack of people, the underpaid people and the lack of investment in education. In view of the above, I would like to conclude that we support the resolution, we expect more plural police work, more money for staff, more money for education, and, above all, that we will not get caught up in the fact that money will be less and we will privatise police work, because on the other hand, we see that there are increasing numbers of people working in the private sector who are somehow causing competition to police work, but there are even more problems. I expect that we will take these new concepts into account in our objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u67	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, for which Dr Göncz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We also examined the proposal for a resolution on a long-term development programme on the police by 2025 in the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. We believe that the proposed content largely answers key questions, questions about the long-term development of the police and can be the basis for the preparation of all its medium-term work plans, so we will also support this resolution. On this occasion, however, it is also important to note the changed circumstances due to the situation in the area of refugee and migration, which requires the simultaneous and spontaneous complementarity and upgrading of both activities and such development plans. It does not need to be emphasized that, from the beginning of the proposed text to this day, many things have happened and new challenges are emerging. On this occasion, I should particularly like to thank the Minister for Good Cooperation and Discussions with my Hungarian colleague yesterday, when, in my opinion, they have resolved the very unpleasant situation in the past days so that this can be a model for the future resolution of such bilateral matters. So, as I said before, such and similar concrete challenges will probably be in the coming days, weeks, much more. We welcome one of the important messages of the motion for a resolution, a clear focus on expertise in the most important police guidelines. On this occasion, I would also like to stress in particular the continued good cooperation of all police structures with the Italian and Hungarian national communities or with their competent organisations, which is particularly important in the areas where the two communities live. In this regard, we propose, through the cooperation of the police with the national communities mentioned above, that, in the spirit of good cooperation, education continue to provide and upgrade language training for Italian and Hungarian police officers to carry out all their duties in the areas of the municipalities in which the said communities live. We also propose that additional efforts be made to make meaningful and professionally justified transfers of potential police officers to national mixed areas that have been educated in the areas mentioned and speak Italian or Hungarian and also want to work in these areas. The language training of Italian and Hungarian police is also one of the concrete measures aimed at the police included in the Government's Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Rules on bilinguality 2015-2018 adopted by the Government and confirmed by the Commission for National Communities a few weeks ago. Well, we'll back up the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u69	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u70	Say good-bye to everyone again! Plus, Mrs. Bizakik's minister. The position of the Modern Centre Party on the resolution is as follows. I am pleased that it is at a time when the police are doing extraordinary work that we accept such an important document. What's this all about? The resolution on the long-term development of the police programme by 2025 was actually formulated for four years. I would not like to list everything that is written in this extensive document, but to say and commend that it is well-designed and structured in this place. Of course, colleagues from other options have their own views, but regardless of this it is necessary to find that this is undoubtedly a key developmental document, which can also be a guiding strategic document that responds to today's issues of police development and ensures priorities based both on short-term and long-term visions of the development of the part of the body itself. The purpose of the resolution is the high level of legal and personal security of people, the safety of their property, our property, if I may say so, strengthening the rule of law, strengthening cooperation with the local community, which is undoubtedly important in this work, and, of course, the fulfilment of obligations in ensuring international security in the police field, and finally, it is also necessary to say that the police legislation is being revised. If we agree with the fact that the safety of citizens is among the most important goods, it is particularly reasonable to tell everyone that it is not free. What do I mean by that? The resolution will remain only a letter on paper if it is not therefore good, I stress security, systemically – you can also understand financially – invested in the development of personnel, equipment and techniques. Here it should be pointed out that in this place the Government has listened to this and also the Minister with the ministerial team at the head and has increased funds, which we welcome in the SMC. In the Modern Centre Party, we absolutely support the motion for a resolution, which we believe is forward-looking, and we agree that the tactics and methods of police work will enable us to adapt to the current situations and challenges that are undoubtedly large, as we see from the daily media reports. This is also evident from events and, of course, from changing all these things, which are unpredictable and very short-term. We also expect that the police leadership and the ministry will be able to adapt. In the SMC, we are also pleased that all the parliamentary parties in the presentation of the resolution on the parent committee supported it and thus demonstrated their responsibility that this moment in which we live, where security plays an extremely important role, and that we are all aware that this resolution is one of the key elements for the continuation of then operationalisation and then for the more precise functioning of the police. Allow me to comment on yesterday's statements by the police union, where there was talk about European salaries. I think that, given that the Minister and the government team have demonstrated its purpose in these last two years and has shown that funds for the Ministry of the Interior have increased, they have shown their relationship, which, I think, is correct and I think that the unions may have prematured this statement, which does not follow what the facts and the Minister's action show. If you want – I have to end by being proud of the work of the police, which has been neglected for many years and has been like a skyscraper, an ugly duck placed in a corner. With this document we will give her the tools and validity and show that we are really working together with the Government and the Minister to work towards getting the police, police and police officers, the kind of force they deserve in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u71	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I only brought this note with me because of the address. A document entitled Proposal for a resolution on the long-term development programme of the police by 2025 will be supported in the parliamentary group. With regard to the document, let me put it this way. We have a strange legal system in which we adopt a resolution on resolutions, resolutions and so on. This is what they call the company's development strategy at home, they call those who plan for 10 years to come. This could also be a police development strategy, which would be more normal; but, well, this is the legal system. The problem that I personally see in this case is the following. That all the resolutions we adopt do not, of course, apply only to this, but for all others, there is one signature missing; the signing of the Minister of Finance. If this document were to be signed by the Minister of Finance, this would mean that, in the next period, it would provide this EUR 500 million by 2025, and the situation would be different. But of course, I'm not just talking about this document, I'm talking about the resolution in general. Of course it is with the police, and so is the state, as usually people say: I don't like to see a policeman except when I need him. It's about the same with the country. In 1990, 1991, Slovenian police had enough money available for everything that had to be done at the time, because that country needed the police. Now they are still driving in some vehicles from 1990, 1991 — so we are clear. Then comes a period of some stability, some security, and so on, when the state forgets the police. But I have a feeling that now maybe there's some time coming again because of the current migratory flows and something else that happened for a while, when we could invest a little bit more in the police. These cartridges are absolutely necessary. I've already talked about the fact that, in terms of human resources, the police went down 2,000 people when many other sectors, education and others, just increased. Since 2000, we have increased the number of teachers at all levels, but the number of children has fallen again, which is a sort of nonsense. With the police, we have now reduced the number of police officers by 2,000 in recent years since 2007. While the resolution now limits some 8 000; what is now again for my terms, Minister, is somewhat questionable; on the one hand, congratulations for success, if you manage to keep this matter, I must say so. But there is also something to say if, theoretically, Croatia in 2018, 2019, I don't know when, entering the Schengen is the number 8 thousand 100 and so large. This figure is then too large in this case because Slovenia is probably around 6,000 500 police officers with the established Schengen, Croatian Schengen, if I say so, is probably an optimist, because otherwise we will come with the number of police officers above all reasonable borders. The train park – I think there is nothing to add, it is a disaster and it is certainly necessary for cartridges, spaces are many, many times, except now for the General Police Administration and the management of the Ministry at Litostrojski 54 and also in some locations in Slovenia, appropriate, but also have police stations, the case is Šentjur, where 20, 30 or more police officers work in a two- or three-bedroom apartment, there could immediately be shut down souls if we follow any normal standards. In short, these are the problems that this country will absolutely have to invest in in terms of the police, there is no doubt about this anymore. Sometimes I'm surprised that the police are able to hold on to such rooms and that the inspection services don't react to what I didn't want to do as a minister, but I believe that's the way it is today, but that's how it is. European wages were mentioned just before me. This is a kind of problem, the police will always show you that they have 660 euros in salaries, which is not true at all, because already in 2012 payments were there about 860, we are talking about payments for that lowest job. But it is true that they are talking about European salaries. Here, of course, we'll probably never come together. The average of one country is the average of the police, and this is a rule that should be respected, and at the moment this average is below the European average for Slovenian police. I'm sorry. I'm out of time. In short, we will support this document, but it is true that, like all resolutions, the signing of the Minister of Finance is lacking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u73	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u74	Dear Mr. President, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State! The Desus Group supports the efforts of the Ministry of the Interior and the police to resolve the human and financial situation in the police line, as the implementation of the resolution proposal before us today will also depend on resolving these issues. The motion for a resolution on the long-term development programme of the police by 2025 is a strategic document on the development of the Slovenian police, which took several years. Police have faced major organisational and substantive changes over the past 20 years from Slovenia's entry into the Schengen area to the establishment of the National Investigation Office and the implementation of the Libra project. The police are also facing new challenges in the future. We have witnessed one of these in those days when the whole of Europe and Slovenia are facing a refugee crisis. The motion for a resolution is based on safety risk assessments and sets out the key objectives to be achieved and the ways and methods to reach them. Time-limits for the performance of tasks are set and financial resources are also defined for the implementation of tasks and performance indicators are set. The resolution is a living document that cannot record everything the police will have to implement in the next decade. This means that the document is likely to have to be supplemented and medium-term plans and plans for the work of the police will also be prepared. The expectations of society for the police are high, especially in the face of new security threats. To a lesser extent, the police can satisfy them with adjustments and reallocations and in most cases new development investments will be necessary. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is, therefore, to maintain and strengthen the high level of legal and personal security of people and their property, to strengthen the rule of law, to strengthen cooperation with the local community, to deconcentrate the police and to ensure international obligations. Notwithstanding the fact that the resolution itself is a well-established document with well-defined objectives and priorities, we must be aware that without additional financial inputs the tasks of the police will not be realized. In the Desus Group, we estimate that the strategic objectives set can only be achieved with good and motivated staff, so we must not forget the social situation of the police. Police officers are carrying out hazardous and responsible work, which means they must accept an appropriate payment for the work they have done. At the same time, the corresponding remuneration and the appropriate rewards for the above-average work will prevent the large outflows that police have been facing over the past few years. It is true that the motion for a resolution covers a 10-year period, but personal income movements need to be achieved earlier, and properly rewarded police officers are also more resistant to the various pressures they face in their workplaces. In the Desus Group, we are aware that the Ministry of the Interior is working to correct the anomaly in the police's pay system and that discussions and coordination with the Ministry of Public Administration are taking place on this subject. This year, police have also acquired some additional funds to facilitate the implementation of regular tasks. Police officers have been exposed to stress and provocation in their work, especially in recent times, as they face increasing threats, are involved in major accidents, they have to face the death of colleagues and so on. This requires the psychological and emotional support offered to police officers by the Centre for Research and Social Skills. According to the Ministry's assessment, it is properly carrying out its tasks to help stress-management police officers, which means that this form of assistance in the ranks of police officers is well taken care of. One of the most important segments of the resolution is traffic safety on motorways and traffic police operations, which has decreased considerably in the summer months. In the Desus Group, we believe that if we want to achieve the result of no road fatalities in the future, the police will also need to be strengthened and technically better equipped to carry out all activities on Slovenian roads and motorways in addition to preventive actions. As we have been briefed by a representative of the Ministry, it is envisaged for 2016 that the police will receive new equipment aimed at strengthening security on Slovenian roads. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u75	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The mission of the police as a body within the Ministry of the Interior is to ensure the security of people and property, to prevent, detect and investigate crime, to ensure public order and peace, to protect the state border, to monitor road transport, and in particular to implement measures that contribute to improving the safety of all road users. The document we are considering today in plenary is of a strategic nature and is the direction of the development of the police for a period of 10 years, that is until 2025. The drafters of this strategic document assessed that a total of EUR 512 million would be needed to carry out all those tasks in the resolution. In addition, they say that the implementation of the long-term development programme of the police will depend mainly on financial resources and will adapt both to the security and to the public financial situation. Social Democrats are aware that ensuring security and peace is not self-evident, and the development of the whole society depends on the effective functioning of the national security system and the successful management of the new security challenges, and therefore adequate financial resources must be provided, and they must be dealt with in an extremely and prudent manner. Ensuring security for all social groups must be and remain in the public domain. In short, despite the bold development plans of the police, it is only necessary to mention that the European Union's crisis and pressures have prevented the development of not only the police but also many other important subsystems of Slovenian society. The budgetary resources for investments in infrastructure rehabilitation, which is urgently needed for the police, have been constantly reduced in development. The police shared the fate of the majority of budget consumers, there were no additional jobs, and among the reasons for disposing of experienced police personnel, we can safely include wage cuts, suspension of advances and other additions, and retirement, all because of savings and consolidation of the banking system. People's confidence in the functioning of the police is, in our view, at least very high, but individual negative phenomena within the functioning of the police should not be generalised. It is not to be overlooked that we expect a lot from the police, aware that police work is stressful and dangerous, as well as many events that are mentally very burdensome, such as traffic accidents, especially those, unfortunately, with a fatal outcome. It must be acknowledged, however, that the police have successfully completed the establishment of the Schengen border with the establishment of the National Investigation Office, with regard to the entry of Slovenia into the European Union. The document has developed and clearly explained individual measures, and we therefore assess that the development of the police is aimed – let me narrow them down to just four points – for the first time, to effective management and management; to the development of human resources as a second time; and thirdly, to the development of systemic projects in the maintenance of public order and peace and to investment in people and property and for the fourth time, to invest in technological development. The guarantee that the police will also act in accordance with the mission, vision, fairness and impartiality in the coming period, and at the same time develop and successfully address the challenges posed by global trends in all types of crime, terrorism and the security situation and risks that are changing. Your Honor! Security and peace are in addition to the health of the goods that we put citizens and citizens of Slovenia first. But security and peace are not as self-sufficient as we think. There are more than 51 million refugees in the world, mostly after World War II, more than half of them children and teenagers, because of violence and poverty. The challenge of the 21st century to solve the world’s greatest refugee tragedy is thus at our door. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u77	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a resolution, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, that's the first defensively proposed bill to supplement the law on the protection of cultural heritage. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Andre Couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u78	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In the SDS Group, we have been working since the beginning of the National Assembly to find solutions in all areas of life. We have thus tabled 35 legislative amendments at this time to improve both the present and the future. Today we are looking at the novels of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. We note that due to some inconsistencies in this law, procedures regarding the resolution of the problem of revolutionary seas on Slovenian soil may be hampered needlessly. By means of the proposed law, we want to remove obstacles that have proved to be in practice since the adoption of this law and could affect the process of decent burial of victims and the identification of guilt and the responsibility for deliberate, systematic and mass killings that have taken place on Slovenian soil. The treatment of the remains of victims of revolutionary violence during World War II and after World War II is subject to regulation in the War Cemetery Act, in the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims, which seeks to supplement the War Cemetery Act and also in the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. We can say that, despite the fact that for 25 years since the end of the totalitarian regime, which has covered these killings, there are still more than 600 hidden seas on Slovenian soil. While the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims provides that the deceased remains of the victims may be buried by their relatives, Article 12 provides that the graves shall be entered into the register of cultural heritage, which shall be subject to the protection regime, as applicable to the protection of cultural heritage. The Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage provides that the remains are archaeological remains owned by the State and can only be handed over to the museum, unless the property of the rest is already known. It cannot be known, however, if the remains were not dug up and identified. But that can only happen if we assume that it's a war grave, which is impossible to assume if the excavation doesn't actually take place. Notwithstanding the fact that the purpose of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims was not the same, the uncertainty and formal obstacles in the current regime remain and constitute unnecessary obstruction of both the procedures of a decent burial and the investigations of liability for the murdered victims. In view of the fact that the subject of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act is the determination of the remains as archaeological remains related to the graves established on the basis of the rules on war graves that have been underground or underwater for at least 50 years, we propose that a special treatment regime be arranged for these others. We propose that all persons killed, regardless of the circumstances, be treated in accordance with the principle of criminal procedure. The proposed amendment of the law shall set out the duty of anyone who runs into a mass seas to inform the police. Following the amendment of the law, the State Prosecutor's Office and other competent national authorities must carry out a victim identification procedure and determine which offences are obsolete and which are not. The bill also seeks to provide that all procedures are conducted in a manner that does not interfere with the procedures of a decent burial of the remains and other procedures. We suggest that, as soon as possible after identification, descendants and relatives may bury the victims with dignity or if identification is not possible or no one will bury the victims, these victims will be buried in a grave in dignity, for which the ministry responsible for the funeral activity will be responsible. In matters that divide the nation, we need to lay down the legal basis as clearly as possible to resolve these issues at the earliest possible time, especially when it comes to ensuring the personal dignity of the 10,000 killed and their descendants. Members and Members of the National Assembly owe this mainly to younger generations who do not want to keep sharing on issues that should have been resolved in every civil society long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u79	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, on her behalf, Minister of Culture Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not in a position to support and consider that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, as it identifies a number of legal and professional shortcomings which make it impossible to support this law. Otherwise, we can commend all efforts to resolve the issues of a decent burial of all the victims of the war. The Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage defines the archaeological remnant as archaeological remains and also includes items related to graves established on the basis of the rules on war graves and by war, together with archaeological and natural contexts that have been underground or underwater for at least 50 years. This is what Article 3(3) of this Law states. Such remnants shall become an inheritance after the completion of the professional identification and registration. While the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in July this year, which in relation to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is later and special law, Article 9, paragraph 7, explicitly stipulates that the remains found are protected and documented in accordance with forensic principles and not in archaeological terms. This means that such mortal remains cannot become an archaeological heritage under the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, as no archaeological professional identification is carried out. The applicant submits that the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage impede the procedures for regulating the problem of hidden graves or remains on Slovenian soil. The statement that the remains as archaeological remains are owned by the State and can only be surrendered to the museum does not apply, since Article 6 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and not Article 28, as stated in the draft law, explicitly stipulates that the provisions on the ownership of the State do not apply to archaeological findings originating from military graves, for which ownership is established. The Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims in Article 5, paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 12 provides that newly discovered war graves, these are those that have been recorded, and the existence of mortal human remains has already been proven, and they are also registered in the register of cultural heritage, in accordance with the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, upon registration in the War Cemetery Register. By entering the Cultural Heritage Register under the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, it does not obtain a protection regime, so it cannot be an obstacle to the procedures of a decent burial as well as to the investigation of liability for the murdered victims. The Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims for Hidden War Cemeteries also excludes the obligation to obtain consent for research and the removal of the archaeological remnant under article 31 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The exception to which cultural consent is to be obtained in the case of war graves is the location which is protected for other reasons as a cultural heritage; for example, a Roman-era archaeological site, a monument of State importance and others, which is a general standard for all interventions. It follows from the above that the acquisition of cultural protection consent does not impede the regulation of the issue of hidden graves or the decent burial of remains on Slovenian soil. The arrangements for a decent burial of victims who have not been identified and the identification of who is responsible and responsible are not subject to the regulation of the area of protection of cultural heritage. With a view to regulating this area, the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims was adopted in July this year. Nor is the subject of the protection of cultural heritage dealt with by murdered persons on the principle of equality of criminal proceedings and the exhumation of post-mortem remains. In short, there are many reasons, because this is the last issue which governs criminal law in accordance with international humanitarian law, with the principles and rules on the treatment of the dead set out in the Geneva Conventions. These are all the reasons why this law cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u81	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed novel deals with a very serious and sensitive subject. We Christian Democrats have been working for a long time to accept this chapter of our past history with the knowledge that we have not fully cleared up and regulated it as it should have been. A respectful attitude toward all the dead is also important, especially the victims of postwar, revolutionary violence and their relatives. The Novela proposes two major changes. First, it defines the concept of the sea. As we understand it, the sea is a war grave as defined in Article 2 of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. In view of the criminal nature of the crimes that have caused such deep wounds in our nation, the Christian Democrats do not object to this first proposal, although all graves are not necessarily also a murder site, as the crime could have occurred elsewhere and the victims were transported from there to existing graves. The second solution proposed is the proposal to regulate additional procedures in the event of the discovery of hidden war graves, to deal with the post-mortem remains on the basis of exhumation and to provide that the competent authority for the conduct of these proceedings is the State Prosecutor's Office. Christian Democrats believe that all these procedures are very clearly and comprehensively regulated in the recently adopted Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Funerals of the Victims. The fact is that all procedures for detecting post-war graves or seas are already regulated in detail by the Criminal Procedure Act, the Penal Code and the Police Powers Act. Any interference of cultural law with crime research is unacceptable from this point of view. So when any remains of bone are discovered in the field, where there is a possibility of human remains, the police are informed. Procedures shall be initiated which are exactly the same as for the investigation of any offence of official prosecution. This is also the opinion of the Commission of the Republic of Slovenia for the resolution of hidden graves. The members of this Commission supported the adoption of our law, recognizing in it all the legal basis on which the Commission will be able to continue its important work more intensively and to complete it. The completed work, however, means that the remains of these victims will not only be discovered but also buried, like all other victims of war and slaughter, their graves or tombs will also be protected, as stipulated by the law in force. This part of the novel is therefore unnecessary in our view, as these procedures have recently been comprehensive and therefore there is a legal basis for a decent burial of all victims. In the first reading, Christian Democrats will support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u83	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u84	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary! Good afternoon, everyone. It seems that the SDS, which at the time of the adoption of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of the victims to the law has not been defined at all and has abstained in the voting, is later trying to play a role in this area, namely, the role of problem solvers that do not actually exist. It is quite unclear why the SDS thinks that the problem of revolutionary seas should be solved by a new Law on Cultural Heritage, not by cooperating in the creation of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims; by cooperation that was not available from them. Now that he has taken a train on which they have not entered the demonstration, they are trying to rediscover the goals that have already been achieved by the Law on Hidden Cemetery and the Burial of the Victims without their participation. The SDS suggests that the current Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage unnecessarily impedes procedures, as they say, regarding the resolution of the problem of revolutionary seas on Slovenian soil and declares that their amendment of this law will remove all these alleged obstacles and, in fact, it looks as if the SDS wants to cause confusion in the recently properly regulated area by amending the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The additions proposed do not fall within the area of protection of cultural heritage, neither in substance nor in the legal system, but in terms of even less. As it has been said, if they had not recently decided to participate in the formation of the law or had now found out what needed to be improved, at least they could have proposed a new law. It is in relation to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage later and special law and eliminates any possible previous ambiguities and shortcomings. If we tear it up. The SDS, with an impressive novelty, proposes to define the procedure for finding the site and informing the competent authorities, i.e. the criminal police and the Commission, to address the issues of hidden graves, but the whole procedure is already detailed in Article 9, paragraph 1, of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. Priority shall be given to the reasons for the inclusion of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, which are immediately informed of the existence of the cemetery. The SDS further proposes an exhumation procedure, identification of victims and a search for those responsible under the law governing criminal proceedings. Exactly the same detail defines the seventh paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims, and I quote: "The remains found are protected and documented in accordance with forensic principles, the remains found are protected and documented by the Commission in order to resolve the issues of hidden graves..." End of story. So, the mortal remains are protected and documented according to forensic principles and not archeologically. At this point, it is essential to draw attention to the findings of modern international practice, which, in rare cases, has identified a lack of forensic methods and has undoubtedly identified itself as an archaeological method as complementary and the only one that can answer all emerging questions. The proposal seeks to exclude the archaeological method with a novelty. It also means that the statement put forward by the SDS in the grounds for receiving the novel is that the remains will become an archaeological remnant, state ownership and that they will end up in a museum depot, has no basis and means pure manipulation. All other topics that the SDS is trying to place in the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage do not belong here. For example, the arrangement of a decent burial of victims who are not identified and responsible for this task is a matter of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims, not of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The treatment of those killed in accordance with the principle of equality of criminal procedure and the exhumation of the remains is not under the jurisdiction of cultural heritage but rather of criminal law, international humanitarian law and Council of Europe and European Parliament resolutions. If I do. The applicant failed to discuss the alleged thesis, i.e. where there are some obstacles in the current law, which he is trying to amend, to the execution of procedures relating to the management of hidden graves. The subject matter of the proposed, otherwise poorly produced and groundless text dealing with the definition of seas does not fall within the scope of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, so we are opposed and will not support the proposed law in the Party Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u85	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, distinguished Madam Minister! Slovenia is a country defrauded by mass killings and remains, for which the communist revolutionary power is solely responsible. Because of the violent takeover of power, the protagonists of the revolution have found themselves in the most extreme violence against their own nation and the result — the murder of tens of thousands of victims who do not yet have their graves and a decent burial. That these victims do not yet have a grave is a result of years of concealment and covering up criminal history. As part of such a cover-up, and in particular the absence of self-reflection, it is also clear that you are not yet able to condemn the communist regime on the political left, which, like fascism and Nazism, has caused much distress to the Slovenian people. The resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which speaks very highly of the condemnation of totalitarian regimes, unfortunately only exists on paper in our country, because the issue of the actual condemnation of totalitarian regimes is still an unfulfilled act. Today, when the criminal nature of the communist regime is no longer hidden in all the exposed postwar seas, such as the Huda Cave, Thesno, the bishoply and ecclesiastical area, the Celje area and elsewhere in Slovenia, this fact of the postwar sea is trying to justify itself through festive speeches at various celebrations. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me just remind you of Minister of Defence Andreja Katič's speech, which said, among other things, that the Slovenian future is a life of values that were established after the end of World War II. If the value of the Minister of Defence is that we have more than 600 hidden seas, then in the value system, this country has indeed become deeply confused. In our legislation, we have a number of laws that deal with postwar graves or seas and the post-death remains of victims of revolutionary violence during and after World War II. The Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims was also passed, but there are still very few excavations, identifications of the victims and then a decent burial. The procedures for dealing with the remains of the victims are very vague and intertwine to the extent that they interfere with the procedures of a decent burial or the search of victims from the seas into individual or common graves. This can also be seen in the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, some of the shortcomings resulting from the non-systematic regulation of this issue and unnecessarily impede the procedures for regulating the problem of seas on Slovenian soils. There are unnecessary complications and slow action between the ministry responsible for the wars of graves and the ministry responsible for the cultural heritage. This was shown, for example, in the case of a burial site or cemetery in Kopiště, the area of Kamnika Bistrica, which had not acquired the status of cultural heritage until 2014, although this acquisition had already been made possible by the 2008 Cultural Heritage Protection Act. That is why, respected colleagues and colleagues, the purpose of the amendment of this law, which we are submitting to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, is to remove any obstacles that may affect the process of decent burial of victims and the determination of guilt and the responsibility for deliberate systematic and mass killings that have taken place on Slovenian soil. To date, no one has been responsible for these killings, even though the criminalist action has led to important findings and also to irrefutable evidence, which the prosecution simply rejected. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we want to achieve by means of a new law that, in any case, when we find the site, the exhumation process begins; that is, the excavation and identification of victims according to the principles of criminal procedure. When the remains are identified, they can be buried in a personal grave or in a group grave by their choice. The victims are therefore treated on an equal footing, as is the case with all other murdered persons, in accordance with the principle of criminal procedure and the procedure for exhuming the remains of the deceased. This is managed by the competent authority, and we all know that this authority is the state prosecutor's office. This State Prosecutor's Office is then the one who decides which offences are obsolete in accordance with the principles of criminal and international law and which are not obsolete. Anyone who encounters a mass killing must also inform the criminal police, while at the same time it is the duty of the competent state authorities and the competent commissions to inform the criminal police of the records of mass killings. Regardless of the procedures and irrespective of the bureaucratic complications arising from existing laws, family members or descendants may properly bury the victims after the identification has been made. If the victim cannot be identified within one year of the excavation or is not buried by his or her relatives, the Ministry responsible for the funeral activity shall bury the victims in a common grave in such a way that identification is possible at any time. Nor does regulation in existing laws regulate where a decent burial of victims who have not been identified and who is responsible and responsible. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is proposed that the law establishes that the Ministry responsible for the graves is the one which is also obliged to regulate the common grave. From the point of view of the dignity of the victims and their descendants, it is totally unacceptable that the current legal system equates the grave to the sea. I have repeatedly warned of this when I passed the Law on Hidden War Cemetery and the Burial of the Victims. First, the burial of the victims cannot be merely a description of the murder in nature, for the burial is an act of dignity and must be attended by the relatives and representatives of the victims. Secondly, the victims of revolutionary violence must be buried in the same way as the victims of revolutionary violence, otherwise it is a mockery of their dignity. Here let me remind you of a special event that took place on 6 September in the parish church in Sorica, although it is not directly related to this issue, but it is an important step for all of us to move forward. For at that time there was a holy mass with the discovery of the memorial plate in remembrance and memory of the 24 missing victims after the end of the Second World War in the villages of the Lower Torca, Ravna and Sorica. What is essential is clearly stated on the memory board: In memory of the victims of Communist violence. So it's not some mark of the victim after World War II, but in memory of the victims of communist violence, that we know exactly who it was that caused the violence. The laws that deal with postwar covered graves and intertwine with each other build the definition of a military cemetery under the War Cemetery Act 2003. It was for these reasons that we obstructed the voting both in the SDS Group and in the New Slovenia Group. The definition of a war grave was inappropriate at the time and is inappropriate today, so in the SDS we have moved from warnings to actions and we want this clear distinction to be made today between the war cemetery and the sea. This is what we must do to protect the integrity of the victims and their relatives. For there are two completely separate concepts that are essential to ensuring the dignity of the victims, since the cemetery cannot possibly be the place where the victim was killed or brought to this place in order to cover up her murder. The military cemetery is for the victims of revolutionary violence, and especially for civilians who have never been proven or rejected before the law, it is a completely wrong marking both from a historical and an ethical and legal point of view. If we just look at the historical aspect first. The fact is, the communist revolution has killed more than 10,000 people since World War II. They were killed or killed after most of the war, when peace came, so we certainly cannot define this cemetery as a war grave. For it is the destruction of civilians and prisoners of war in peaceful times, including women and children. If we look at the ethical aspect. If the place where people were killed out of court is marked as a cemetery instead of a sea, then you don't want us to go into the integrity of the victims and their relatives, because that's not a real and real definition. As a country, we are obliged to ensure that the victims of the revolution find their eternal peace and peace in a new individual or common grave, not in the sea, which we simply turn into a war grave. This is unacceptable and unacceptable. The victims of the Srebrenica genocide also found their grave with a cross to another place. All different solutions are inhumane and unethical. And if we look at the legal aspect: if the definition of a military cemetery fails to contain a historical and ethical aspect, the legal one cannot. Then the legal definition is merely a revision of history by a political majority. We need to know it was violent deaths, so we can't talk about the graves, but we can only talk about the killings, the crime scenes. This is where the most horrendous executions were carried out. The Witnesses confirm that people were also beaten to death by shoplifting and then buried deep underground. Not to mention the Evil Cave, where many people were buried alive in a mine pit, where they slowly and horribly died. So this, respected colleagues and colleagues, cannot be called a burial, but it is a cover-up of crime, of a crime which, under international and Slovenian law, is never obsolete under resolutions and conventions. The search for those responsible for a crime that is never outdated is as ethical as the legal norm by which we give a clear signal that crime must be punished. If we do not do so as a country, we are doomed to repeat the bloody events of the past. The politicians of the left political field are doing unknown harm and injustice to the Slovenian nation by protecting crimes and criminals. All of these victims were killed out of court solely on the basis of an ideological criterion. If the equality and dignity of the victims of all totalitarianism, their relatives and descendants are truly advocated, they must also be given equal standards for burial. Imagine that the worthy burial of the Srebrenica victims would be carried out only by marking the murder site in nature, which would thus be declared a burial ground. When you think about how to vote, you remember that. The proposal follows the following objectives and principles. First time. With a view to faster treatment for mass killings, the protection of cultural heritage is separated from other procedures, a decent burial, a determination of responsibility and thus does not interfere with the potential protection regimes of heritage, which must be in everyone's memory and reminder. Another time. The undisturbed procedure of a decent burial shall be ensured and thus the dignity of the victims irrespective of the procedures concerning cultural heritage, since human dignity is one of the highest protected human rights. Third time. It shall be ensured that responsibility is established for the mass killings of persons subject to the amendment of the law. Fourth time. Unidentified victims shall be allowed a decent burial after one year and the possibility of the remains being identified later. Fifth. Equal treatment of murdered victims with others killed according to today's standards and procedures shall be ensured. And six times. Notwithstanding the existing procedures under the law governing the protection of cultural heritage and the laws governing hidden graves and bureaucratic obstacles, victims' relatives or descendants shall be allowed to bury their victims with dignity. I will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. At the same time, I ask all Members and Members of Parliament to support the amendments to the Cultural Heritage Act. In particular, all those who have also supported the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries, as it is with the changes that we propose, to clarify the procedure with a view to properly burying the victims of communist revolutionary violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u87	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present my position on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Let me begin by expressing the disappointment of the Desus Group on the fact that today there is a proposal for a law before us, which unfortunately is a haven for the continuation of party fighting on interpretations of interwar and post-war history, to which we have witnessed at the time of the July adoption of the Law on Hidden Cemeteries and the burial of the victims. There was a lot of talk about the positive consequences of the adoption of the law at the time of consideration of the Act. Among other things, it has been said that the law will finally give victims hope that their domestics will be buried with dignity, that it is the last step toward making the law finally regulate all the open issues that were not dealt with in 2003 by the War Cemetery Act. Unfortunately, after two months before us, there is another proposal for a law that shows exactly the opposite. It is clear from the introduction that the applicants are introducing a law of similar origin, if not even the same reasons for the adoption of the law in July. In the Desus Group, we wonder if these are really the steps to be taken. As we have already said at the presentation of our Group's position on the adopted law of the New Slovenia Group, in the Desus Group we do not want to re-enhance ideological divisions with such laws, but unfortunately this time too. Above all, we sincerely hope that this time, too, it is not about gathering political points at the expense of sad human destiny and personal tragedies. Lawmakers, Members and Members of the SDS, as reasons for the adoption of the law, state that procedures for the treatment of the victims' remains are intransparable and intertwine to the extent that they obstruct the procedures of a decent burial or burial. The proposal further introduces the immediate identification of the guilt and responsibility for the killings that took place on Slovenian soil and replaces the current term of the archeological remnant with the concept of the crime scene as proposed. In all this, the applicants seem to forget that part of their proposals are already regulated by the Law on Hidden Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims and the Law on War Cemeteries. Given that we did not support the Law on Hidden Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims in the Desus Group, because we felt that it would be better to supplement the existing Law on War Cemeteries and thus prevent the regulation of the same matter in two laws, today we are even more opposed to the opening of the articles of another law, this time the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The regulation of the same matter by which the three laws do not make sense or introduces ambiguity into the legal order and would therefore be compromised by legal certainty, as it would not be clear which regulation has the primate or applicable in a particular area of the performance of the tasks laid down in the law. Finally, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is a general law that sets out ways of cultural heritage with a view to its integral preservation. It is perfectly understandable that that law cannot regulate the procedures of a decent burial. It should also be clear to everyone that the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage cannot regulate criminal proceedings or procedures to seek responsibility for killings. This issue is governed by Criminal Law in accordance with international humanitarian law. In the light of what was said in the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal of the SDS Members and Members will not contribute in any way to solving the problem of the procedures of a decent burial of victims, but rather to solving the procedures of prosecution. We are convinced that the adoption of such a proposal would lead to even longer procedures for the management of hidden graves, which should not be the aim of the applicants. In the parliamentary group, we ask whether the proposal was intended to state that the bill has no financial implications for the budget and other financial resources or funds are foreseen, including the budget line of the prosecution and the criminal police, which, due to financial undernutrition, is already barely providing for the situation of uninterrupted work. Respected and respected! Let us be honest, the financial implications will be that the proposal also provides for the identification of post-mortem residues. In the Desus Group, we believe that financial resources cannot in any way be an excuse for a silent attitude toward all the dead. We've already said all this at the reading of the Law on Hidden Cemetery and the Burial of the Victims. New Slovenia's proposals were discovered at the time as they predicted the financial consequences of between EUR 500 000 and EUR 700 000, but of course the public prefers the financial consequences if the applicant simply does not foresee the financial consequences, as the proponents did. In the Desus Group, we believe that with such and similar proposals of laws we will achieve only that there will be opposition or support to the bill for political or ideological reasons. In doing so, we forget that a respectful attitude toward the dead is the foundation of mankind. In the light of the proposed law in the Desus Group, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u89	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u90	Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary-General! Today, we are once again faced with a bill aimed at easing divisions and allowing a decent identification and burial of victims of the horrors of brotherly combat. But the key message of his proposals is: it never is and will not be enough. The National Assembly can adopt so many laws that want to end this chapter of our history with dignity, but the SDS will always find something else to settle. All with the sole purpose of preserving this subject; not in the historical memory, but in this hall and in the public, and sharing us in this way; not as a reminder that we will never again allow the horror of brotherly violence, but as a living proof that some are prepared for everything for their daily political needs. It seems increasingly that the real purpose of the applicants is not to regulate the area and is not to clarify the ambiguity as they state. The sole purpose is to discuss this subject and continue to discuss it; not to face our history, and not to end the division among people. Despite the recent adoption of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of the victims and despite the fact that we have the applicable Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, we are receiving new and new proposals for regulating this area. Even before we re-adopted the law, the proposalers already foresee new shortcomings, long-term procedures and complications to be solved by their proposal for a law. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that this law is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly. This is not only because its solutions in no way contribute to clarifying the uncertainty, but only two months after the adoption of the special law governing this area, which shows that the applicants have no intention of concluding this story. However, the reasons on which they build their proposals are inconsistent and incorrect. The applicant argues that the protection of cultural heritage procedures impede and prolong procedures for a decent burial of victims, but that is not the case. The remains found are protected and documented according to forensic rather than archaeological principles. The applicant claims that the remains found are treated as an archaeological heritage and can only be handed over to the museum. That's not true either. At the same time, the proposer uses the allegations of abuse of the victim and his family for his political purposes. The applicants also argue that registering graves as cultural heritage and the related protection regime impedes the process of a decent burial, but that is not true. Because the graves described do not have a protective regime, they cannot prevent a decent burial from obstructing the investigation of responsibility for the victims killed. However, the adoption of this law would provide for another objective. The existing legislation would further complicate, prolong and further encourage the existing ones. This would give the applicants additional space for new demands and new burdens of Slovenia with the past. We are opposed to further divisions by the Social Democrats. Such and similar debates in this place do not mean their resolution, but rather their deepening. A few days ago, Miha Mazzini found out well when history remembers us, Slovenians, we fall apart into two completely contradictory extremes. This is how it happened seven decades ago, and it is obvious that the applicants want it to be so today and tomorrow. We tell them: Enough of the past, time for the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u91	The text is given by the United Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u92	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your word! Today, we are again considering one of the SDS proposals that calls for a permanent ideological occupation of the past, a second world war and a socialist Yugoslavia. In fact, how many such and other proposals have we considered in this good year of mandate as being in the middle of an emergency situation should be counted, and it is therefore more than clear that today's proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage in the United Left is considered inappropriate for further consideration. At the beginning of the summer, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, which was implemented by the New Slovenia Group with the support of the Stanka Modern Centre. The recently adopted law was drafted by an expert group, which is expected to be technical, and is intended to provide a basis for managing the situation as effectively as possible on the ground. The law was not only technical, as it referred to an extremely controversial resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, so we opposed it in the United Left. As we can read in the Government's opinion, the proposal for amendments to the Cultural Heritage Protection Act is inadequate from this point of view. The arguments put forward by the Government do not make sense to repeat, but it is important to point out that the resolution already mentioned and similar resolution 1.4.8.1 on the international condemnation of crimes of totalitarian communist regimes should be cited. In the United Left, we do not object to the arrangements of the cemetery in an appropriate way, but we strongly oppose the abuse and politicization of the bone. We are opposed to the change and embodiment of history, in other words to the historical revisionism that these two declarations represent or introduce. The purpose of these declarations is to impose a specific, conservative, right-wing understanding of modern Slovenian and world history. This is about changing historical facts, changing roles in World War II and hunting Communists. This poisons public debate, diverts attention and tries to justify those who have been on the wrong side of history. We don't agree to that. As a society, we must not forget what was going on in World War II. We know who fought for righteous things, i.e. national and cultural liberation, social liberation and fascist occupation. They were partisans. Many partisans, killed by the invader and his associates, have no grave today. Historical revisionism is part of a process that has been taking place for at least two decades not only in Slovenia but throughout Europe. It is a waiver of the anti-fascist heritage and a waiver of the progressive fight for the rights of workers, farmers, women and minorities, so today we can follow Orban's regime in Hungary, which is why the neo-Nazi Golden Dawn became the third most powerful party in the Greek Parliament. In the United Left, we are determined against the abuse of victims and the fabrication of history, so we are opposed to the proposed law to supplement the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u93	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a law. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor. Let Mr Bojan Podkoršek prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I must say that I have listened very carefully to the presentations of the views of other groups of Members. Of course, I can thank some for their support, and others who have announced that they will not support this proposal, but I can thank them for their opinion. Nevertheless, I would like to respond to some of the observations we have been given through their presentation. On the part of the Modern Centre Party, for example, we were attacked that somehow we do not want to cooperate, not to be included in the legislation adopted in the past. I must say that the SMC Party has not been invited to participate and co-form policies in the last year or since the elections. So, of course, I would like to say that before anyone discusses anything, you need to set up a mirror. I would also like to point out once again that we have proposed 35 legislative amendments ourselves, not one or one of which has received your consent. In the course of this one year of action in this call of the National Assembly, one gets the feeling, just to illustrate that if we could suggest that the earth is round, it would probably be against that. If we move on. It will be difficult to achieve reconciliation in Slovenia, but if the people involved hold figs in their pocket. We deal with the past, the present and the future. I myself said in my presentation that unfortunately this past has a heavy burden on us, and it is not fair, it is not right for the new generations that are coming after us to young people to continue to do so. Let us clear up once and for all, as they have done in all other countries in Europe, except for us, of course, this is a problem. A culture of dialogue, too, I must say, in all European countries, when people talk about it, people have a culture, a level of debate, while you only briefly mention something about it and you hear them say what you are – everything is alive. I agree with the representative of Desus that there will be some costs in the work of law enforcement agencies, including the judicial branches of government, but that is why they are at work and have a salary. However, we must agree that we have one of the most expensive justice systems in Europe. No one asks or looks at this. Even with the Social Democrats, I have to say, I liked it very much: let's deal with the future. Of course, we're open to it. However, I would like you to remind yourself of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunity to finally do something in the field of traineeships. In fact, one year is what we talk about, and now some search for solutions is being moved for a year. You still have to have a mirror, I say. But until all three totalitarian systems are unitedly condemned, it is difficult for me to imagine the unburdened future and Slovenia as a state of prosperity. I must also point out that the existing law, which was passed a few months ago, takes into account the existing law or recognises the regime for the protection of cultural heritage. That's something to be warned about. With the representatives of the United Left, I don't know, I don't like to talk about the past, but the Constitutional Court in its judgment said clearly and loudly what was going on, what was going on with this system. And I wouldn't use partisans for political propaganda now. I have nothing against them personally, and I don't know if anyone would ever have anything. But they were probably more problematic comrade revolutionaries. And I agree with that that's problematic. The reconciliation between the Slovenians has been and will also be a central point of determination in the future for the separation and the crime marked by the nation. Without it, Slovenians, even in new, perhaps more favourable circumstances, when, for the first time in recent history, we are also the master of our land, in our environment, we will not be able to breathe with full lungs. The prerequisite for reconciliation is, of course, the truth about the past. The magnification of the bloody past gives the impression that after the war they were killed, they were deservedly punished. Attempts to blur the truth and cover up genocide over his own nation and not punish those responsible for the mass wars, which has recently been strengthened. 70 years after World War II, those who, with the truth about the Slovenian past, would lose their privileges and benefits actually set new and new barriers. In the area of Slovenia, a large number of women and children were involved in the massacres of military prisoners and civilians at the end of World War II. Some today justify this by natural law and others by malicious interpretation of the international conventions in force at that time. I might have done it myself because we are in the National Assembly, a chronological review of the operation in this area and highlighted Dr. Jožet Pučnik. In fact, in 1996 an investigative commission was established in the National Assembly to investigate postwar massacres. On the basis of the testimony, the Commission found, inter alia, that the former non-democratic authority had imposed liquidations, that transports to the seaports had been organised, that Ozna had also been the one who, with the help of Knoj, carried out liquidations and could still speak. In particular, as a representative of the people and a member of the National Assembly, I would like to ask ourselves what message about our value system we will leave to young people and our craftsmen if we do not reach the civil standard of a burial that was self-evident in ancient Greece. Allow me to quote the former American ambassador, who also, as a sort of external observer, saw that this burden of the past is still present and strong, and he himself has sought to appease passion and reconciliation. Allow me to read: "But the key to understanding history is brave persistence in learning the truth, which is not possible without humility. We're all wrong, we all make mistakes when we try to become what we want to be. We should all respect the suffering of others and respect the decisions we must make. Sometimes we get so caught up in our own anger that we don't see the humanity of others. Only a combination of humility and compassion will gradually lead us to true reconciliation. As one of Slovenian friends said – I quote – 'the wounds will begin to heal only when we accept every life lost as a national tragedy when we repay every victim by building a better future for all Slovenes.' " The discussion would also focus on the debate of the Minister and also of government parties, i.e. coalition parties, on Articles 9 and 12. I would like to say that the argument that the current law regulates all this well already in Article 9 states that the remains are protected and documented in accordance with forensic principles and not in archaeological terms, which is not the case, or the existing law does not regulate in an effective way, as it provides that the remains found are protected and documented by the Government Commission in accordance with forensic principles. Well, not the crime police. Criminal police, the State Prosecutor's Office or the investigating judge shall pursue prosecution only if exhumation is carried out under the law governing criminal proceedings and only if the presumption of a military grave is established during the proceedings. The proposed novelty envisioned by our novel, the remains are immediately exhumed and treated as the remains of each other. This is done regardless of whether this location already has a cultural heritage regime or whether it is a war grave. This is the only way to determine exactly what is the cause of death and whether they are signs of a crime. Without the remains, it cannot be determined — that is, the cause of death and the confirmation of a war cemetery or murder site. Excavation of the remains shall be determined unconditionally, irrespective of their status, and the reasons for death shall be determined. So, the essence of the answer to this first argument from the Government, our proposal without unnecessary and double bureaucracy or bureaucracy determines that the remains of the deceased are first dug up, as is the case with all other remains of the deceased, and then finds out what it is. Some other arguments by the Government were also put forward in the debate, such as Article 6, which the Government refers to as being valid only for those archaeological findings for which ownership has been established, which in practice means that the remains in the killings are owned by the State until it is identified and identified by the owner. The purpose of our proposed arrangement is to bury all persons with dignity; if they are identified, they are buried by their own, if not or by their own, they are buried in a common grave, without any vague interpretations or bureaucratic complications that are present in our presence in essence since we have a National Assembly. I would also like to say that the main purpose of our proposal is to allow for a decent burial regardless of the procedures laid down in the current laws. The existing legislation and the recently adopted law lays down the entry into the register of cultural heritage, and our proposal for a law provides that, depending on whether or not it obtains a protection regime, an investigation and identification shall be carried out, irrespective of any procedures for the protection of cultural heritage. Procedures must be carried out in parallel, regardless of all possible options under the Cultural Heritage Act. In cases where these are subject to cultural heritage, of course, until the identity of the remains is established, the remains are also subject to the Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. How the current rules cited by the Government and the coalition's representatives serve to deal with the murdered are seen in the case of more than 600 still hidden graves, where more than tens of thousands of people are killed. Until identification, these individuals will still be archaeological remains. The purpose of our proposal for a law is to eliminate any ambiguity with a view to effectively ensuring a decent burial, and before that, the mortal remnant will be treated as any other mortal remains and to ensure that these acts are dealt with criminally. It is not about new regulation of cultural heritage, but only about more precise provisions where cultural heritage is the subject of the post-mortem remnants of that period. To wrap up the first part of the debate somehow. Don't you agree that we separate the cemeteries from the graves? They did it all over the place. Another time. Why don't you agree to treat the victims the same way? Third time. Why don't you agree that someone who sees or finds a body doesn't tell the police? And to conclude. Is it right that bureaucratic obstacles have been hindering a decent burial for 25 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u95	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Mr Saša Tabaković, behind him Matjaž Germany, should prepare himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Honourable Minister of Culture in the Republic of Slovenia, colleague and colleague! Today we are talking about amending the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. We have heard many times in the hall that we should no longer deal with this, that it is our past and that we prefer to deal with the future. I would not like to comment on soy co-workers and colleagues from various parliamentary groups, but would touch on the substance. I have a good memory since Friday's closing session, the last point was when we talked about some stock accounts, but a colleague of Shircelj and a colleague of Verbič, a colleague of the month, on the other hand, explained the matter to everyone in the Chamber, so that we understood it. And there was one part of the past, and of course we all understood that we need to change it for the better. I want to say that we are actually Members and Members of this National Assembly elected to resolve the problems in this Republic of Slovenia, not to create problems. Many times I feel like we're going where these problems are greater. Of course, every law, especially when it is changed, rarely does it happen that everyone has the same opinion. This is completely understandable. Of course, I am never disappointed in this segment, but I am disappointed repeatedly when we touch or propose a change of law. Of course, this law will only partially remove obstacles that will make the past, which one of course you do not want to talk about, easier to reach. Look, we're living in a time where we don't want any injustice to happen on any segment. Of course, we have so many opportunities in various institutions that this injustice can be removed from us immediately or proved. I remember these things a lot, this past. I go to the mountains, and when I see a little plate on a rock, it alerts me to something. Of course, it is impossible for a person to overlook the fact that he does not imagine what has certainly happened in that place, and he is automatically implanted in your head, that this is a reminder that on the part or on the way you are walking, there is still a bloody need to be careful. Of course, we're on our way too. I must say that the Slovenian Democratic Party is a little over 25 years old, that it is not now 65 years old or 70 years old, and also this item on the agenda – if this is a collection of political points now, then I must say that I do not understand everything. But it's a fact that this is our past that we're running from. For many years older people who meet each other on a daily basis, 20, 30, 40 years of age were not even allowed to talk about it, but they knew. Of course, when they started talking, I must admit, when I was a little younger, that I didn’t even believe it or I was in doubt. I must admit that it was only last year that I first set foot in the great sea, this is the Huda Cave, and at first I observed the surroundings, and then I thought about this content in this trench. When you think about it, questions, questions, especially when you know that there are children in there, that there are young people in there, that there are people in that ditch who don't even know why they came in there, they're still locked up, there's a lot of questions about why we haven't been able to do that – There's a lot of bad caves in Slovenia – there's a lot to do in the past. This difficult sea from the past, thank God today is the time to talk about it and to try, but the opinions are different so that it will be easier for our present, and more optimistic for those who come after us. We could talk about this point in the National Assembly for a week, probably getting more and more vaccinated, even if the session was closed so as not to find a common language. But it is a fact that I am sure of this, regardless of whether I am on the side of those who propose that if we are not able to regulate our past, we will find it difficult to live in the present, even more difficult to expect our future, whether we run away from it or not. Sooner or later – of course, when I listened to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, it is somehow clear that this bill will be rejected. We can get away from this, but we won't be able to run for long. That is why I propose, fellow Members and colleagues, that you do not attack Members and Members of our Group now, so that at this point we collect the polling points, because I find this completely unacceptable. However, we want this bill to be improved, because it is first considered, to say that it is still possible to add something to this section of the bill, so that the law can then go to second reading in such a way that it will allow these things. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u97	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany, followed by Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u98	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! As has already been clearly understood from the SMC Group's point of view and also underlined, the SDS Group's proposal is in itself regulated by the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries, which was adopted in July this year. In order to better understand the context of the proposal itself, and also in some way the political acrobatics of the SDS Group, it is necessary to highlight or present at this point what the actual political achievements have been in relation to this topic; and these were the achievements of SMC's members, together with the New Slovenia Group of Members and also some other Members, who are the law on hidden war graves, which regulates this topic in more detail, supported in July this year and supported only the objective treatment of the postwar topic itself. The Law on Hidden Cemetery in accordance with International Humanitarian Law, the principles and rules on the handling of the dead reveal the hidden graves, properly identifies them and records them in the Register of War Cemeteries. This same law for the smooth operation of all of the above sets up a commission which, with its 9-member composition on the war itself or the hidden war cemetery, establishes a professionally relevant view. In fact, the commission consists of a historian, an archaeologist, an anthropologist, an expert in the field of cultural heritage protection, a criminalist, two government representatives, one representative of public entities and one representative of NGOs. Next. In the event of the identification of the remains of the deceased, the burial may be carried out in a family grave on the basis of the law adopted at the request of the relatives, and otherwise the burial shall be carried out at a civilian burial site, on a specific memorial park, in order to do so, the constructed morgue and the burial, in that case, shall be provided by the competent ministry. What is even more important for the applicant is that only when the court does not order exhumation, the police and the prosecution assess that there are no grounds for carrying out other urgent investigations, all activities relating to newly discovered graves are carried out by a competent commission. The proposal by the SDS Group does not establish any quality or improved dialogue on any of these levels. Worse still, there is a fear that if the proposal of the SDS Group were to be taken into account, this proposal could block the work of the expert commission in a way that would allow the police to take over an automatic regular criminal procedure. In view of the fact that this is a 70-year-old event, this could in practice simply result in some media spectacle by manipulating the public's feelings. Such political desires, which tend to do so, are not good for the country and are not appropriate. If we really want to come to the truth that we all repeat together all the time, then it is simply necessary to allow the professional commission, of which the criminalist is part, to do its work properly and without burden. It is clear to me that, on the basis of the proposal, the SDS Group is not, of course, able to pursue this topic politically. She proved this by leaving this constructive and quality dialogue to those parties who had already processed this topic in July this year by means of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries. In this way, they have shown that this half-time history can also be established with a quality answer and, in some ideological sense, that there are and there are parliamentary groups in this national assembly that can finally put an end to this issue. In view of all the above, it seems, unfortunately, that the proposal does not appear to be suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u99	Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare Dr Dragan Matić, followed by Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Hello, colleagues! Here we are again, I'd say, man. Ever since our independence, we have this topic on the agenda, but I will focus only on the last year. This is the year in which as individuals we have some influence on what is happening in the National Assembly. A few months ago, we witnessed discussions on the initiative of New Slovenia, which were sincere, and they were, acting convincingly, and they were, and there was some communication in the National Assembly in terms of solving some of the problems that are huge, from the past, but mainly with a serious tendency to stop and move on. Over the past year, we have touched on such topics as archives, postwar killings, resolution on totalitarian regimes, selective lustration. Unfortunately, dear colleagues and colleagues, this time you are not and do not play honestly. I mean, what I'm talking about. Whenever we want to solve one problem, we do not come up with a problem every day at a meeting of the National Assembly, but we talk about it – what New Slovenia has done. Over the past months, we've been talking and looking for a way. We have different views, but you have not done so this time, as you have already done on all your previous initiatives. Therefore, I cannot agree that your intention is truly sincere in saving our past, because you just throw us on the table, introduce us as someone who we show as unworthy, who does not respect differences, which is not true. If we want to change, we need to talk, not just hit the table and demand – what I have a feeling you are doing today. Actually, there's no dialogue here. Either we receive and set our face, and it is yours, or it is none. I can set one face, the other face, but it won't help anything. Today we have four and a half hours dedicated to this subject. We may be four days, four months; but tell me when it will be over. We were social democrats in dialogue with New Slovenia and with others. I took the right back then, and my colleagues allowed me to vote in favour of this initiative and I am not sorry, because it was meant to be true, I am primarily talking about the Law on Hidden War Cemetery and the funeral of the victims that we adopted last July. That was the whole point. Today you are sending your younger colleagues, who are good guys at heart, we are talking about the proposaler Andrej Couch, Jean Mahnič, so that we can generate this relationship to future generations, so that we can somehow connect young people with this desire for separation, but this is not the real policy. We have four to six hours each meeting of the National Assembly dedicated to ideological themes. Okay, let's have them, but let's do a whole series of interviews, and we all know there's nothing to get out of here. We will save ourselves there in offices so that before we come here, we can talk and find solutions, as New Slovenia has already mentioned in the fourth. Why am I mentioning her? Because their way was the right way of dealing with these problems; no matter how we might stay on other shores, it was meant to be honest. But I'm sorry, this time it seems to me that we are only strengthening our base again; I will say that no, you will say that yes, we will have a red star against you, against each other, and we will not save anything. I'm talking about wanting to save – but what? We're just generating a negative attitude towards the Soslovenac, to the solstice, to the sisters. That's what we're doing. That's why I think this intention is dishonest, and I can't support it because it's not reasoned. In the final stage, we did it in a mild, human way a few months ago, and that's the right way to solve it, not just to throw it on the table and demand something. This will not be the way of reconciliation, for there is always something to draw and something to let go. We can't always just expect the others and point fingers. I'm afraid this is a way of mocking all the victims, their descendants and us who are trying to end it. All of us. We, the young, the younger and the older. Those we have been and are still involved in these debates, which are unconstructive. Therefore, I ask you to stop these initiatives, which are of no value. It's not hard to be here for four and a half hours, but if we finish something. But today we know we're not going to finish anything. I regret that beating the empty again is bad. I really lay on my heart, let's be constructive. I expect you to criticize me now, but all I did was say what was on my heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. That's what I have to respond to. Whatever we look at or listen to this debate, I wonder what you have to be like to make it your way. I'm really confused. In the previous 15-minute debate I have had, I have raised many questions and also many arguments, and I have not received a single answer. However, it should also be noted that some of the people today who are attacking this initiative have been solving this sensitive area for a number of years. Look, we still have the same situation today as we did 25 years ago. To quote my colleague Irgel, whom I also deeply respect because of her efforts to reconcile in Slovenia. See, the mass plague that took place in Slovenia left 600 mass seas behind, indicating the tragedy that was – and is still – caused by the Slovenian people. I am also saying that history must be made to an end, but frankly and with action, not with words and with some definitions at the declaration level. No one has talked about the aspect of responsibility for what has happened today and so far. It's a media spectacle. Well, who would make a media spectacle out of this?Oh, my God! These are tragic stories, and the last thing is for someone to do it. But it is true that if we look at the possible case of Germany, people are still responsible for what they were doing during that period of World War II and after World War II. Such a aspect of responsibility with us, of responsibility never anything. It's the same in banks, and I could count it now, but I'm not going to other areas. With us, we can say that it's such a caste of people that no one can hurt her. When was someone responsible for these crimes, human rights violations, murders? Never! Of course, when such an initiative comes, a question and a public debate, we are, of course, torpedoed on all sides. This is happening for 25 years of the National Assembly, all the time the same. Who cares? Who cares? Because, in my opinion, I don't know, I don't think you've been involved in this, but I don't know if you know anyone who's been or has benefited from it is another story. Once again, our purpose is sincere, it points to bureaucratic obstacles, which are causing the proceedings to drag on and they will drag on, as they have been for 25 years. We have drawn attention to the aspect of responsibility and I agree that Slovenia must end its history in order to fully focus on the future. I agree, but let's do something about it, not just talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word to prepare Mrs. Janja Slug. Here you go, Mr. Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished fellow Members! The basic thesis on which the SDS is building its new Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is that there are some obstacles to the existing system, that is, obstacles that prevent effective research into hidden graves and identification of the remains. If I try to simplify it a little bit, it will also make it clear to the general public how it is regulated in this area. The procedure now defined by the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims and the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is as follows. The government commission for the resolution of hidden military graves is composed of experts from the criminal and archaeological profession among its members. The Commission shall immediately inform the police, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of its existence at the beginning of the investigation procedure. If a situation requiring exhumation under criminal proceedings becomes apparent during the site detection process, then the prosecution or investigating judge shall take over the conduct and direction of investigations. According to Article 3 of the current Law on Cultural Heritage, archaeological others also include matters related to graves related to war and extrajudicial executions. Therefore, according to Article 27 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the institution has the possibility to declare the site an archaeological site on the basis of professional criteria or expert judgement until research into archaeological remains is carried out. The latter is very important because the archeological method is extremely important in determining the facts and circumstances of what and how it actually happened decades ago. Digging the site in such a way as to preserve and carefully document an archaeological context is of paramount importance and complements forensic or anthropological procedures. There's no conflict with the latter. The possibility that postmortem remains and their relationship to other objects located on the site be linked to complete information is something that is indispensable in the discovery of hidden graves. Only in this way can the truth be ascertained to the greatest extent possible as to whether, for example, the location of the sea or the cemetery, where the remains were brought from one or more seas. The objects and their layout in the space are often used to determine who were murdered and who were the executioners. All of this is indispensable in enlightening our past so that there will be as little room as possible for speculation and as much for the truth as possible. Now SDS is trying to push its new role of archaeology aside. With the notion of the sea, he wants to replace the notion of archaeological residue. In article 26b of the proposed novel, he would like to state, inter alia, that, I quote, "The burial of the remains may be carried out, whether or not the procedures under the Cultural Heritage Protection Act have been conducted or have not yet begun or have already ended." End of quote. The investigation in this regard aims to reduce the normal criminal investigation, ignoring the fact that it has been at least 70 years since the time of ex-war executions. The sites where the remains of sometimes a very large number of people who have been killed out of court are, because of time, the impact of nature, erosion, deliberate or spontaneous mixing of earth’s layers and so on, much more difficult for research than the location of a place where someone was murdered and buried before a significantly shorter time than 70 years ago. All that I am talking about now was also aware of the SDS or the political option, which has shown the most interest in finding the truth about interwar and postwar extrajudicial executions. Here I have a document from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs entitled Information on the regulation of hidden graves. The date is 6 September 2007, which is the time of Janša's first government. In section 4.2 entitled Research into the locations of registered hidden graves, I quote: "In 2006 the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prescribed methodological baselines for probes and excavations using an archaeological method and an anthropological survey of skeletal sites. This procedure was used in the Breed at Konfin, and in the Lovren Grape in Lescas. The 2005 Bodova crossing showed that the excavation without an archaeological method would significantly impoverish the amount of data that could be obtained on the victims and circumstances of extrajudicial executions." End of quote. If I repeat again: an excavation without an archaeological method will significantly impoverish the amount of data that could be obtained on the victims and circumstances of extrajudicial executions. It is well known who was all the members of this commission who wrote this down and which was set up to solve the issue of hidden graves. They were appointed by the government of John Janša, and it is clear to these people that they had the motive for the truth about extrajudicial killings to come in the right light, not to cover it up. Of course, it was logical, then, that on the basis of their knowledge, the same government of John Janša in February 2008 introduced a provision in the present law, which it itself proposed and also voted in the then Assembly of the State, that all matters relating to the graves of war were archaeological remains. Even those graves created by interwar and postwar extrajudicial executions. The task of archaeology is to provide us with reliable information about events that unfortunately have not been preserved or are incomplete or distorted. Of course, it is unfair not to say cynically that the text of the SDS Novel now states that these archaeological procedures, I quote, are "obstructing the procedure of a dignified burial of victims and the identification of guilt and responsibility for deliberate and mass killings", the end of the quote, or even impeding itself, as stated in the SDS novel, that the then Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, is intended to send the remains of the victims to museum depots because the law stipulates that they are state property. Dear gentlemen! After the end of slavery, man cannot be owned by anyone but himself. Well, colleagues from NSI might say that it is God's because it is his creation, but even human remains are not and cannot be owned by anyone, unless the individual expressly determines in his will that his body or parts of the body are intended for medical use. Since we have civilization, the remains of the dead have been buried by their relatives, either for pieto-religious or emotional reasons. If there are no relatives or deceased relatives or are not known, this is done by the state or local community. In the case of victims of post-war beatings, it is the one who takes care of it, or, in the first place, the government commission. If I finish. It is unacceptable that when SDS is in power, it lays down standards that I believe were right and that they are still right because they will give the right information about this chapter of our history. Then, when he is in the opposition, he proposes a novel that goes in a completely opposite direction; and that in a direction that is not good and that would be a step backwards when adopted with regard to the aspirations of getting the real picture of all the events of 70 and more years ago. In fact, the SDS criticises its own law or itself because, for example, in 2008 they did not define the crime scene and allowed the site to bury the victims of extrajudicial beatings. It would probably be time for them to have a serious discussion among themselves and to clarify the following epochal issues, such as why they did not introduce provisions on criminal proceedings in the Heritage Act and what is more similar to legal-methodological innovation. In fact, just as when the existing archival law was attacked a few days ago — and at that time it was criticized by the archival commission that they had appointed — they are now in line with the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which was their creation and which was then fully regulated in the area we are talking about today, as it should be. I hope it stays that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims was passed in the National Assembly on 9 June this year. A very broad professional debate was held before the adoption. In my opinion, New Slovenia has made a very sincere effort to do so in the right way. Members of the Modern Centre Party have also joined this proposal for these reasons and have participated very constructively in its content. Unfortunately, we cannot claim this to be a proposalr. Contrary to all the other parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, the speaker did not participate in this debate, nor did he abstain from voting. The subject matter that we have on the table today does not fall under the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, either by content or by purpose, as defined in this proposal. The objectives set out by the applicant have already been achieved, right at the time of the adoption of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims, since it is precisely the common application of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims that the proposer sets out here. I do not see in my own way how this proposal, which we are considering today, would help to improve procedures and a decent burial, not in any single point. Moreover, in my view, this proposal aims to circumvent the provisions of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. He wants to set up a procedure differently, not to say, in exactly the opposite of what the Law on Hidden War Cemetery regulates. And one more step, with the notion of the murder and the mass killings, is to reopen an ideological debate in which we will talk again about the slain children, the terrible communists and so on. The law referred to by the applicant seeks reconciliation, seeks reconciliation, tries to achieve a decent burial for those victims who are not identified. The subject of this law, the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries, is also an archaeological method, which the applicant, as has already said today, wants to avoid in this proposal, although I think this method is the only one that can provide us with objective and credible information. If we really want to know what happened, we need archaeology. The deadline, as proposed by the proposer, overwhelms the archaeological rest, even though it is precisely what the proposer, according to his colleague Matić, suggested in 2008. It was the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage adopted by the SDS that defended the view that the archaeological method was good, the only right and that we needed it. Exclusion of the archaeological method is contrary to what they want to achieve in the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries. The applicant also submits that it eliminates the uncertainties that are now taking place in the application of the laws. This proposal, which you are proposing, introduces new uncertainties, a new legal void, new unnecessary complications, as the relationship between this proposal and the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries is not clearly defined. More. If we read carefully the opinion of the Government, it clearly states that even the proposal in Article 26b is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, not just one article, but several articles, so it would not, in fact, continue to be debated. If you have carefully read this opinion of the Government, if you have also carefully read the opinion of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, I do not think we need any further explanations today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The text is by a representative of the applicants, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thanks again for saying that. Now I've been listening to a round of debates. I can thank Mr Matić for his opinion. In some parts, I even agree. But I certainly cannot agree with the part where everything is somehow going to the level of manipulation and how you see SDS, what we are all responsible for in this country. Of course, we have laws, laws change in the country from day to day. This, of course, is seen and experienced by every Member who has been in the National Assembly for more than a few years. However, through the implementation of legislation that is in force, certain shortcomings are also seen or improvements are also seen in the final stage. I believe that forensic research is much more thorough and accurate than archaeological research. However, to also focus on the debate of the Modern Centre Party, when we heard why we did not participate ourselves and did not cooperate with you a few months ago, I hope that your co-operation body will still be present, I look forward to it. Probably some of the other colleagues here from our parliamentary group. I would like to say, however, that we have remained in principle in our Group and have defended the 2004 position. We have always advocated this view, even then in cooperation with Dr. Bayuk. What were the objectives achieved? The MEP of the Modern Centre Party said that the objectives have been achieved. I must say that the paper carries everything, but to this day I have not seen one reality or anyone following the goals and commitments of the existing legislation. We still have 600 seas and nothing's happening. So I really don't know where these goals are, and I really want to know if you can tell me if maybe you've seen or heard about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u109	Mr. Matic, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u110	Mr. Hear, maybe you didn't get me right. It is not that forensic and archaeological methods are in contrast or that are more accurate, which is less accurate. The archeological method is an important complement to the forensic method. The forensic method is focused on the postmortem residue itself. But the archeological context captures the complex context of the entire scene. And this was also the result of a government commission in an opinion I quoted from 2007. I can give you now or at the end of this debate also an expert article by Hugh Tuller, which discusses the experiences that have been shown in the excavation of mass graves, mass killing sites in the Balkans, where it has been found that, in addition to the forensic method, an archaeological method is also necessary to get really credible information on what actually happened, who were the criminals and who were the victims. That's why I think you probably didn't listen to my debate in detail. The forensic method and the archaeological method are not excluded, but the forensic method without an archaeological method does not provide the right answers to the necessary questions that we need to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor to prepare Mr Möderndorfer. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Before anyone gets out of the National Assembly or from these premises, let me just say a few things. Mrs. Servant, you spoke of the government's opinion. Of course, you come from the fact that the government's opinion is correct. You're probably coming from what the government says is, "Daddy Mata," as it's called, it's healthy for sure, it's a fact. But that's not true. If you are ever a Member of two or three terms, you will see that this is not the case. In 2010, I listened to the government's opinion, which was the time that that side was on the other side of the SD, and here in the middle was really the rest of the LDS. And many here in the middle laughed. Today it reminds me of this situation there when you laugh. At the time we listened to the government's opinion, "in the case of the lease of the building of the NPU there was nothing wrong, everything is transparent, everything is clear, everything is loud, everything is legal". All the proceedings were legal, so the Minister did nothing wrong. Well, now I'm reading here: Igor Yuri Pogačar in personal bankruptcy. Why? Because I was very clear at the time about the Minister's corruption, but the government said that she did not act corruptly. So the government's opinions can also be completely flawed. And the government's opinion, at the time, was President Borut Pahor, was completely mistaken. But this corruption would continue today if I did not terminate the contract in 2013. For the introduction, I'll say. Otherwise, let me put it this way. When we talk about the topic we are talking about today, we usually go straight to an ideological field: left, right, black, white, partisan, patriotic, and so on. So let me start by saying that my parents had a partisan pension, so we're pretty clear that no one's gonna put me in a drawer. And that my father was in the 14th Division for a short time. So you know how to include me. Then I judge by that logic on that side, not that side. But I'm judging this side because I know, I'm going to say, some things in history I'm also going to look at with some distance. I therefore agree with this point that we are on the clear side and with some critical attitude towards this history. And I'm not ready to defend some history that's criminal history. That's why I belong here, not on the other side. By the way, I listened to Mrs Bachičeva, in front of her Mr Kovačičeva, and I listened very carefully to both of them. With Mrs Violeta Tomić, I kept my TV button down, because I can't stand the hate speech she's giving between Slovenians. I can't stand this hate speech. I expected someone to warn her from this pay phone. It wasn't you, I know, but no one warned her. That's when I went to Google looking for her monodrama called the whore. This is the title of the monodrama that she played beautifully. I wanted to look at it and listen to all the juicy curses she said there to make more use of the time. But I didn't find it. I only found those other roles of her, the one – what was it? He's the weakest member. That's all I found. But I remind you of all the hate speech that always comes out of her and her performance. When I spoke two days ago about how Slovenian citizens are hindered by the press or the media calling them activists, they are Slovenian citizens, who, A, physically attack the police, interfere with the police and more. And I said that the best thing to do is to take action against them, even if one falls into Sotlo, but that was the hate speech that gave Anja Bah Žibert the warning. After that, the president of the National Assembly apologized. You see, this lady is allowed to say everything. But everything is allowed. I don't accept that. Otherwise, Mrs Bachičeva as well as Kovacicova, I hope that Mrs Bachič will come to the hall, asking the following questions. I just have a question for you. I just have a question if you can explain something to me. I also like to ask questions as a lecturer in college. And I'm very happy with the good answers. Here's a question for these ladies. Why are you three thousand people in Barbara Row and a few more tens of thousands in the Cavern, and I don't know where we still have them, which we haven't opened yet, doesn't deserve a grave? Why? Why are you and my parents deserve a grave? The grave is a civil act. We as humans separate from animals. After what? We can think and physically bury our dead. Why don't you agree to the funeral of our dead? Why don't you just let them go and do nothing to dig them up? Why are 800 still in the pubs in Barbara Rowe today? I was there. And the media is reporting, that's what the bones are. These aren't bones at all. These are mummified remains of human bodies. Even with the face, including the eyes that look at you, ladies and gentlemen. Go look at them! Tell me why they don't deserve a grave. If you can answer that, I don't know, but maybe I'll change my mind. Why do you enforce animal laws and animal principles over innocently murdered people? Animals don't bury their dead. And here and there you'll find a dog with some young man who's crying. Ladies and gentlemen, why not? Please, with a word per day, not in the ground. Let's move on. Why do Germans today persecute their own citizens for 95 years? Because they were, I don't know, they were recording some records there. The administrators were in these concentration camps. Administrators. Today, like 95 years old people stand before the courts. Explain to me why there was no one in Slovenia alone? At the door of the courts came one of the worst, this is Mitja Ribičič, and the proceedings were completed. How is it possible that the cameras show a man we could have seen a few months ago who was supposed to be present at the murder of the Hrybars from the town of Strmol, and the journalist asks him and says, "Do you know anything about this?" And he said, "No, I don't know." Then they ask him, "Do you know who did this?" And he said, "Oh, it doesn't matter who did it." It means he knows who did it. Did he get a visit from some criminal? Did the D.A. write down any instructions for the police to go and question him? No, no, no. So what are we different from the Germans? Tell me. Why are the Germans after their own people who killed, killed, whatever you want, in camps, actually foreigners and not Germans, and persecuted today, but not us? So why do we still have over tens of thousands of dead in Slovenia, which you haven't even dug up? Why? Tell me another European country that has this. Why don't they have a grave after 25 years of independence? Today, we introduce some graves for animals, and when anyone wants to serve on this account, such activity is involved. And we are not as a nation capable of burying our own. I don't know who's here. I imagine, I'll say, but I'm just imagining the situation in Bovec. Those of you in the Bovec know exactly what the Italians did after World War I. They took all the bones, wherever they were, and put them in the tomb, which stands in Bovec today. As I know, the Italians are still financing this or not, because it doesn't matter. Why do we have a cemetery of Austrian soldiers in the immediate vicinity of the Bovec? And we still haven't been able to bury our own. A while ago, I was in an Italian town in Doberdob, briefly speaking, and you have as many Italian soldiers as you have Austrian soldiers at another cemetery. We also have this situation very clearly in Normandy, and in 1949 and 1956 they took care of their dead on foreign soil. And we on our own land are not capable of taking care of our own dead. Now it's quiet and it's all looking down. Answer that question a little later. This isn't about violence, Mr. Horvat. Above all, explain the phenomenon of why no one came before a judge. The leprechaun has listed a whole series of them that have been in Barbara Row, and now it's quite a few dead. No one got in front of a judge. Nobody. It's an ideological battle. Can a dead man be an ideological battle? Where can a dead man be an ideological battle? So let's think about what you're saying. We may disagree, I don't know, with Mr German we may disagree on a subject. He's got that opinion, I have it. He's left-handed, I've got the opposite. All right – so what? But we probably see the grave or the bones as some kind of fact, probably. At least I think so. And it can't be an ideological battle. Where did the ideological paint come from? Let's stop reading reminders written by professional colleagues. Yes, please, this has to be stopped once. All these people were not to be talked about for 45 years. I can explain my own case. I'm a long way from II. World War I was born — do you think I knew about the Tehars? Who told me that? You shouldn't have talked about that. Not even in 1985 when I came across one of these situations in a close relationship. Then, after my wedding, those close relatives of mine were not ready to talk about it because it was not to be discussed — in 1985. Then what followed? In 1990 something happened, and in the corner of Kočev, the supposed right ceremony, at least some of you think it was. Well, then there was a denial period, because it didn't happen, something small happened, and the rest was gone. There was nothing wrong with that. There was something really wrong here in the corner of Kočev, and something was supposed to be wrong in Tehar, but in general it's not that. It's called a denial period. Then Barbara comes out, and everyone else, Maribor, Škofja Lok, and so on, we haven't even talked about the Pecovnik, how much bigger it is, supposedly bigger than Barbara's, and there's still a mine trench over there. We still haven't said much about the Oakman. Now that we can't deny it anymore, now we have an apology. Do you have any idea what the Secretary of Defense said? That inspiration for the future should be sought from 1945 onward. So you have to look for inspiration for the future in murder. So in murder, let's look for inspiration for the future. God help! If I said something like that, I'd apologize and go into political oblivion that no one would ever see me again. That's impossible. In short, now he apologizes for what happened. And that's what you do. One more thing, Mr. Matić. It's interesting, but now we're talking about the archival commission. But the archiving commission has nothing to do with this kind of story. Yeah, you mentioned her. The archiving commission led by Mrs Zverov has nothing to do with this. But that's obvious to you – because I told you last time – a life-saving plant that you're breathing through. What's the difference? Now, look, all those, Mr Tabakovic spoke and Mrs Slug, but I don't know who else spoke, about the law of NSA and about what you accepted magnificently. I did not support this matter – Mrs Novakova is not here right now – but I will say so. If, within one year of the adoption of this law, something significantly different, I will change my mind and say that I was wrong. But I know that it is already more or less clear today that one year after this law there will be nothing new. I'm sure of it. Do you think we'll have more buried? Even the promise made by the President of the State to dig up Barbararov by the end of the year, as I have seen in the media, not personally, I have no feeling that it will be realized, because we have only three months to go. Now to the secretary. Secretary of State, I'm asking you to convey this part to her, I'm really asking you to convey this part to her. Or have them make you a magnetogram. Look, I'm 28. 3. 2010 met the Minister, in a famous place, in Kamnik, at a funeral. And I was very surprised to see the lady there. She came to the funeral of Frances Tomšič. At that time, I thought – it was a period when the lady was moving from SD to Desus, and I thought it was her act of being a person, an act of a broad-minded woman who is able to look wide into a situation that is not narrowly client-blind, I will say, but she is capable of doing more. And look what happened. As soon as it came out that she was supposed to become a cultural minister, a revolution between culturers, you know, right. Well, then she became a cultural minister, and now the revolution is gone. But why am I talking about this? I simply say because I wanted to ask her the following: what has the Ministry done in this area under its leadership and yours, the Secretary of State? Apart from supporting the NSI law, you changed a few commas, okay, wrote a positive opinion – can you tell me if you have done anything else in this area? And I know of an act that is not in your honor. One of the most fruitful writers of books is Roman Leljak. So say anything about him, I don't care. As far as his problems with the judiciary are concerned, the story is over, we have no right to mention it, he served his time. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1988 – he even reminded me of this, I was working in Celje at the time – knocking on Barbara's trench and walking around with a scratch if I could find anything. So it's about a man who has a relationship with all these acts. It's about a man who's done a lot of things in this area. Secretary of State and Minister, why did you come after him? Why did you come after him?Oh, my God! The Ministry of Culture paid him, as you know, those contributions for the independent cultural worker, those "ficks," because you know how much it is. Very little. You took that away from him today. That's a good act, Mr. Matić, isn't it, I see you're laughing. Look, you took that from him today. Why? Because it reveals these crimes that have happened. And there is a charge against him, which is a secret, secret charge, because he spoke something on the committee of Mrs Eve Irgle on this subject that I am not extending to anything else. And you've gone into depriving yourself of the status of an independent cultural worker. The result — what? The result is that he will not have access to the archives, and the result is two malnourished children who will become hungry. Well, if you give him back that money and that status, I'll be very happy – well, you're nodding. But if you find a secretary of state, an explanation for why you did it, in law, and I'll say to you, "That's legal, but it's not moral." In 1989, 1990, there were mass rallies in Slovenia – I am talking about these before the independence – about detention of Janša, Tasić, Zavrla. Excuse me, Secretary of State, then Commander of the Slovenian Police, then the head of the Ljubljana Police had all the legal reasons. If you're looking for any legal reasons why you did this to him, Leljak, then I can tell you that the then commander, the head of the Ljubljana police, Paula Steel, had all the legitimate reasons to use force against all those in Roška and everywhere. But you know what he said? "Yes, indeed, these assemblies are illegal, but they are legitimate." So he placed a limit or a right bait — what? Legality, however, is legitimate. And he said, "I will not act according to the law, I will act according to the will of the Slovenian nation." That's what he said. I'm sure because I was walking around Europe in that year 1991, by the police in Europe, and they said, "How many cops have you locked up, how many have you fired? When I explained this, this is legitimacy and justice, that is, the legality and legitimacy of the police, regardless of the law, the justice and the will of the people, and that is why we did not forgive anyone. The Secretary of State, if the Minister finds legal grounds for her decision, of course she will find them. But tell her she doesn't have moral and legitimate rights. But she has no moral or legitimate rights to do so. But it is not only this question that we do so at this point, it is a general question, ladies and gentlemen. Someone used to say, "Yeah, and when we stop doing that, let's keep looking at when we're gonna stop doing that." Ladies and gentlemen, the dog stops by the dead dog. Are we able to stop at our dead and bury them? Above all, this is more a question for young people, not for older ones who read what someone writes to you from the pages. This issue is specifically addressed to young people. Will we ever stop this matter, do nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, but what are the other nations, because we cannot hang them on the first tree? I'm not even into sending someone to jail when they're 90 years old, that's out of the question. But the judgment must be rendered. Legal judgment in court and political judgment in the National Assembly. But we know what political judgment looks like. In 1996, Mr German, your predecessor, I think the party, then a slightly different name, adopted a document, a resolution, I don't know what, on this subject, you condemn everything that was before, to distance yourself, to have nothing to do with it. I can clap. It just needs to be done after 20 years. But it's not done yet! And I don't prescribe any SD guilt. Far from it. Today, SD is relatively small in the National Assembly. But everything else! You see, a coalition is made immediately. Now everything is in coalition – everything here from this kind forward to the United Left is now a coalition. And that's why it's a problem because an ideological coalition is made. And that's an ideological coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, you can refuse, because you will. You can find a thousand reasons why you won't. No problem. There's no problem with that. See, in this same hall from 1945 to 1990, there was no need to talk about it at all. Since 1990, it has been denied that something was wrong. But today he apologizes. It's just a worse grade, you know. Apologize to crime is a worse step than keeping quiet so you can't talk about it. Today you're confessing to a crime, but you're looking for reasons to excuse it. And that's in a way, excuse me, at least the younger be aware of it, worse and worse than what happened in 1946-1991. Because you apologize for what happened. And that's extremely bad. I'll be very happy with what kind of answers, what replicas, what kind of content, not the ones who charge, as they call it. Above all, I will also be pleased with the answer, either to the Minister or to the Secretary of State. I will also give some technical opportunity to answer with any question or any other question. But Secretary of State, maybe you're on the legal side, but you're not on the right side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I have to admit, it's a really interesting debate if someone claims to me on the other hand that someone here is justifying the killings. I haven't heard any of that before. Did anyone say that? None. So it's again some new idea of imposing something that he didn't really tell us, but he was telling these cameras, which is actually a habit. Well, what's more important about the whole thing and the proposal itself is something. When we passed a law on a decent burial here in July, I was already on the committee, and in the debate, I warned that there was no agreement that there would be no reconciliation, that it would only take a few months, and we would get a new portion. And we have it. Today is September, only the holidays are over and here it is, we have something else. But you know what a paradox is. The paradox is that at the time they declared in the SDS. that they will not oppose the proposal, that is a fact, but they will not support it. They said, "A civilized nation does not need a law to bury its dead, but it does so because it commands its conscience, and the proposal in terms of ensuring a decent burial is unnecessary." So why in God's name do they come with a new marriage if they've been against it for three months? I don't understand any more. Of course it's the answer to your hand. If you will, of course, read your head of the party who declares democracy and the next sentence, and here is the answer to all this. He says that the condition of reconciliation is a free path for the truth about the past, and it is not without the fall of a false myth about the NOB. And we are where Mr Gorenak says that this is a floscule, that there is no ideology, that there is nothing, etc. I'm sorry, I don't have one. I'll do it again. I don't even have anyone to apologize to because I didn't do anything. And even less, I see no reason why we are now looking at the third ministry with this law, which will deal with the same things that the two ministries are already dealing with. One is for the economy, the other is the Ministry of Labour, and now we'll find the third. That's rude! You know, and it's called different. As I see these things, you walk across the bones and tombs with so-called, called, partitioning the nation with such a soft civil war that you hold as a crane to keep you warm. For one reason: stay on your battle line. That's your story in the package. Because everything you're suggesting can be done today. And this young fellow Member, as the motioner who is demonstrating here today with this proposal, knows this very well. And you all know it. We can do all of this today. The question is what I have already pointed out in the initial proposal of New Slovenia, which is that this will certainly never happen in one year. Never. There's no money in the budget for that! The next two budgets provide half a million for decent burials, 700,000 for the implementation of the programme. I'm sorry, I don't know how the former Minister of the Interior can propose additional burdens, because he knows very well how the police really don't have any money for doing their job right now. Let me finish. What matters to me in this proposal is, of course, I will not support it because it is a fiasco, but we can expect in four or five months a new variety to be prepared again, with some new explanation that we will be dealing with here again. The fact is, the dead have only one common feature. It's that they're dead. But you don't want to admit it yet, and you don't want to give them peace. And that's your fundamental problem. Not just like that, of course, you're not crazy, because of ideological battles and because of your own benefit, that you're going to keep busy and exist on some wave where you're going to grow and build on people's feelings. I can't do this with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I don't know where you've been, but I was just talking about it, you said it was an ideological fight again. It's not, I repeat, for no ideological struggle, because an ideological struggle is something else. However, I do not know if Mr Möderndorfer is still doing an admission exam for SMC entry today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposer, Mr Andrej Chuš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I'll be very short this time. I would like to say that this is not even some new law that would reintroduce some systemic arrangements, as most here probably imagine, if you only read the government's opinion, it is understandable, but only corrects the existing state. Why should we need financial resources, but if, see, we should have on paper working authorities that are supposed to ensure the functioning of the rule of law, I have said this before. But it's a matter of priority. We must be aware here that we have one of the most expensive justice systems in Europe in terms of the number of inhabitants. This justice also violates human rights and is ineffective. It is also a shame, however, I would like to listen to my colleague Möderndorfer, perhaps it would not be bad if he had crossed the page into the Modern Centre to have more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Some of the debates were also very, very harsh and totally out of line with some of the standards in the National Assembly. I regret to say that as President, you did not react or remind anyone. So I hope that the debate will continue to be a little wider and even slightly different. What I have taken up with a procedural proposal is that I should ask that the representative of the Government, in these discussions of our Members, of the coalition Members, at least one of the unrelated Members, try to respond to this issue. This is now the fifteenth case in the last month when the government ordered time, but the government representative did not say a word at the time of the debate. Please, the themes are opening up, from ideological emphasis to substantive emphasis, and the government, if it is a government, must have a position in such discussions. He has time and representatives in the National Assembly. Given that Mr State Secretary is a representative of the cultural sphere, a member of the PEN, and I do not know what else, I would expect him to know these questions, which also concern ethics, which also concern morality, which concerns the human code that concerns, I do not know what we call it, the fifth to the dead, so that he can respond to this and explain a little and perhaps point things in the debate. The Minister spent three hours here and left, now replaced by the Secretary of State, who shows no will to say anything. So, Mr President, I suggest you address my initiative to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Persak himself will assess when he thinks he can or must call. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much. As an architect, I have been working for more than 20 years on projects that touched cultural heritage, and I think I can tell about a reminder of what all belong to cultural heritage. This can be a building heritage, an archaeological heritage, an heritage as a cultural landscape, a movable heritage and collections, a national wealth and a intangible heritage — including knowledge and skills, tricks and habits, beliefs and values that we share with present and future generations. Even if we failed in the cultural discourse and fell into a fraternity during and after the Second World War, because it is not possible to be classified as a material category, that is, among the skills, tricks and practices, beliefs and values, we must still be aware of the following. There are many cultural heritage gems in Slovenia that are not yet sufficiently protected or explored, but are not properly reconstructed and adapted to the needs of the current time and current users. The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, of course, needs changes and additions, but those that would allow it to be more operational in protecting and revitalising cultural monuments. Due to the beauty and art that have emerged on the ground of Slovenia over the years and are under the jurisdiction of this law, I appeal to all Members and Members to ensure the integrity of its powers and not to allow its abuse to re-examine the outcome of World War II and to deny national liberation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Now we've got some log-outs. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word, please. Get Mr. Roberto Battelli ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I think we always have a problem in the National Assembly when the debate on the roost opens. Always. And every time this debate about pieta opens, those who are more left-handed are talking about the ideaological topic. Which is kind of interesting. No matter what your education is, no matter what your education profile is, no matter what. Whenever a debate is opened about digging up during the war or after the war killed, you are talking about an ideological topic. That's symptomatic. Now all I'm asking is, what does this have to do with the actual state of affairs? The 17 - year - old was kidnapped, murdered, and buried under a spruce or thrown into a hole — what does this have to do with ideology? Here we ask ourselves whether this country prevails, politics, and others have suffered so much pain, that until the unfortunate human body of a minor they do not behave as you do, but behave in a pathetic, respectful manner, and do all they can to dig up this unfortunate creature and bury it in a holy land. On Sunday, you had the opportunity to see an exhumation of such a person in my congregation or in the neighboring congregation, Kržeta nad Sodražica, when the brother of the deceased, who is over 80 years old and is an industrialist in Argentina, paid for the excavation of his underage brother. I think it was on TV 1 at the Diary. Now we may wonder how many others have been killed, but they are not fortunate enough to have a rich brother abroad to pay for this excavation, this exhumation, and to bury our dead fellow citizens in the cemetery. What it takes to make a political spectacle out of such a story. This isn't about some crowd that's being pulled out of the street and there's some things going on that's getting out of control. This is a debate of perfectly reasonable people, educated people, people who have nothing to do with this event, but interestingly enough that they also feel nothing about this event. The fact that a person was killed, 17 years old, and was given, I don't know, a severe head injury, not just a bullet, but something else, it doesn't seem to move in this part of the political space to anyone. I wonder what they'd do if it was your brother. Would you like to talk about an ideological subject? To be your son, for example, would you say that's an ideological topic? I'm talking about the people who did this to them. Some parents are still alive, some brothers are still alive, some are still alive, some are still alive, and we are talking about whether this country is capable of doing what it can to provide these people with a decent burial of their dead, after an innocent death, not being convicted, not committing any crime, not committing any ideological offence, because if it did, it would be condemned, but it was a typical inquisitorial act. Typical inquisition. Those who advocate such an inquisition during or after the war say that we are opening up ideological themes. Sir, who is a cultural writer, a member of the World Pen Club, could probably explain whether it is a civil debate, a civil action to dig up and bury the deceased and dig into a place where we usually bury people in Slovenia, whether it is an ideological question. Who has the courage to talk about an ideological question? It is those who do not have any relationship, not to youth, not to age, not to human life. Mr German also spoke about the ideological issue. I want to know what you and Tonin did last November when they went to lay their wreaths on each other's graves. What was that story? Was that an ideological question? Was that an ethical question? Did you start a settlement? There's no one in here today when we're talking about this topic. What action was it? Was it just a cheap populism, that it was some sort of thing? It was probably mainly populism, looking for soy cameras, to show up on TV, but no more steps from there. If Mr German had a sincere intention to do something in this area, he cannot have the debate he had in the National Assembly. If we want to do something for people who have tragically ended up unhappyly, then let's do what we have to do, what they're doing in Srebrenica. I ask all those representatives who like to talk about Srebrenica and these things and participate in these memorials – why don't you support such memorials at our home in Slovenia, in the National Assembly? Even with us, if we were sincere in our intentions, we could take time once a year, set a date, and all those who would have been identified, buried either in a common cemetery or in a cemetery, where we could define relatives and have their wish to bury these people. Why don't we do it? What reservations do you have for those of you who would say this question is so disturbing? It's a simple human question. And when some get up, start talking about this subject, they can't even talk, they read, they prepare an elaborate, and they're professors, with a doctorate in the field they're talking about, and they're all stuck in the face. Why is that necessary? In particular, there is a need to be a great deal of respect in these discussions. And respect for people who have done nothing and have come to a tragic end. It wasn't about individuals, it was about a bunch of people. There are at least four locations in Slovenia, respected colleagues significantly larger than Srebrenica. Significantly larger than Srebrenica. I ask you, because obviously in Bosnia it is possible, although in some ways we say that there are a few people there who are not so far-reaching, who have a slightly different relation to what kind of things, there are capable of doing this ethical act and each year, every day with some memorial to bury the victims that happened there. With us, this is obviously the most blasphemous act you can do if you suggest that you give some initiative to do so. We are the most hated and most angry to experience those who propose or improve the law or some new solution in the area of a decent burial and a dignified reputation from people who are there in some pits, which are surrounded by bats and God knows which animals are to be buried and worthy of them to determine a place where they can light a candle. That this was an ideological issue at times, there are examples of what happened to those who went to such cemeteries, and they eventually set up a cross or performed a church ritual, whether it was Catholic faith or candlelight. Even today, records of those who were punished for doing so are in the archives. But whether it be consecrated persons, that is, priests, or relatives of those who were killed there. The fact that this is a problem in this country and some unsettling approach suggests that you've all applauded the adoption of the law. When something concrete needs to be done on the basis of the previous and this law, which was passed months ago when the source has to be given and actions launched, the matter has stopped. The shift of powers from the Ministry to the Ministry does not show any good intentions of doing anything to this area in order to take a step forward. This policy, this coalition does not show absolutely no good intentions. This has now moved to the Ministry of Economy, as if this is a key project in terms of economic growth. We could leave it where it was, give money to make it happen and make it happen. On 20 August, I addressed the Government with an initiative to dig up people from my congregation who had been abducted by the partisan unit while they were preparing trees in the forest. This happened on July 28, 1942, and that was when seven people, seven farmers, made wood in the forest. They took them to a pit called the Castel, and shot them there, and cast them into the abyss. To date, these people have not been exhumed, they have not been dug up. And since you're all talking so much about how you're going to solve this problem and how you're going to do it, I expected the government to at least answer me in time. On 20 September, the deadline for responding to this initiative expired and I have not yet received an answer. This is probably not such a difficult question or such a difficult initiative that the Government needs more than a business time to answer. That's one of the cases. I counted one, that's the other. There are graves around us where the abducted victims ended up in one way or another, something else, much from the war and postwar period. Given that we have all identified where these graves are, I would expect something serious to happen in this area. In addition to doing something about this archaeological profession, I would expect them to do something else in this area. The very discovery of archaeological criteria is but one part of this story can. But the second part is, as far as analysis is concerned, what happened, how it happened, what kind of death it was, it was a shooting, it was torture, it was a decapitation, and so on. Especially since many of these cases are known other facts – let's say in this particular case, Žiglovice is talking about Partisan commander Venišnik, who is from other places, there are no hosts – other procedures could also be carried out. If they can find someone who killed someone and dumped them in a well after two years, arrest him, and, on the basis of similar facts, convict him, say, they've come to the body, found the cause of death, after two, three years, carried out the procedure, and convicted the perpetrator, they could do exactly the same in this case. In no way did this case depart from the one who had been liquidated, and he was thrown into a well, and he was burned with a little conscience and told and announced, discovered, and condemned. I don't know why a special law, a special procedure, is needed here, why it is necessary in this case to debate whether we are going to ideologies, whether we are going to politicise ourselves or not, and we are the main problem that we are proposing that this area be regulated. That should've been settled a long time ago. I don't know how Mr Matić would feel if his son were a cultural monument there in a pit. It's not a cultural monument. Even if my son were this, it wouldn't be a cultural monument and it wouldn't be a cultural heritage. This is a body waiting for procedures to be carried out and a civil procedure to be carried out in order to bury and regulate the matter. In this debate, many have also been involved with other things. Also about the archives. It's true. The archives are also an integral part of these things that we are talking about today. There's archives, too. Once the archives have been largely destroyed, the archives are further closed and blocked when they are anonymised and the identification procedures are also prevented by amending the law in an important part. The reference to a committee run by Mrs Valič is perverse. With Mrs Valič, the only question is whether she works by law or does not work by law. If she works in these procedures by law, then you have nothing to read her, and they are products like we showed last time in the debate on changing the archival law. Just like that, anonymous blanks. However, if Mrs Valič does not act by law, you are obliged to replace her to act by law. If you who are experts in the archival profession have identified all these errors, then you must also draw these decisions, regardless of whether they are a member of our client or your client or any other client. Now it's just a question of whether he's working under the law. And if you work by law and get out a product like the one shown by your colleague Irgle, then the law is as we said – nothing. You better go to the Youth Book and buy a thousand sheets that are completely empty. It's exactly the same. You don't need a commission, you don't need two archives, you don't need Mr. Matic to teach these things. That's a fact. And once again, if Mrs Valic doesn't work by law, then it has to be arranged. And I would like to draw attention to something else in this debate. You all say that our proposals are not reasoned. The maximum effort is what you use in this debate to share the paragraphs of the government opinion and then read each part of the argument and write three introductory two final sentences on it. The debate about the decent burial of our fellow citizens who ended up unhappy, without a conviction that was carried away from relatives who were separated from their families, some parents took their children and executed them or vice versa, depending on what the situation was. I think we need to look at these things from this point of view as well. And above all, I am referring to coalition, government, culture – as regards the issue of the government's position, the cultural basis is crucial in this issue, because it is an ethical issue, it is a relationship to life, a relationship to death, to try in some way in the government and coalition to direct such things in a decent way. There's no need for any accounting here. Before you do anything about a monument in this area, where you have chosen a location, you would first settle these matters with regard to the excavations that many people are still looking forward to. We would like to know where their relatives were killed, where they were destroyed, how they were destroyed, and, above all, we would like them, as I or probably you, buried them in their family grave. Those who do not want to do so, who prevent the relatives of these unfortunates who have been killed from doing so, who have arranged it, who have done it, who have a similar relationship with them. At least I expect you don't have double standards. If you don't allow my neighbor, our fellow Americans to bury their brothers, sisters, parents, children in the right way, yours will probably be lying on the side of the road, and we'll either drive by or throw rocks into those pits where they'll be. From this point of view, we need to take a look at this debate and do everything we can to do once, in a truly dignified way, to end this and do what we should have done a long time ago. In fact, what we are talking about today should never have happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor, and a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer are next.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, because we want the chapter on postwar killing and post-mortem remains to be definitively resolved, in a dignified and pathetic manner, and in particular in a just manner. And certainly, if we come from these three definitions, it is true of dignity, pietae and justice, we cannot possibly talk about ideology or even worse, about any demagogy. This is only a question of ethics and civilisational standards, and demagogy is, I will say, a more instigation by the coalition Members of the SDS constantly to show some kind of show in these topics. As a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we can say that we are always very responsible and, in particular, in principle. This is what we did in 2003, when we obstructed the vote because the matter was not resolved in the right way when we voted on the War Cemetery Act, which, by the way, was introduced into the National Assembly in 1998, and was first established and revived in 2003. True, we have several laws covering the area of this postwar sea and the arrangements of the seas or cemeteries. We have laws that give us too much red tape in this area, but above all we have a lot within the laws of these conceptually incorrect definitions. This is where I'm talking about, in particular, the equivalent of a seaport to a cemetery. Until we are able to take this step forward in this sociopolitical space, we will make a clear distinction between what this is and what this cemetery is, then, respected colleagues and colleagues, we act unethically and inhumanely. We owe the victims of the post-war beatings, who were exterminated, were liquidated in various difficult, horrifying ways, I have already said, since they were killed with the Krampa, that they died in severe torments, such as those imprisoned in the Hudo Cave, buried alive, the vast majority of the victims of the Huda Cave were buried alive, saying that until we were able to provide these people with all the dignity and rehabilitation together in procedures, then we did nothing. By shutting down the archive material, which my colleague Tanko mentioned earlier, you're causing a very reverse process. Instead of going to a better future, we are always returning to the past. We return to the past because at all costs you protect what has been done in the past period, protect what has been bloody in our history. And that's the problem. And that's why we're not moving forward. As a result, we also have great problems in economic and other areas. We have to put things in place first. We are therefore obliged to ensure the dignity of both the victims of revolutionary violence and their relatives. And how can we ensure dignity for these victims? But by simply writing where they were killed, whether it's a war grave or by digging them up, doing exhumation procedures, identifying them accurately, and then figuring out why someone was killed? Of course, the prosecution and the criminal police are needed here. What's our prosecution doing? When, through a criminal act of reconciliation led by Mr Jamnik at the time as a criminalist, it was found that irrefutable evidence showing at least some of the names of those who participated in the killing after 1945 was simply rejected by the prosecution. There's no evidence of that. But we're dealing with Indian judgments and so on. However, where the evidence was clear and where at least one name was known, Major Mitja, in the end it also showed who it was, and the evidence was simply discarded because all systems and subsystems still control the heirs of this totalitarian blood regime. And you, which, at least for the SMC, I have thought so far, will be different in their policy, so they have also been elected to these places to be different, I thought that in this case, in these cases, they would act differently and that when we talk about the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, they would act not only ethically but also on their conscience. However, if the conscience is such that it protects these individuals and privileges, then we are seriously confused about value systems. But now let us see what are the key directions of this law and why we wanted to go into changes to the Law on Cultural Heritage. First of all, to all those who have long and wide explained that this does not have to be arranged within different laws — that is not true. We have a cultural protection regime that is clear within the War Cemetery Act and in the building of the law, which was presented here by Nova Slovenije a long time ago and was confirmed in the National Assembly. It is now so that until this work, when the family takes over the remains, the remains are defined as an archaeological remnant, it is said that this falls under the regime of cultural protection. What do we want to do? We want to set up a special regime for the archaeological rest, a regime with which we will simplify the procedures most effectively, the fastest way to finally get to a decent burial. As has already been said, in a just, pathetic and dignified manner. This means, for the first time, not obstructing the procedures of a decent burial, it means not further complications, not bureaucracy. But just by having different legislation covering this, when we move laws from one ministry to another, at least under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is essentially also insatiable if you want. Also unpeterable. This has always covered the area of social affairs, which is the only right thing, is fundamental human rights. But since you're moving this, you don't really have a relationship to these issues because you don't have a relationship to these issues, you can also move this from one ministry to another ministry, it happens to us – what? That we have all too much bureaucracy in this area and that is why we cannot ensure fast and effective exhumation procedures. That is why we want some changes, in which I personally believe that they are true and that they are fair to all those who have suffered for years — to all those who have the people in the pits, in the trenches, and so on. And it's only right that we end this story once. But not in a way that doesn't restore their dignity. But who are we that we can do this in a way that does not restore their dignity, but if it is their basic desire, which screams from all those pits that have been hidden for years, it is covered up because it is not to be talked about. Let us ask ourselves, each of you, among us — can we do this voluntarily? On our own, we will not allow them consciously to rehabilitate themselves, that they are still ideologically marked by these victims, that we will not allow them to regain their dignity. I don't think we're the right address for that. However, we need to arrange this in a way that makes it possible for the explorers to know that we had a valuable system that respected dignity and justice. That is why we are obliged to amend the legislation in this way. Secondly, regardless of the Cultural Heritage Act, this victim is treated in the same way as the other victims. So, according to the principles of criminal procedure. It is right for each of these victims to know how she died. This is a prerequisite that we can all breathe into a better future together. For there are many living men who have these kinsmen in these pits. Maybe that's the key point before they die. And we deny it to them. This isn't about any demagology or ideology. It is, as we say, a purely basic civilisational standard. All the nations have done it. Thirdly, a decent burial is carried out irrespective of the procedures relating to cultural heritage. It's because the procedures have been going on too long, that's a fact. Fourthly, to do what I have already said, a clear distinction between what is the sea and what is the grave. Until we do so, once again, we act unethically and act humanely. Fifthly, it begins to determine responsibility for those victims who are the result of crimes. So, the D.A. and the police have to run procedures. I have already discussed the European Parliament's resolution on how 93-year-old Oscar Gröning, one of the guards in Auschwitz, was brought before the court. And he was convicted. Colleagues and colleagues, these are acts that are not obsolete, not by Slovenian law, not by international law, not by conventions, not by declarations. Murder, murder, destruction after the war, already in a peaceful time, of course, it is crucial, essential, it is an act that never aged. This is not about revenge, but it is about knowing how to defend ourselves or what kind of value system we have left for our explorers. If we're going to say that crime is not a crime, what kind of value system are we going to leave to our explorers? However, if we are to make it clear that crime is a crime and that a criminal must be punished for it, then perhaps such things will not happen to us again. Remember Srebrenica. Do you imagine that you would act in such a way as to say that this was not a crime? Or would they simply put up a cemetery where these victims were killed without digging them into a grave they deserved? When you decide these issues today when you decide whether you will vote "yes" or "against" today, keep in mind that terrible things have been going on a short time ago and that perhaps if you give them timely warning, that is, events after World War II, if it were not to be hidden and hidden, maybe Srebrenica would not even come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Peršak, Secretary of State, has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you. Dear Members and Members! Given that it was particularly desirable for me to say something on the subject of today's proposal, I would first say that you probably do not expect and there is no point in repeating the opinion which has been presented and submitted in writing. That's why I won't do it. However, I will answer some questions that have been asked explicitly or at least in the subtext. But first, there's something I'd like to say. Lawmakers probably know that one of the eminent intellectuals considered to be a Catholic intellectual, Dr. Capuder, publicly declared some very significant truth. In particular, he said that there is almost no nation in Europe that does not have the same or similar experience as the Slovenians have with this split and killing each other. What is different is that the vast majority or almost all other nations knew it in some way to overcome it, to make peace with it, and not to deal with the past. If you look at the French and their experience of killing the Huguenots, if you look at the Germans who had a multi-year war with each other, they all kind of knew that after a certain period of time, they could be scientifically valued, but not used as the object of some actual conflict. You are aware that even France has made such an attempt in the Valley of Heroes and has in some way carried out this act before his time has actually ended. Since it has been exposed, Mr President, I hope that you will allow me three, four sentences, because I have been addressed in a personal way. First of all, I would like to say that it is clear, as probably the vast majority of Slovenians do, that I think that it is necessary to ensure that all remains or bodies found are properly buried and that these cemeteries, burial sites, are properly marked. What I think I have to say about this is something that's always been said about it, and I believe that the vast majority of people didn't know. You won't believe it. I was 11 years old when I knew about the post-war killings because I went across one cemetery every day to school. Since I moved to that place, I asked who was buried there, there were thirty-three graves. And people told me that after the war, right after the war, so to speak, the first and second months were so many and so many people for such and such reasons were killed and buried there. And that's what all the people in those places knew, and probably others. I would also like to say that what is important about this and what I understand, if we are now talking about my position, I have published three, four years before my independence in a magazine for which there may be a number of surprises, the modernity of some of my discussions, in which I have tried to explain my own, to the extent that I was able, the understanding of what was going on during the war, the motives for let's say domesticism and why it happened. And there was no obstacle to not being published. Well, that's enough about it. That's all I want to say. What is said in the opinion and what I believe is that most of these things are properly regulated, but that will cannot be regulated by law and order by law. What seems inconsistent to me also in the light of the last debate is that, in fact, a new use of the concept of the sea is being introduced, which is indisputably inappropriate. If you read Article 1 of the draft law, this article specifically removes exactly what has been said, the distinction between the sea and the grave. Whether this cemetery is now hidden, so far unknown, or already revealed, already known, arranged or not. The sea knows what it means by the dictionary, undisputedly does not mean the location where the remains were brought from somewhere else. From this point of view, it seems to me that mixing concepts is simply not good, although this may be more important to me because I deal with language than to many others. Finally, I would like to answer Mr Gorenak's question. I went out earlier, and maybe someone understood me as if I was being rude. I wanted to check, and I can say without a doubt – neither Mrs Minister nor I know that Mr Leljak has not been granted the right to contribute from the state budget, which means he has probably not complained so far. If he didn't complain, he probably understood the decision. Why? These roles shall be decided by a special expert commission composed of people from different professions, artists, publicists and so on, and shall be assessed on the basis of the criteria laid down by the rules. And if the one who asks does not meet these criteria, he cannot get a positive solution. But he has a right to complain. And if it proves that the criteria have not been met in the right way, or if it proves that the conditions are met, it is usually a positive solution. If Mr Leljak thinks he has been wronged, he should lodge a complaint and this complaint will be duly addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr President, the Secretary of State said that in some countries where similar mass things have happened, they have been able to overcome these matters and have taken this step. And let this be Spain, let this be France, maybe somewhere else. I'm just asking -- why didn't we do that? There, apparently, these things were not forbidden to speak for 40, 50 years, and it is also appropriate to remember and light a candle at these locations where this happened. There the country, when it was necessary, soon after World War II ended, did what it had to do. With us, the country and the political structures at the time did not want to do so, they prevented memories, visits, and anything related to the dignified marking of the victims or those unfortunates. The second thing is, even today this country has no special desire to do so. All that happens by shifting powers, by exercising which concept is more correct or less correct, by not putting money in the budget to do so, this country still shows that this issue has no intention of solving these problems. He has no intention of saving. And third, Mr Secretary of State, if you don't separate between the cemetery and the sea, take yourself to Bovec and to the Kočev Horn. In Bovec, you'll get a military grave of soldiers, I don't know what nationality, but in Kočevsk, you have a seaport. And this country is probably obliged to do everything from that murder scene to get the victims who are there to the cemetery. And that's basically what we're talking about. Exactly that's the point of this change of law. And if a top state official is teaching us how to do it, take the Ministry, take a bus, take a ride to Bovec and take a look at the military cemetery. And with the same bus on the same day, you can either go to the Kočevský horn or Teharje or to Slovenska Bistrica or to Barbara's and also to Konfin or anywhere else, see what the sea is. Until this quality leap in those who run this state policy right now will not, until then we will always have problems and you will argue that this is an ideological theme. That's not an ideological theme. This is a substantive issue that we need to settle and resolve in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u132	I will read to you your text, which appears in Article 1 of the proposed law. By letting go of something that makes sense. The article states that the 18th point shall be introduced, saying: "The sea is the place where the remains of one or more persons who were brought to this place and were not properly buried in accordance with the religious or social customs of that time are located." So not the remains of the people who were killed in this place. That's all this is about. And you're dealing with this own text.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thanks again. Now I don't know how to comment on this last debate. It is, however, the fact that today we are both representatives of the candidates and of our Group of Members in four, five points through the debate, we have rejected all the comments or observations made by our Government. So I, through the debate as well as last but not least, Mrs Irgle, can say that she sums up the arguments that favour acceptance and also your position. The fact is that we must be aware that bureaucratic obstacles unfortunately do not allow a decent burial in practice. On the other hand, we have in Slovenia, despite the fact that for 25 years all policy has been in favour of finally settling this issue, that each one has his own grave, there are still 600 seas with thousands of Slovenes and Slovenes. Ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna have to start working and working, not talking and writing on paper. We also warn that no one has ever been responsible for these crimes against humanity and human rights violations. And as is the situation, it's hard to expect it to be. That is why I ask myself many times, for what purpose part of Slovenian politics has been working for 25 years to avoid a decent burial of all those killed and, as a result, reconciliation. Similarly, I wonder about the archives. Today there was also a lot of talk about this with both the coalition and the opposition sides. The fact is, and no one can move around here, 90% of the archives have been destroyed. It's a cultural genocide for me. Who's been responsible for this so far? Nobody. The former Minister of Culture has filed a complaint against an unknown perpetrator, but we all know who was responsible for the archives at the time and who put it in liquidation. What did the law state do on paper? Nothing. Don't you agree that we separate the cemeteries from the graves? They did it all over the place. Why do you not agree that all victims should be treated equally? Why don't you agree that someone who sees or finds a body doesn't tell the police? Is it right that bureaucratic obstacles in Slovenia have been hampering a decent burial for 25 years? These are concerns that have not been answered today. I do not see today's debate as an ideological debate, as I have been attacked several times myself. In my opinion, it is mainly some basic civilisational norms, morality and ethics. These two words were very long and widely sung before the parliamentary elections for a year, but today we see that ethics and morality have fallen. Not today, a long time ago. Globally, there are discussions on reconciliation and a painful past at a high level, in my opinion. They're expressed in a cultural way. Here, just so that someone in society or in the National Assembly mentions something, is already immediately marked, and this is very negative, which shows that as a society in the head we need to take a few steps forward in order to be able to think about it at all. Today's assessment of the situation is that we just haven't matured for it yet. However, reconciliation in Slovenia also depends on the functioning of the law, the rule of law, the policy which, with appropriate political statements, will go beyond differences, including the educational system that will educate for democratic political culture, scientific and research work, which will allow for a smooth study of events and general human relations. In matters that divide the nation, we need to lay down the legal basis as clearly as possible to resolve these issues at the earliest possible time, especially when it comes to ensuring the personal dignity of the tens of thousands of mariners and their descendants. Members and Members of the National Assembly owe this mainly to younger generations who do not want to preserve their division on issues that should have been resolved long ago in every civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Time has not yet run out, so I ask, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. I'll give you a chance to apply. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposalr, Mr Chuš, and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Branko Grimes, please. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you for your words. Thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u137	All right, all right. We read the application, but this thing doesn't work. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u138	Dear President, I signed up first, you know that. Otherwise, if the machine doesn't work, it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u139	Shall we try it again? Well, please. Please sign up. [[talking to each other]] It's not working. Please raise your hands. Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes, please. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u140	Please call the technical service to correct the matter and we can apply for a hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u141	I interrupt for five minutes to repair the technique.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u142	We're continuing our session. I'm asking you to sign up for a debate. Thank you very much. 3 minutes and 30 minutes each debater is available. The first one is Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik. Mr. Dusan Radich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u143	I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it was more than obvious from our discussions that today's content is not suitable for the law we have on the table. I think we all agree here, I think I can speak on my behalf and on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, that the content of the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. I think it is a waste of time for us to continue this debate, because it is much more useful to do for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, find this law unacceptable and do not support further discussion. We have already talked a lot about these things, and all this requires is additional financial resources, which we do not have in this situation. I think that money needs to be spent more wisely for today's generation, for a better life for today's generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u151	President! I've been in the hall for quite some time, and I think there's been a debate before, whatever it is. Everyone has given their opinion on the content of the law itself, and now it seems to me that some Members do not know whether it is an explanation of vote or a substantive debate. I think it is right to warn them or to remind them that we are not in explanation of vote, but in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. The Honourable Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! As far as the bill itself is concerned, it is a shame that the proposaler has missed a good opportunity to talk about the marriage of hidden graves and the decent burial of the victims, because this law has given us the opportunity to resolve the issues that he is trying to put into law today, and we can quickly find that he is not fit to deal with the issue of determining the perpetrators, the convictions. So I am pleased that the representative of the Government has also identified from a linguistic point of view that only the term "seashore" is unnecessary and also misleading in this sense. It should therefore be noted that the proposal itself does not refer to what we have put forward in the debate in the detection of hidden graves and a decent burial, because the substance of the proposal for an exhumation and identification procedure is the essence of the proposal. This, of course, is not a matter of archaeology, it is not a matter of cultural heritage, nor is it justified that the current regime makes it impossible for the authorities to do their work. We have done everything, and surprisingly, in particular, the way the proposaler tries to convince and get support for his proposals, that he is constantly personally hurting and that he is also insulting the general public. We're not covering anything up, we're going into detection, disclosure, we're not running from anything, we're not defending anyone. However, we have made it very clear that we cannot change history and we do not intend to participate in the redefining of history. That you always come with the same content before the National Assembly, where the goal is not to achieve something that even by the proposer you could hear that the final result of this work is then reconciliation, and that you mentioned something else right. As far as this is concerned, it is true that there is some similarity if you put it in your armor with the right one — (c)right, then you might get the impression that something is related to the right one. But in this case, unfortunately, that's not the point. There are authorities, there are procedures to be used and implemented. Putting in time trouble, now in the loop, if we accept such a proposal as we have on the table today, it is also inappropriate to do it for reasons that have been repeatedly stressed, because we have many important issues that we need to resolve as a society, and we need all the resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Andrey Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. See, given that we are now all applying for this debate on the basis of the rest of the time, there is no possibility of replicas, so it seems inappropriate for someone to argue with a representative of the proposer or with a representative of the party having the opposite opinion. However, I would like to say that we have the same principles since 2004, and we will always be defending them. But speaking of principles, I would like you to ask yourself, above all, about your principles, to apply here for a debate, to waste time and then log out. I hope, of course, that the voters will reward you properly. But please warn Mr. Horvath that he is not offensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u156	Realising that you cannot answer, it is not fair, but it is difficult to stop such a debate because it was completely in the context of the agenda item. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thanks again for saying that. Cultural and intercultural dialogue require that we name things with the right concept, with the right expression. I stress this a lot, this was a message that went around Europe in 2008. And it went quite unanimously. If we call things by the right name, then it's the place where the living girls were walled, the sea. It's a place where they let young children die, the sea. It's a place where they threw a barbed-wired naked people into caves and then threw hand grenades behind them and something else, the sea. Things have to be named with the right name. Because it avoids the right name, in Slovenia there are some tables with very strange inscriptions, such as "space of interwar and postwar events" and something like that. What kind of events? Violent communist, if you will, partisan crime. Nothing else. And this is beyond the time of World War II, for there was no other world war at that time. And these things got out of hand later. Last time I talked about the archives that were given from the Ministry of Justice, there were a bunch of records of liquidations in them. That's why, let's say, I quote from memory, "because someone knew more foreign languages because they could read something in a foreign language." That's why he killed himself. And that's what we're talking about here today. So, of course, it's pure conjecture if this term is in any way problematic because it's the only one that's appropriate. It's also an exercise if someone who's the only one who's successfully exploring these things or at least is one of the few who's really good at researching these things doesn't give any money and is in personal bankruptcy. And then it's like, "Yeah, he didn't complain, oh, bad luck, yeah, and then he must have understood the decision." Yeah, he understood the decision that it was a political decision that said, "We want to put this under the rug." But you know what Vaclav Havel once said, "A people who can't completely clear up their past has no future." A very interesting thought, which is very useful, especially in the light of the fact that the fundamental tool of the system after the end of World War II was, of course, until democratisation and a new government after 1990, a secret political police. And if you suddenly appear somewhere to Mr Sekolec, who turns out to be a member of the Udba, forgive me, then those things that you would like to put under the rug with the wrong phrases come back like boomerang. Boomerang, which is why we're getting worse, and that's what this is really about. But it's also a purely basic human ethics, a fundamental human pietheta of attitudes toward people. Similarly, a representative of the government said earlier, "Yes, because there have been long-standing arrangements there in other countries." Of course, ladies and gentlemen, but he forgot to add the second part of the sentence, because in those countries they have dug people, they are beautiful, just as a man is decent, they have put them in the tombs, the common tombs. Not like in Slovenia, wherever you go, the bodies are still lying in the pits of juvenile children, underage girls, buried alive, all of this lying in our house by our guests. Please, this modern notion of civilization is not compatible at all! Do you know what really separates man and animal? Relation to the dead, Petet.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u159	Your Honor! We believe, as has been said several times before, that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We had the opportunity, in the context of the debate on the Law on Hidden Cemeteries, to discuss the hidden graves, the facilities, the decent burial of the dead. That's what we did when we talked about this marriage. We do not believe that it is necessary to re-breather the crane and to reopen the topics that open up at every time in the debate on the resolution on totalitarian regimes that this House has already adopted, in this law, in short, that it will not be possible, at least on our part, to come to this conclusion that this is the truth, with the constant repetition of certain facts that only he thinks the truth is the only truth. We will vote against it. I know it's not an explanation for the voice, but it's been said so, and I don't think there's anything left to add. This law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Kotnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. I think my colleague Jasna already said the point, but even though I was thinking about checking out, I decided not to. For one reason, I feel that we are always listening to the same content. And what bothers me about all this? I don't agree with the horrors that happened after World War II. We're listening to what happened back then. No one speaks on the other side of what happened to the partisans and what happened in Auschwitz. My opinion is that these horrors, every war is unfair, every war is criminal, but in all wars the character of man appears. And the character of a man, no matter which side he is, can lead to these horrors happening. I think that here in the National Assembly we are not historians to decide this, but it is my personal opinion that everyone who has been killed in this war has the right to a decent burial to remember it, but that it is time to stop what has already been, to look forward and to do something for our young people, to present history to them as it is, but not us in the National Assembly, but historians, and to start to think and use time in this National Assembly more useful for us to do something for our young people. We've also talked about something, but I think that one thing and the same thing to repeat so many times is a waste of time.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. No, no, no. Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u163	I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u164	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. This debate always leads to the same subject, the same mill, the same water and here we repeat. Now some say that repetitive is a six-mother studio, it is said, repetition is a good exercise. What we're trying to accomplish with this, I don't know if anyone understands. I think that those who deal with history and know the historical facts know what history was like, but at every step of the way and every law, whether it's a law on the protection of cultural heritage, or whether it's a law on postal services that attaches this painful wound to us all of a sudden, I don't see any sense here. Sadly, this subject, which is painful for all, and left and right, is always repeated, always given this salt to the wound, always kind of ignites it. I think that this government and our client have shown some seriousness by committing ourselves to trying to put this history in our place, to try to make these cemeteries and to try to move forward. But I don't think it's productive, and it's the sparrows on the branches. Someone wants to say it again, everyone's got their own, we're in democracy, that's clear, but I think it's going to pass. [[…]] I think it's important that we really look to the future, to some future, if they help us from the left or from the right, it's okay if we don't, but we'll try to do our thing. But I do not see any point in dealing with this subject, which is really painful for our nation, with every minimum possibility, with every law where this content can be attached in such a way. This is a thing that, I don't know, seems to me to be out of my mind and it's really a waste of our time, all of us here and also the citizens, to listen to such topics that are actually true for the professional public. Even when the professional public speaks, there will be a big question as to who will accept it. Some of them will be their own, some of them in their own way, but I think we have to be truly turned into some future, and this is something we must do respectfully, as I think the Government has purposed, which we have also done with the Cemetery Act, and this is also one of our stones in setting up some real reconciliation. Again, reconciliation is such a debate that someone else does not. If we want to split up, we'll split up, but if we think about the future together, there's something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u167	Your Honor, thank you for your word. According to some flat-rate charges, of course, I would like to explain the following. I think of myself as a person who is capable of some empathy. After all, I come from the arts, where, of course, it is a professional prerequisite that I actually did this work that I did before I took up my job in the National Assembly. In this place, I can say that I personally know the people concerned with the case of the Hribar spouses, namely the spouses who owned the Strmol Castle, who ended up killing them after the war. As has already been clear, my public position on the case of the poet Balantič, a stone poet who had entered the indigenous species before his death and was then debated whether his name was appropriate for example to be worn by a city library. So I don't personally allow myself to have some perceptions of human insensitiveness, coldness, misunderstanding, inhumanity. The fact is that the SDS proposal does not improve the subject under consideration on post-war developments. This is done by the Law on Covered War Cemeteries, as it relates to the recording of the graves themselves, proper marking, as far as the treatment of the remains of the dead is concerned, and also as far as the fifth decent burial is concerned. The fact is that the Law on Covered War Cemeteries, which was adopted this July in the National Assembly, deals in detail with all the problems, i.e. all the problems faced by both the professional public and those personally affected by the topic. In fact, it was also the essence of the Law on Covered War Cemeteries, and I could simply say that, in fact, the parliamentary group did not support this law at the time. Nor has it tabled any relevant amendments to this topic. Why so, it is likely that the answer will be found by the public accompanying this debate today. I have certainly answered this question in my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We ran out of applications. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. I am also adjourning the 11th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 4 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u169	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the proposal. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Fisheries, following a reduced procedure. We're moving on to the third reading of the law. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Competition Restrictions under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the long-term development of the police programme by 2025. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a resolution, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is suitable for further consideration. Mr Chuš has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the bill by removing bureaucratic obstacles, ensuring equal treatment of all victims, and also instructing competent authorities to investigate criminal liability. We have been talking about a funeral and a decent burial in Slovenia for 25 years, and today we still have 600 hidden graves in which thousands of Slovenes and Slovenes lie. It's time for action, because we've written enough on paper. Today's debate and our Group's proposal is not ideological, but we are talking about basic civilisation standards. When we talk about reconciliation, reconciliation depends primarily on the rule of law and the functioning of the rule of law, a policy which, with appropriate statements, will go beyond differences, an educational system that will educate democratic culture and scientific and research work, which will allow it to study developments and general human relations without interference. Slovenia must end history in order to fully focus on the future, it must do what it will do for a normal Central European country. We'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u171	Dr Dragan Matić has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We will not support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. We are convinced that all the questions raised by SDS colleagues that all these issues are already adequately resolved in the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims, and it also seems that all these arguments cited in this law are unfounded in some way. The SDS is attacking its own Cultural Heritage Protection Act, which was adopted in 2008, for example, does not recognise that the city of hidden military graves may also be an archaeological remnant. In the debate, we reasoned that the status of the archaeological remnant allows only that an archaeological method can also be used to explore what has actually happened to a place that colleagues like to call the sea, but may not be a sea, but only a city that is buried. The archeological method also identifies all other important circumstances, and it seems that when they want to simplify this process in such a way as to reduce research simply to a criminal investigation, they do not want to get to the right information or no longer stand in the same position as they did in 2008, when they stressed that comprehensive information on semi-existing events in our history is needed. There are also many inappropriate solutions in this law, or solutions, that do not belong to me, but belong to the field of criminal law. Nor is it true that the question of where and where they will be and how these victims or their remains will be buried, since this is already being regulated, as I said at the outset, by the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of the Victims. For all these reasons, we believe that this proposal is unfounded and will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u173	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You knew when colleagues explained their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of their own, to say that the explanation of vote was not controversial. What Mr Matić has afforded is nothing more than an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. And I'd like to tell you, again, that you're holding a meeting the same for everyone. If this had happened to us, it would have been an oral warning first, and then we would have given a warning. You're not even responding here. Mr. Matić cannot know what we mean by this law. That is what we know what we think, and we have also said very correctly and openly. Mr Matić can tell you what I think the SMC Group. President, I propose that you be consistent in your work, because, in other words, there is an impression, not only of appearance, but of the fact that we have Members who can afford everything at all stages of the consideration of the law or of the point, and of others who cannot even say what they would like to say in some normal open debate. It's not right what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-29-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you for your opinion. Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Members and members of the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, and the Committee on Foreign Policy, I would like to remind you that a joint meeting of the committees will begin 15 minutes after the meeting in the large lounge. So it starts at 4:30. I also conclude the 11th session of the National Assembly. Thank you.
