ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u1	Your Honors are here! We continue with the adjourned 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Report on the identified security aspects of the current refugee crisis and illegal migration. We are moving on to a discussion on a proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. In public work, we are talking about a decision consisting of two parts, a briefing and a support for the report. It is, of course, essential that we stress what is the fundamental message of what is covered in our report. The value of security is a fundamental value and is a condition for freedom, for democracy and for development. How fragile the value of security is in fact, I think we are very little aware in Slovenia. Slovenia is an extremely safe country, it is an extremely safe country and people have accepted it as something self-evident in the last 25 years. Ever since the war, Slovenia has been a peaceful, safe, human-friendly country. But the value of safety and the value of health have something in common. How fragile they are, we know when we lose them. That is why this is a problem that we must be aware of in every single matter. Now there is an experience that we have no longer had since the war of independence. This is a security challenge, an exceptional security challenge posed by the immigration crisis for Europe as a whole and for Slovenia, particularly because of its position. To meet this challenge, of course, it is necessary to prepare properly. The first wave that went by was only the beginning, not even the overture. Fortunately, this wave was handled very well. Let me take this moment to take advantage of the fact that, personally and as President of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, on behalf of the entire Commission, I will give all recognition, in the first place to the police, but of course also to all other services, the military, civil protection, volunteers, all security services, in short, all those who have managed this situation through extreme efforts at that time. These people deserve all the recognition, because they've been working hours and hours, and things have been running right. But it must be borne in mind that this was in some way one special circumstance, because in fact, Slovenia is now heavily burdened by Orban, who did not close the border, because if everything that came into Serbia and then forward to Croatia went through Slovenia, we would encounter an extremely difficult situation, and then we would probably have a very different conversation. This is exactly what this is about, because, according to all the data, the situation is now such that it is expected that the next wave will be much bigger. According to some data, which has also been made public, so we can talk about them publicly, at this time about half a million migrants are preparing to go to Europe. The larger the number, the more individual countries are expected to close. And then Slovenia will be in a much more difficult situation. It needs to be well prepared. I hope, sincerely, that Europe will unite, because the Schengen has fallen, this needs to be said very clearly. Today, in practice, Schengen does not have its own purely as is the case with international agreements. This is an extraordinary security issue. A security problem that can lead to an even worse problem that is already emerging. For if Europe does not comply consistently with its rules outside and implement them consistently, the desire to build walls on the inside will be strengthened. This is already happening because the border between Hungary and Croatia is a border within the European Union and there is a fence. Tone can become a practice everywhere. I therefore hope that today, when the meeting in Brussels is held, Europe will find some common path and common ground and give a clear message that will not be an incentive in order to speed this process up and continue. Because, unfortunately, these messages have been very mixed up so far. If this unity does not exist, the situation will be that we will increasingly depend on ourselves, as the numbers of those who will come will increase. This needs to be prepared very seriously. What does that mean in practice? By adopting the decision proposed, we therefore reaffirm our determination to change policies in the security field and to provide significantly more money for the security sector as a whole, first and foremost to the police, including the police, the military, also the spare parts, civil protection and, of course, to all those services whose aim is to ensure security in any area. Only in this way can we properly prepare ourselves. And, of course, let us do our utmost to maintain unity and cooperation in Europe to the extent that it is in our power. At the very least, I hope to speak on behalf of everyone, but I certainly speak on behalf of the members of the Commission, I am sure that the objective cannot be Europe, where there will be walls between the individual countries, but an open Europe of free people and a free enterprise and prosperity. Today, if things continue this way, it will also become an economic problem. And as the economic problem increases, so will the security problem. All of these are things we face, and therefore I firmly believe that the closed session was extremely quality, and I hope that it will be so in this work when we speak to the public. Let me finish with what I started. By adopting the decision proposed, we will also give recognition to all those services that have now successfully and fully performed their tasks with extreme capacity, to the people, to the specific people who have worked in difficult situations, in different roles, and then to the police through civil protection, to the military, to the various services, and to the health services, we must not forget, and, of course, to the end of the day, also to the volunteers. However, this process will be long, according to some figures, for four years, after some, even longer, as today’s arrival of migrants is no longer just a war, than some may mistakenly think, is driven by money. This is now clearly and publicly needed to be said. A very large amount of money, which, of course, means that even wars can end, will already be extremely difficult, and this wave will still be here. Which means that this decision to change these policies is long-lasting, so that we stop acting naively, to stop counting and relying on others, but that we are aware that we need to rely on ourselves in particular. Together with the others, as far as possible, but we must be fully prepared on our own as far as possible. Security, as we say, is a fundamental value. Security is a condition of prosperity, it's a condition of freedom, it's a condition of development. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a nice greeting from me! I also share the proposaler's opinion that this debate at the closed meeting was useful, particularly in order to assess certain risks. Surely we can say that the migration crisis has not yet passed and that there are certain risks involved. I am also pleased with the assessment by Parliament, the National Assembly, that all services have responded adequately to this first migration wave. Here, in particular, I am referring to the police and civil protection, we know that the military is also prepared in terms of logistical support, health care. Special thanks goes also to humanitarian organisations, we must not overlook the Red Cross and Karitas, NGOs and, finally, those municipalities that are also most affected by the migration wave at this time. That is why I would also like to thank the mayors who are actually actively cooperating. It is true, however, that we must pay attention to what is happening in the international neighbourhood at this time. As Foreign Minister, I must say that the situation is not good. If we look at the situation in Syria, Iraq, we don't seem to have a political solution soon enough. It has been mentioned that this crisis can take four years, and some believe that even more. It is necessary to know that the Syrian crisis will not be resolved overnight, especially since this crisis has been resolved by the international community since 2012, but very unsuccessfully. At that time, there has been an additional problem with the so-called Daesh Group, which is also a threat to the European Union, because we know what has been going on in France and Great Britain lately, especially with terrorist attacks. I am sure that our policy will also need to be adapted to the new situation, so we will need to review all our plans, especially our national plans, because it is a new threat, a new challenge. I think that this phenomenon can be compared to threats such as floods and the like when, at some point in time, such a large number of people come out uncontrollably. It is important to know that there is also the possibility of thousands of migrants coming to Slovenia in the black scenario, and I therefore agree that this policy needs to be adapted, that all these plans should be reviewed and, of course, a source of funding will also have to be provided, because without financial resources we will not be able to meet these challenges effectively. I am therefore pleased that we have also provided additional funds in the 2016 budget debate, especially for the police, in the amount of EUR 30 million, but of course if this is enough, because, as I have said, we are likely to be facing this challenge for a longer period of time, so we need permanent financial resources as well as sustained measures. Of course, it is not enough here for Slovenia to be properly prepared, this is of course crucial, but this new situation must also be prepared by the European Union. We know and have shown that the European Union, when it comes to crises, obviously does not have the appropriate mechanisms. We have seen this in the face of the financial and economic crisis, as we have built the European Union with various mechanisms, and I think that we will have to do the same with regard to this migration crisis facing the European Union. It will therefore be very important for a comprehensive policy to be built in this area, and we also have high expectations from the European Council meeting to be held this evening. I hope that the Presidents of the governments and the Presidents of the countries will see that this is actually a European problem, that it is not only a problem of Slovenia or transit countries. Slovenia has a special position here, because it is also a transit country, because most migrants do not want to stay in Slovenia, but want to continue their journey towards Germany, Great Britain, Scandinavia, Slovenia, also those who defend the so-called external European border and in this context we will also have to create some comprehensive solutions with the Ministers for Foreign Affairs. The fact is that we are currently facing the consequences of ineffective resolution of various international crises. At the moment, the most current crisis for Slovenia is, of course, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, where migrants and refugees come from, but of course we must not neglect that we also have severe crisis areas in Africa and that Libya's decay problem poses a serious threat to the European Union because it is in our immediate neighbourhood. I think that a more proactive role in the international community will also have to be ensured at European Union level in the coming weeks. I must say that next week the General Assembly of the United Nations will begin. There I will also have numerous performances in various forums, a number of bilateral meetings and a lot of attention, in fact, on the issue of resolving these international crises, and in particular on the issue of migration, particularly on the Balkan path and also on the Mediterranean path. As the leader of the coordination for the resolution of migration issues, I must once again say that we are ready for different scenarios. We must not forget that winter is coming, that conditions will be less pleasant, even for refugees. We have seen that some have slept outdoors, stayed outdoors, and if this continues, we will have to provide some kind of appropriate temporary housing conditions. And from this city, on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, I can say that we are also ready for this. However, it is very important that we are all listed bodies in constant contact with our colleagues as well, the Minister of the Interior is always with his colleagues within the European Union, and I have the same contact with both the Hungarian Foreign Minister, the Austrian Minister and the ministers from the region all the time. Today I had, for example, an hour ago, a conversation with the Serbian Foreign Minister, you know that things get complicated there between Croatia and Serbia, so that we also, given all the information we are getting, are also preparing measures accordingly. Once again, I think that this debate was urgently needed today. I also think it is good that first-hand Members of Parliament are also informed of some details at the closed meeting. I think that the information provided by the Director of the Owl was very valuable to you, too, so I think it was necessary that we hold this debate in the National Assembly. Of course, I expect Members, whether you are in the coalition or in the opposition, to act constructively here, because the challenge we are facing is too great to have any internal political struggle here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare the mags. Alenka Bratušek in Dr. László Göncz. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u6	Your Honor! We're facing a big challenge. According to some services, there are 11 million individuals in North Africa at this time who want to continue their journey northward. There are approximately 5 million of them in the Middle East. Why am I saying this? Because Slovenia will also have to face this and prepare for such migrations. These things will not end tomorrow, not tomorrow, but most likely we will face similar migrations in the coming months and also in the years until the situation in the Middle East and in North Africa stabilizes to this extent that people will feel that it is worth living in those ends. But we still have a duty to think about solutions. I see here mainly a short-term, medium-term and long-term solution. The long-term is most likely to be the most remote, even the most complicated, least likely, and this is to ensure peace in these crisis areas, which requires the participation of world powers, as in the case of the Middle East, Syria in particular, we can see that the United States and Russia are on different shores, even the regional forces of Turkey and Iran are on different shores, as Syria is so intertwined that very fast peace is not to be expected. Nevertheless, in the medium term, the European Union and Europe can make such an important contribution to better managing this immigration crisis, if Europe acts in a uniform and coordinated manner. How? If the European Union were to establish specific contact centres in the countries around Syria and Iraq, in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, where migrants and refugees could already apply for asylum in these countries for any European country, this would mean that these people should not have to go on a dangerous journey through Greece, Macedonia, Serbia, Slovenia and beyond to the north, but countries could consider the applications already in Turkey, Jordan or Lebanon. This measure would stop this uncontrolled flow of people, and would also put people fleeing at a lower risk or provide them with greater security. I think that the French President and the Italian Prime Minister have stood up for this measure, and when we look in the medium term, I see no other better solution that would stop this refugee wave or the immigration wave. To give people the opportunity to apply for asylum already in countries directly adjacent to crisis hotspots and thus to bring things into manageable frameworks. In the short term, Slovenia can only help these migrants to continue their journey towards the north. As we can hear and see, these people do not want to stay in Slovenia, nor do they want to apply for asylum. She asked for asylum for an extremely low number of people, and I am sure that if people were violently or slightly more aggressively detained in these accommodation centres, there would be many security problems and conflicts. However we turn things around, it is best for Slovenia and for these people, too, that we help them to continue their journey to their destination where they want to go, namely Germany and Scandinavian countries. Speaking of which, it is also clear that the Schengen regime has failed in one way or another, but this is already a story for another time. All countries, including Slovenia, have adapted to the circumstances and are acting in accordance with their capabilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič, get ready for Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. First, of course, all praise goes to the police, the Red Cross, civil protection, humanitarian societies and, of course, to all individuals who have contributed and donated their belongings in one way or another or bought the supplies that these unfortunate people, refugees, as we call them, urgently need. Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec earlier said winter was coming. Winter is coming, and these miserable people will need our help even more than they do in the future. Slovenia, of course, stands by them and helps them, works in this area as much as it can do at this point. Slovenia is a country of the European Union, respecting the European order, as well as all other Member States of the European Union, and I believe that the verse of Tonet Pavčka, which says: "This is how people live. Everyone feeds themselves to a funeral. Light only unites us as stars in the sky," does not hold for the European Union, but only for those who want to destabilise this common European Union and our Slovenia. I'm scared sometimes when I read forums under different articles. There, honourable Members and honourable Members, people sign names and surnames and use impatient language. That's what I'm afraid of. Let us not be afraid of the people who come through our country and want to go to Germany, to the north of Europe. Let's sometimes fear ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u9	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u10	Thank you very much. It's a little awkward, because we've been to a closed session, so I'm going to repeat one part from before, and I'm going to miss one part because I don't want to talk about the country's interests. I am talking about the implementation of the Schengen, as I have discussed earlier, and I ask the Secretary of State, who is very much on the subject, to try to read at least that part of the closed session, because I do not want to cause some things that would be unwelcome for the country. The topic that we are addressing is the real migratory pressure on the countries of the European Union and our country as well, of course, a topic that is completely above coalition- opposition political competitions in this country. We can argue about any law that we do not agree on in this country, we vote differently, we all oppose, we all challenge, and I don't know what it is, but with regard to the security of the state and citizens, it is over. I think that the coalition-oppositional rights of betting stop here and that we must not do that. When I defended the 2012 police budget, I said about the following. Ladies and gentlemen, no human rights, no health care, no education, nothing in this world will help you, for nutrition and air is the first good. You have to eat and live first, because otherwise you can't live, and you have to breathe, because otherwise you won't live, and then everything else is a meaningless story if there's no security, because security is a prerequisite for human rights, for health, for education, for culture, for what you want. In this context, I wanted to say in 2012 what I needed for the police. But I think this subject is still extremely topical today. But the broader aspect of this migratory crisis in Europe – and Slovenia is part of this Europe – has surprised me personally this year to the extent possible, for a number of reasons. For the first time, because there are two million people in Turkey for two years, and ladies and gentlemen from Europe, with us, we have never asked the Turks if you need anything or if we could help you. Second, it is logical that at some point these people began to come to Europe. Where? Greece first. Today we can talk in any way, but the fact remains that Greece does not play its part, especially in view of this crisis. It is a transit country similar to Macedonia, Serbia or any other country, but it is an EU member and a Schengen member, so the first country should do so. We come to absurdity when people from the EU flee to non-EU countries, i.e. countries that do not belong to Schengen and do not belong to Europe. Pure nonsense! Did anyone ever expect that? Never! The logical issue below is the behaviour of some European countries, at some point Chancellor Merklov, who said they would not comply with the Dublin regulations and that they could come. Today the technique is such that it was probably at the same time or at the same minute on mobile phones, computers and tablets also in Turkey, Syria and elsewhere. This was an invitation: Come! This was also a sign to the other countries of the European Union that Germany would not simply exercise depth, that I would not go into any details. Yesterday's statement by one of the German ministers that they needed 500,000 workers also said that it is no wonder that half a million people are on their way from Turkey. In such situations, it is quite clear that since the European Union does not have a single asylum policy at all – it has some framework, what it should look like, and there is no single asylum policy – this is what is happening, that is, building walls, living networks, armies at borders, which is quite abnormal for the European Union, and we could also list. These are purely abnormal circumstances, but countries find each other in their own way. The question of today is no longer a question of a single asylum policy and I do not know what. The question of today is how an individual EU Member State, that is, we too, are able to manage these flows, how it is able to protect its citizens and its own interests. In situations where there is no respect for Schengen at the Greek borders, and in situations where the Germans also tolerate it, we must be guided by taking as much skin as possible, according to our own words. The opposition does not, of course, have information about what is happening in the Government, so the opposition cannot cooperate constructively in this context and it would be good to have more of this information. I've warned you a long time ago that we're not ready for the first wave. Even though the Secretary of State said yesterday that we were ready and that I was wrong, I think I was right. Why was I right? For a simple reason, if we were to step on the Schengen, we'd have 3,000 800 people here today. I don't know where to put them. It's a good thing they're gone. But if it wasn't, it wouldn't be like that. It must be said that Slovenia has been underprepared, that is a fact. Even the Secretary of Defense's statements, if you'll let us know why the army is, I'm sorry, I'll conclude. You have to be here tomorrow with the law, tomorrow, not yesterday, because we don't know what's coming. As far as all the rest of the work is concerned, it must be said that the police have done their work under the circumstances and I can congratulate her. All the other jobs, too. I mean civil protection, health care and everything. But at the same time, you have to tell me who's coming to the border. Who? Who has the conditions for asylum? The conditions for asylum lie with those who come from a war zone or are being persecuted somewhere for racial, religious, political, and I do not know why. Most are not from Iraq, most are not from Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh. Most of them aren't from there. But if it suits the European Union that way or if it suits the Germans that way, then we have to adapt to it and we cannot do much in this area. So the police have done their job, at least in my opinion. Although you must know that I believe the pressure was severe. At the same time, I wonder what would happen or what would happen if "ugly" Orban didn't do what he did. Despite its border there, it has dropped trains through and the mass has gone from Croatia to Hungary. What happens if he doesn't let them through? Then they're here with us. If it goes the way it's been until now, that every day a couple thousand of them come in and a thousand of them go out, okay? Let's let this be legal or not, Secretary of State, because we're in public session, I can't say what I used to be. So the police did their job, in my opinion. We don't have anything to say here. Other jobs, too. I am, of course, reminding so-called activists who are obstructing the work of the police, who are organising attacks on police officers themselves, who are attacking police officers and all the other things that want to get the police out of the way so that people can come in uncontrolledly. Gentlemen of the police, the strictest. Even in Sotlo, there's no problem as far as I'm concerned. These are the people who were breaking up the National Assembly, these are the people who organized or who were fighting and demonstrating outside. Such individuals, who are also close to or at the FDV, do not show any mercy, but treat them harshly by law, the sharpest. These people are threatening the country and they're not showing up to hide them. I also call on the media to show them, but not to show only the worst, worst and most horrendous scenes that we see. If the police have done their job, I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, you're a woman. I have to be polite. Since you are a woman, I must be polite, because I am one of your predecessors, I must be polite, but at the same time I must say the following on behalf of the parliamentary group as on behalf of the overwhelming work of citizens. People are scared. Whatever you're looking at, people along the border are scared. I live along the border, and I know what that means. In such situations, I expect you three times a day on television by Jelko Kacin, who spoke during the war, whose border crossings we have all occupied, and the border crossings do not exist at all, but they are effects. It's about putting some trust in people. I don't see this trust either in people or in myself by your actions or by your performance if you want. I don't see you in the National Assembly, you're here today, and today the Secretary of State is with you. I don't see you in the media, with your phone on your ear running from the press, and that's not good. I am deeply convinced that you are capable of much in this world, but the interior ministry is not a subject you could do. It's not a resource you could run. You can lead anything else because of me, I don't want to offend you, but the security challenge with migrants is too great and you don't handle it. Since you can't handle it, you'd better leave first. Three days later, you showed up among the police after three days. I saw you talking to the chief of police, Novo mesto. I don't know where you've been. I have no idea. But when the National Assembly protected 200, 300 people, including Minister Erjavec, when we walked across the street, you know what it was like to go to a party, and when everything was broken around the National Assembly, I gave everyone my hand, everyone, from the first to the last policeman. A police officer needs to feel that the chief is behind him. A police officer needs to know today that every effort and every job at night will be paid in the following month. I don't know if it's guaranteed or not guaranteed, I don't know, I assured it at the time. He needs to know that. Let's move on. You are talking about Brussels and yesterday Mrs Kozlovich repeated that everything has now been resolved because we made a deal in Brussels yesterday. Nothing's been solved what you've agreed to. That is what we must tell the citizens. You agreed yesterday to vote on the Great Britain, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and, in short, the eastern part, you voted on them. It's a good thing you voted them over in these quotas. But these quotas mean 50,000 and 60,000 people already in EU territory, particularly in Greece and in southern Italy. Yeah, of course it means what you're saying. What else does that mean? This does not mean that half a million people are on their way to Europe. You didn't talk about them. And we have to prepare for half a million, not those already here. Those 600 or 700s, as far as we get them, we'll be able to "get" them. Easy. But many other countries, including Great Britain, have said no. This year, Britain adopted 120 people according to the data I last saw. We do not have unity in Europe in this situation. All the ministers you are here. It's not. Europe does not work at this point. This needs to be made clear. What else do I think must be done in the time ahead? Now that is not a criticism of the government, I have told the President of the Government before, and I will tell you and the public again that we will help because we have to because we owe it to the Government. At the same time, we'll be alerting you to things that aren't right. If you say that you made a deal in Brussels yesterday, I will tell you that you are on the same page because you have half a million people on your way and you have not said a word about them. These can come to us, not those in southern Italy. The time ahead is the most important time in the European context. However, the European situation is clear. Everyone's doing their own thing. We're young in a situation where you have to think about how you're gonna take the whole skin, in your own words. From the point of view of the country, how will we bring the country out of this crisis in a way where citizens will be least threatened and where we will be least exposed. You know what else we talked about at the closed session. We can't do this again. But we need to know this part, we need to know this part, this security aspect. And in a way, most importantly, on day X in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia we will not have about 50,000 people, which can happen to us. The ones you say we've already had 70,000, ladies and gentlemen, that's not true. We had 70,000 people, but they were people who were related to our citizens. I know a police officer from Velenje who had seven of his relatives in a two-bedroom apartment. That's not a problem. They don't have relatives here. They'll be on the back of the country. And this is an important matter. I will not agree, not with the Minister and not with the interlocutors we will have in the future on this subject, to declare that we are ready. If you're doing this to keep the citizens calm, then tell it to me first, but that's not good. You must prepare the state and institutions of the country for the mass arrival of these people. You have to prepare this. You're the government, and you have to do it. As far as this police work is concerned, someone earlier asked at a closed job why Minister Erjavec led the group. This has to be run by an internal minister. It can't be run by an outside minister. Migration is not an issue of the Foreign Minister. They are in a diplomatic sense, because we know, Mr Erjavec, of course they are in a diplomatic sense, in a physical sense, so here at home, and this is not your problem, but it is an internal minister's problem. In a physical sense, here at our home when they're already here. And now you're running this group, but there's no minister. Minister, I really want you to think about it and go. The question of the security of this country is too serious to fuck with. I don't think it's any problem that you'll be successful anywhere else, but you're not here. What are we supposed to do right now? The day X will come when the borders are really closed, not like now, when the Germans just say they will, and the Austrians also say they will close them, and then they say Willkommen when they get to the border. This isn't a serious situation yet. A serious situation will be, when you have a door sewn on the Upper Radgona bridge, then a serious situation. This will be called effective protection of the Austrian border when the Austrians do so. A serious situation will be when the Austrians close Šentilj and the surrounding area and we will have on this part of Slovenia, 20, 30, maybe 50 thousand people, I don't know how many. You must prepare tents today, you must prepare lodgings for them today, you must have plans today to provide them, but this will be the easiest part of the task. This will be an easy part of the task. But the harder part of the assignment will be on the southern border. You'll have to close the southern border, just like the Austrians and the Germans will. Secretary of Defense, don't say the military will be involved in cooking lunches, but prepare the marriage grounds today, when it's time, if they're not there. But if they are, make plans on what the military will do at the border. But the border has to protect it, not cook lunch. You should have plans today, that's what I'm talking about. The Home Secretary must have plans today for how many of the 8,000 police officers can protect the border. According to my estimate, not more than 4,000 times three shifts, but we're a thousand people. How will you protect the southern border with thousands of people when 50,000 people are on the Croatian side? You have to have these plans. You have to make all the plans with the police reserve. You must make all plans with a military reserve. The Justice Minister, who is not here, of course – but the interior minister, who also has powers, can do so – where do you have legislation? Why is there no tightening of legislation in this field in this House? The Germans changed the legislation, Hungary immediately, the Danes dropped from 1800 euros to 900 euros, the Germans let go. Many others are thinking about tightening legislation on illegal migration. Where do we have these bills? They should be in Parliament today. You should have written them yesterday. I warn you well-intentionedly, because it may be time, but come with these laws today, not tomorrow. Bregana or Sotla, wherever you want, is not a Slovenian border, it is a European border. Frontex allows you to engage foreign police officers, there is a legal basis for this, and there is no reason not to make all the plans and say: Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, Denmark, I don't know who else has nothing. And our officers are protecting them and their borders. But how? Why don't you start the plans, I suggest you do it, at least as a backup, and anticipate the participation of 2.3,000 foreign police officers? Why not? I don't know what that was like, 30 police experts. What are they going to do, Minister? They'll be looking at Lithostrojska and going to some kind of Occ. We don't need advisers, our police officers are highly qualified, our police chiefs are in charge of the situation. We do not need observers who will only report our mistakes in Brussels. We need a police officer standing with our police officer at the border, protecting his country as well. That's what we need. Nothing nervous, Madam Minister, I'll tell you honestly, not in my interest, I won't replace you because I don't want to replace you because I can't replace you because I'm not in the coalition. I don't have any appetites for your job. I say it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to get a more capable minister who will handle matters and who will know what this is about. For now, I'm sorry, you don't know what it's about. You had a 10-minute show this morning, and I'll tell you honestly that I'm going to go read a tape. I didn't understand you. And I thought I was old, and I didn't hear it, but I see young people here who heard less and they're right in front of me. The Slovenian Parliament and the Slovenian public need a firm, clear and loud word from our ministers. Just like we had during the war. I'm talking about Bavčar, I'm talking about Janša, and I'm talking about Kacin, if you want me to not just praise ours. Well, the son of a bitch was quieter, and I couldn't hear him. [[advertising from the hall]] All right, all right. To conclude, the most important of all is Day X and prepare for Day X, various ministers. If you have information that the Germans will take all of this, then go to Hawaii, then it is also fine, but tell the Slovenian public. Tell them the Germans will take everything, let them go, and I'm fine with it. I don't have a problem with that. But if they come, you have to have plans. You must have good plans so we won't be surprised for one day. To conclude, what I have also said to the President of the Government must be said, and I must now tell the public. I repeat, do not expect problems from the opposition, the opposition will point out things that it considers not to be well done and that it is necessary to do them well, otherwise we do not intend to dictate in any way, because it is more important for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and this country than for us to argue with each other. That's more important. To conclude, you have to say that. Slovenian police had 10,000 people on May 1, 2007, when we entered the Schengen, about 20, 30, 50 up or down. Today, the Slovenian police have about 8 000 people if they still have them. This means that the Slovenian police contributed their tax at the time of the economic and financial crisis, absolutely contributing to it. Two thousand to two thousand 500 police officers are less than in 2007, and we are in a worse security situation. Do you have any idea what that number is? That's a terrible number. Forgive culture, health care, education and travala, and now it's time for the funds to go to the police's account, because they're gonna have to go. We had the same situation in 1990-1991 when there was no money for the police. Then it happened as much as it had to be, but we needed the Slovenian police back then. I'm not saying we'll have 50,000 people on the southern border. Do you know how many we'll have? Is anyone, even from intelligence, who you are, because we don't know, because that would be funny if we knew that. But we don't know. And if we do not know, today and here we must do our utmost to secure the southern border with all possible legal and human means, if you will. However, it is certainly necessary for the police to provide the necessary funds during the coming time. The balance will be too late, I think you still have time with some amendments, given that the budget is coming. Ladies and gentlemen, people are driving old cars that have 300 thousand kilometers. 300 thousand kilometers. They pay 2 000 euros for repairs and the car is worth 500 euros. It's a condition that can't be tolerated. Police security equipment is definitely an important thing right now. I don't know if we have enough if we don't have enough. If I applied for a time when I was there, I'd say we don't have one. These are the problems the government must face. I stress the conclusion, as I said, that the most important day of X is when and when the Austrians will probably close the borders before them. At that time you must be 100% prepared, for the first time to provide or as a country to provide for those who will be with us, most likely somewhere at the dental border, and others to protect the southern border. I'm worried, Minister of the Interior, about your smiles. I don't need your smiles at all. Slovenian citizens need security. But you're in a place where you're the first to be responsible for doing this. If you're in charge of a piece, do it. But I don't think you are, and you'd better go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u11	I just want to say that I ask you nicely to be patient, cultural in language, in the debates. The topic you mentioned today, and the great darkness of what you were saying, will be within the topic of interpolation tomorrow, and you will be able to call on the Minister to resign, not today. Today we are discussing the Report on the identified security aspects of the current refugee crisis and illegal migration, so I ask you to stick to the agenda. Procedurally. Here you go, Mr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u12	Madam President!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u13	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u14	The moment we live in is too close. Overruled! We can't fuck around, they're not grandma's puppies! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u15	Again you used an inappropriate word for the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u16	Excuse me, properly or inappropriately, I'm only telling you one thing that I've been talking about the serious problems of this country. I offered to cooperate with the opposition in this area. What else am I supposed to do? There's nothing else I can do. But I have pointed out things that are not right in this country. I've also shown ways and ways to get there, and one way is for the minister to leave. Yeah, I can't say better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President, I think that in this debate, my colleague Gorenak had nothing to do with anything that would have merited criticism or intervention or the Chairman's comment. If Mr Gorenak had said anything in the debate, we could have interrupted him and warned him. You let him talk for 25 minutes. The President, however, may not have the right to comment on these rights, because he is in charge of the meeting and is able to take various measures. As regards the content of the debate, whether it is justified to invite the Minister to resign or not, I think it is. In each debate, when it comes to the item on the agenda, when it comes to substantive problems, about any area, the Member may say so. Tomorrow the subject will be further processed, from some other aspects and from another area, but Members can talk about it. However, if Mr Gorenak proposed to the Minister or asked her to resign, he did so in the light of the debate and the shortcomings in the work of the Director and the Minister, who stated and argued them. After all, there is no logistics for the provision of police units, or it was not counted, it was not working, it was shown on TV, you have letters from the military union and also an unkind intervention by the minister on this statement by the police union, who pointed out the problem that they were practically fourteen or more hours at the border without adequate care. I suggest you leave the debate to the Members to say what they think. But if there's anything that's not an integral part of the agenda, you can intervene. However, Comrade Gorenak argued what he said and also addressed what these eyewitnesses were flying to. This was a proposal requiring some response, perhaps by the minister, but not by the chairman of this meeting. The Minister can tell how and how many times she intervened, how many times she calmed the public, how many times she presented the problem of migration and illegal border crossings, what was done in the area of those who promote certain intolerance at the border and expose the police to unnecessary behaviour and security problems and so on. This needs to be answered, not that you are dealing with whether Mr Gorenak used a more fairy-tale word, more gently, or one that is represented by every Slovenian citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! When we talk about the refugee crisis, we cannot, in fact, get past the conclusion that the refugee crisis is actually another that has affected Europe when we are talking about Europe. The first was certainly an economic and financial crisis. If we remain in the refugee crisis, although they are very closely linked, it should be noted, however, that such a large influx of refugees into Europe is in fact due to the unstable situation in the Islamic countries from which refugees come to Europe. In fact, it was only in Afghanistan that we tried to somehow manage the process, if we can call it controlled, after military activities, that non-military activity that was taking place right now in Afghanistan, with the aim of forming a democratic power and thus establishing a normal working and living environment. In no other Islamic countries where refugees come from today, this is not done. That is why there is a need for dialogue, which, in my opinion, must be initiated by the EU, both between the US, China, Russia and, of course, the EU. Without this dialogue, there will be no end to the crisis in these Islamic countries. We can talk about security for long and wide, but the centre of the problem is there and without this global dialogue there will be no solution. However, the fact is that the refugee crisis has somehow given us a mirror of how we have reacted to the previous economic and financial crisis in Europe. We were inseparable, and we were inequitable with the refugee. The economic and financial crisis has shown that Europe is divided north and south, how we cruelly tackle the situation in the south and how countries in the north are rich. In the refugee crisis, we find that the East of Europe understands the resolution of the refugee crisis quite differently than the Western part. There is a very large disunity, and there is certainly another division that will arise from religious divisions. At this point, Europe is divided between two religions, we will also meet a third, and all three will try to prove that only for their believers are those who can guarantee the rights, security, social progress and development of individual religion. So a new division within the EU. In the face of all these crises, we must ask ourselves whether it is not, however, an attack on Europe, whether the crisis has shown that the EU has not actually obtained a solution to the economic and financial crisis, and, finally, a very simple mirror has been presented to us by a refugee who has said that she does not want to stay in Slovenia because we are considered a poor country. The result of the economic and political crisis is therefore that we are considered a poor country. A very critical assessment of the situation, but the situation we have heard from this fugitive's mouth must give us the impression that these measures have not been implemented in the right direction. If we can truly commend such civil protection and non-governmental organisations that have carried out all the procedures to enable refugees to cross Slovenia into other countries that are simply economically more interesting to them, it is important to note, however, that, at the time of the crisis, we have taken a very large amount of resources to safety, to the defence system, to the police. In short, this will now begin to return to us as something that will be difficult to control if we do not react in time. Civil protection certainly has limited prospects in the future, how we will tackle the security aspect. The police have made a great effort to maintain the Schengen regime. In practice, we have been able to see that the Schengen regime does not work in these circumstances. It will also have to be asked whether a so-called fiscal rule can still function within the EU, which we have even written in the Constitution in Slovenia, and whether we can actually talk about whether world credit houses will start to assess whether our money invested will be imbued with such interest or be burdened with other interest. These are the issues that will have to be resolved together, among all these global players that I presented at the outset. Without this, we will all draw short, especially if we do not invest in security and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u21	Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor. Ms Ludmila Novak, Mr Jan Mahnic, should be prepared for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the part of the opposition and my predecessors, an overture was made for tomorrow's interpretation of the well-respected Minister of Home Affairs, a state of war that is not, because these people are coming, coming from war zones to peaceful areas, and it is called the European Union. This refugee or migrant crisis did not occur yesterday or before yesterday. This is a phenomenon that unfortunately escalated and wanted to escalate. This phenomenon must be dealt with at this point, and we are currently dealing with it properly. At this point, I should also say, in the defence of the Ministry of the Interior, that it seems to me that the Ministry of the Interior is properly communicating, coordinating all the activities carried out in the last wave. I am also joining all the praises of the police, the participating local communities, non-governmental organisations and, of course, all the volunteers who have carried out this part of the story so courageously and with stamina. Perhaps I should focus a little on the European level. The fact is that this debate is not the first in a series of debates that take place at EU level or even in this national assembly. We have discussed this subject at least five times in the National Assembly, at five meetings of different working bodies, and the European Agenda on Migration, which was also presented by the Committee on European Union Affairs, has already been discussed. Thus, Slovenia has been preparing for this challenge for a long time, including in this National Assembly, including in the Ministry, in the various areas that have been exposed here. In my view, we are rightly critical of the European Union, but we must take into account the long-term and painful search for consensus at European Union level and the already seen conflicting views and opinions of the Member States. This current ceasefire is of course a few challenges for us, but at this stage Slovenia has more than responded well, has responded to this challenge, and we have also been commended and presented by the European Union as an example of good practice. Here I believe that it is also our opportunity to engage proactively in this debate and debate, as we have also discussed at the European Union Affairs Committee, and at European level also to encourage the European Commission to react more quickly and effectively. I also believe that, given the global situation and the connection with global migration movements, the United Nations, perhaps the North Atlantic Alliance, should take a proactive approach to this challenge. But in its essence migration is a truly global challenge to be faced at this global level. But if I go back, I can say that we must be extremely sensitive, human and act in a spirit of solidarity, as the Slovenians have already proved that we do. Unfortunately, the currents that are approaching cannot be stopped, but they must be treated properly, and ultimately they are also our people. We are referring to a rather bureaucraticly insufferable country that respects rules and is usually more papal than the pope, but these Schengen rules, which have been repeatedly exposed today, must be respected. Once again, I stress that we must be human or human, as has already been the case. We respect these Schengen rules, we implement them, and again, I stress, we are implementing a controlled entry of refugees. That's why they camped before they entered the Schengen area. As I mentioned earlier, the first wave passed quite calmly and in harmony. However, it is necessary to prepare for further action and according to experience, it seems to me that we are well prepared, as we have seen. At European Union level, Member States should be encouraged to reach this consensus on the common migration policy at European Union level. Once again, I think that Slovenia must be proactive, and I believe it will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u23	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Jean Mahnic, then Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u24	Your Honor, hello! I believe that today's debate on this subject, i.e. the security aspect of the refugee crisis, was extremely important, and it is right that we have faced it, that we have listened to this report. The responses of some parliamentary groups have shown that we are not actually taking this crisis so seriously or not in terms of security. Some have promoted the distribution of fruit and similar things, which has certainly been commendable and important, but the security aspect is quite different. This is an extremely serious subject that we must also take seriously. At present, I am reminded by the European Union — or at least by some countries — of the overbearing master who, because of his kindness, has opened the door wide to his home, and eventually the arrivals have thrown him or put him at the threshold. I don't think that's how we're supposed to act. In addition to being compassionate, humane, and helping people, we need to take care of our own safety and, above all, respect certain rules. Surely, the strong European Union is a major obstacle to some and cannot wait for the strong European Union to lose its power and keep us together. It is also wrong for some to resolve their demographic policy on the basis of this refugee crisis. I agree with those who say we must strictly separate refugees and economic migrants. I want to be humane to refugees, to those who save their lives because they are in a war zone, but I do not want to support criminal associations that recruit people and take them to the promised country, Germany and Europe. However, I do not want to support these because, after all, it is not right for them to serve in this way, and it is not right that our security is threatened in this way. Countries that solve their demographic policy or want cheap labour should address this problem in a different way, where they would expect it first within the European Union, only then with countries from other parts of the world. The European Union is here for a great test. What do we see when we talk to our citizens? Of course, many are concerned, many want to help, and so are so many volunteers. Contributions are being collected, some want to help in the field, all good and good. But, as I said, not on a security charge. We are solidarity, but the Slovenians are also scared and concerned. After all, it's not about another religion, but it's about another civilization, another value system, different standards. One immigrant in family reunification means that ten others can come after him. With such a demographic picture as it is in Europe, then there is nothing good about it. Slovenia therefore needs a good policy, and I think that a strong, distinguished minister for this area will be respected, who will have a word both within the country and who will be a good interlocutor, a strong interlocutor, an expert on topics also on the outside.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u25	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Mr Sasa Tabakovic, then Mr Primož Hainz, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Ministers, Minister, Honourable Director of Intelligence, colleague and colleague! Today we have already witnessed in the closed part a quality debate and also useful information that I hope all Members and Members will agree with this, at least a little further help to see the picture more at the heart of it, to see a deeper picture of this crisis, particularly as regards the security aspect, and not to fall for some manipulations that it is here in particular and only for the humanitarian crisis. Far from that, humanitarian crises are those that then cause security crises, and finally every migration is linked to a security issue and we will not be able to avoid it. At the beginning of the year, the Islamic State announced that 500 000 refugees would flood Europe – I think we achieved this before August – and that it would mix fighters and fighters among them. Not long ago, the Lebanese Education Minister told British Prime Minister David Cameron that they had data that, statistically speaking, two hundred illegal migrants represent radical Islamists, including fighters and fighters from Islamic countries. Finally, images of some who fought on various sides in Syria, both against Assad and against the Islamic State, were rounded up on the Internet. We are also witnessing that Kurds who are seriously fighting the Islamic state are simultaneously bombing Turkish aircraft to even buy oil from the Islamic State and so on. I hope that in Brussels, as we have already discussed, they will begin to talk about how to stabilise countries. If I heard correctly, it was also in the media that Libya should be first in line. Because we have been witnessing air strikes for almost a year, and the data says that some 20,000 jihadists have been killed in these air raids in the last year. The wave from Europe has somehow stopped, so that they no longer go to the battlefields, some now even want back, but this year we have seen that only air strikes are not enough and that military ground intervention is needed to calm the situation. But unfortunately, none of the organs discuss it. Maybe even a little bit in the light of the nearness of the American elections, and that's exactly what I'm worried about in the coming year at least until the oath, I think it's going to be 1. 1. 2017, nothing vital will happen and we will talk again next year before spring about how we will be ready. We have already heard here about the government contingent plan, which, on the one hand, was wrong in the title itself, since it predicted that this was a plan in the event of an increase in the number of applicants for international protection. We've seen how many of these applicants there have been for international protection, so that these contingents are of course a plan, but we haven't reached what was in there yet. However, we did not make a plan to cross Slovenia, perhaps ten, twenty, thirty thousand people. Regardless of what you think of Hungarian Prime Minister Orban, we can really thank him, as has been said today, that he has opened the border and that they are now going across Hungary through Croatia, otherwise they would come across Slovenia. I also do not understand what will happen when all these procedures end when these authorities find that they are not refugees, according to some data, only 20% of the people in Syria, all others are from Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Lebanon, where there is no war, so they are economic migrants who are exploiting the plight of refugees to then occupy their seats on buses, trains, transport. It has never been said either, but the fact is that if someone who comes from a country where there is a war zone to the first safe country where he is allowed to live and his existence is no longer threatened, then decides to move on from that country, even with a list of European countries where it is written, how much social support he receives in a country and how he is employed, then he is a migrant. There are data that these illegal smugglers have already earned around €10 billion over the past 13 years at the expense of these poor people, 30,000 people have already died in this period, there has been talk of how it will get angry for years, but these smuggling networks have not been able to plague us. In short, we don't try to solve the problem at its source, but instead we send it to the police border, to our officers and to the police. In addition, when defending the border, they were attacked twice, once by the Government, concerning inappropriate logistics for food, the second time they were attacked by United Left supporters. Of course, there was no minister in the field, but that's what my colleague Gorenak was talking about. Sad to say, police — I don't know if they're real statements — didn't get proper care at 16 hours, while the military cooks for everyone else to get sandwiches and water. Until we finally begin to talk in Europe, not how we will defend European borders and where we will send police and soldiers, but what we will do to help Italy and Greece in particular, what we will do with Greece in order to respect the Schengen. We see that the Schengen is actually failing, and this is the problem, because it is based on the European Union, on the free movement of goods, on the free movement of people and services, so if this falls, there is also some idea about a united Europe. I hope the government knows that she's ready for that next wave. We have already heard that it depends on what the message will be from Brussels today. Turkey has around 2 million people in these centres, for years and years no one has asked Turkey if it might need help, for years and years Turkey has been dealing with this issue alone, and now that we have a problem not before Europe, but already in Europe, already on European soil, it is too late to ring the bell. Now we can do this to prepare ourselves for this second wave, and above all to make sure that this second wave does not happen before winter. At the same time, laws must be respected. If I have to give a fingerprint or if all citizens and citizens have to give a fingerprint on the administrative unit to get a ID, then I think someone who comes without a passport should. It's interesting that the Syrians mostly have passports, and the rest of them don't have passports, so why do I leave your imagination, but I think we all know what time it is here. For €700, someone from Sweden received a passport with a picture of the Dutch Prime Minister. So much about how to deal with these passports, and then these passports find them lying in different fields, along different rivers, because of course they leave them there. This then also makes effective and quality work impossible for our intelligence services. There he can say any name and surname, and who he is, because they don't have it registered in the system. And we expect some of the intelligence services, but at the same time we know how human resources and, above all, financial support are being provided. I think there's some common logic here and I hope it will be in the budget too, because if we don't start providing security money you're saying that there are no terrorists among all these people who will start coming, but we can't know that, some arrests have been. [[…]] Surely, though, no one is so stupid that right now in this wave, when these fugitives arrive, he will have committed some kind of terrorist attack. No, it could happen in three, four, five years. I'm also sure they won't be joining together here in cell time, but they'll be called lone wolves, which the intelligence department has the biggest problem tracking down. I hope that you will have all these aspects ahead of you in the formulation of further policies and laws and in the adoption of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u27	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Mr Primož Hainz, then Mr Franz Laj, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u28	Dear President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The fact is that Europe is currently facing a large number of people coming from the Middle East. These are people who flee from war violence, from abuse, and also from personal distress caused by poor economic conditions in their home countries. The European Union has received a number of legitimate criticisms and appeals due to the late treatment and resolution of the issue itself, so that it must simply re-examine its fundamental values as a result of which it has been established. When we look at Slovenia, despite the solidarity of the public, despite the solidarity of humanitarian organisations, as well as the sacrifice and good organisation of Slovenian security authorities, there is still a worrying increase in the proportion of those individuals who radicalize refugee issues, which they take for a political advantage and spread an agenda that draws their vocabulary from a pool of hatred and intolerance. Such individuals and groups should be looked after. In particular, because individuals and groups of conflicting political currents are helping them to spread their agenda through their inadequate encouragement to protest, to some mass unrest and to disregard public order and peace. This is certainly not the right way, and this is bad, for a certain public is thus overly fond of giving refugees some label of uncontrollable and wild crowds. I believe it's hard. I am alone in the intersection several times when I look at photos and images of certain commodity situations, but in addition to strong empathy, it is necessary to have good insight into the problem and understanding of the problem also a rational note, which must not be subjected to some media sensationalism or some extreme messages, both on social networks and in various forums. Slovenia includes both views, both humanitarian and security aspects. Of course, we cannot close our eyes and mark any attempt to establish public order and peace immediately as an exaggeration of repression. Let us take a look at the response of Juret Poljan, coordinator of Adre, who is one of the most visible non-governmental humanitarian organisations. On the media issue of how to work with security authorities or police, he said that they were more than right, that they were helping each other and that they were communicating coherently, which is probably also the result of the work of the Minister of Home Affairs. Slovenia is well prepared within its borders, refugees have been well supplied, both with food and various hygiene products, they have been provided with medical care and psychological support. More importantly, not all of these refugees were once bullied by the public when they arrived in Slovenia. This is very important information. It is true that problems arose just outside the border, in the border area where the country was repeatedly called upon to help refugees with protection. The fact is that the border area is not exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia, and thus the authorities of Slovenia cannot enter this border area without the consent of the neighbouring country. Unfortunately, there was no agreement at this first raid by Croatia, so NGOs, namely civilians, who in fact in some philanthropic spirit devoted themselves to both refugees and others, of course, who needed help, and, of course, on this side of my great gift. In this place, I also call on the Government to have a better dialogue, i.e. better diplomacy and better dialogue with the Prime Minister of Croatia, Prime Minister Milanovic, whom some opposition colleagues have indicated to be doing well. I personally don't think he did the right thing, that things actually got out of hand, because if he did his job right, then he probably wouldn't be using some populism rhetoric and probably wouldn't have happened to the lorry station. For there the refugees, when they entered this so-called safety corridor, which, of course, was not a safety corridor, literally walked each other at the station, threw themselves out of wagons and the like. Now that I'm listening to the opposition's observations about how the Minister of the Interior is actually doing his job badly, I wonder why the Freighter train station didn't happen in Slovenia. Why did we not watch videos in Slovenia where refugees would walk each other, where they would throw themselves out of railway cars? This is certainly also a reflection of the work of the Minister of the Interior. When we hear that it is inappropriate, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot be the coordinator on this issue, such allegations are, of course, absurd. As we are currently discussing that this is a problem at the level of the European Union, it is, of course, right that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is the coordinator of the group. Slovenia is part of the European Union, respecting both its own legislation and European Union legislation. This is what we citizens and citizens decided to do at the referendum when we decided to join the European Union. Slovenia has been invited to continue to act in this way, to continue to respect European legislation. It was not only invited by Austria and Germany, which, somehow by default, has a more conservative mentality in solving problems, problems, but has also been invited by the Scandinavian countries, namely Denmark, Norway, Finland, which are equally regarded as extremely liberal and where the degree of enjoyment of human rights is one of the highest in the world. And also those countries through which we like to imitate ourselves have given us some recognition of how we approach the problem itself, and this certainly is not a negligible information. In view of the debate, I would add that I am not a Eurosceptic myself. I am sure that some changes are needed within the European Union, but I believe that the idea of bringing together and mutual respect for the nations, which in fact have a different historical experience, some basis, is a political norm that I myself follow, which is close to me, of course in the spirit of some constructive and patient dialogue. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u29	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Mr. Franz Lai, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u30	Dear Vice-President, Minister and Minister, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Migration has always been in history and always will be. Back then, we find them extremely interesting and, of course, we examine them, but at the time we live in, of course, they are a little less interesting because they have a bunch of simple problems. Of course, migration is caused by poverty, hunger, overpopulation, war and, of course, by religious reasons. Why am I bringing this up? Because migration once started, of course, is an internal cause, and therefore it is very difficult to address it. Then, of course, a "ruker" comes, let's say a war, which causes and, of course, causes the movement of nations even in the neighbourhood. And it doesn't have to stop at some border, but the whole continents can move at some point. I'm the one who's sure this wave won't stop so blind. He can calm down, but he's not gonna stop that fast. Of course, it is necessary to know that this is not an attack on Slovenia, that this is not an attack on Europe. People just go where they think they can survive. That is why I think that at this moment we must be humane, that we must be human at this moment and remember that we also have almost a third of our national bodies outside. This means that we moved and were not accepted anywhere with our hands open, but we went because we were looking for economic and political opportunities and, of course, we were preserved. But we can't be naive. That is why we also have a organised country at home today, we have a police force, an army, a bureaucratic apparatus, we are part of the European Union, we also have civil protection, and we find that civil protection or humanitarian organisations have proved to be very important. We have a police force that we can find that it has also proved itself to be, but not to turn it in the direction of the police state in the sense of selling or praising Orban's version of the police state today. The army, we said, must be in some kind of reserve, but of course we also have an apparatus that has to do its job. We are part of the European Union and the European Union was surprised because it has not prepared well, but we, as part of the European Union, will have to contribute our share. As far as the fate of the Slovenian people is concerned, if I may say so, at this point in history, I think our confidence is still important, our good work is important, and I am totally against those who say today that we do not need culture and these things. History tells us quite clearly that we did not survive as a military nation, but as a cultural nation, and in this sense we are part of history and are not exempt from some moment. What the National Assembly can do, however, is, of course, that we are united, that we do not repeat some past vaccination errors, and that we can best help people when deciding on one or another opinion or assessment of the situation in which we are and in which we will have to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u31	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor. Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u32	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! I find today to be a very useful day for us to get to know the bride. I think it was high time that it came to this because life has brought us to the point that we in Slovenia have also met with a refugee problem. Let me tell you that for more than a year now, when I have the opportunity to be at home, I have been watching Hungarian television and I have been always wondering how Europe is ignoring the fact that it is not responding to this issue that it is not taking them seriously. Well, let's hope things are moving better now than we got the information because they say the hope of the last one dies. Like I said, I've been watching this on TV till Sunday. On Sunday, for the first time, I faced this problem in Lendava, a small town with 3,000 inhabitants, where a reception centre with capacity for 500 refugees was established. When I got there, I kind of wondered how to deal with the situation at the local level, in a place that is small, which has the capacity of all these services that can take care of our security, just like it is. And I have come to realize, or at least, that we, the inhabitants, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens of the European Union with a great deal of tolerance and humanitarian spirit help to make all professional services – here I am thinking of the police and health service – easier to do their job and thus help our safety. I would certainly like to point out here that this is also done by volunteers who, with a great deal of sacrifice, cover those gaps that cannot be covered by these services because of their capacity. That is why I would like to express my appreciation to all stakeholders who have in any way contributed to the fact that we have mastered at least this first wave in such a manner as to show, after all, all the recognitions from Europe. I hope that we will also be able to manage this situation in the future and that we will also be an example to the rest of Slovenia and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u33	Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Mr Matjaž Han, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All in attendance at the Hall! It is right to take a broader look at the current issue that we have today on the agenda. We have previously learned about all aspects of security in relation to migration issues at a closed meeting. Let me do a little more of this for all those who accompany this session, that it is human migration, which is not a new phenomenon. If we look at history and go far, far back, we will come to the conclusion that great movements of nations have taken place. It is difficult to resist or avoid it in one way or another. Today's migration and migration flows are new to the fact that they are massive and relatively unpredictable. In the past days, we have witnessed a greater migratory arrival at our Slovenian border, and, as we have seen, this has been successfully managed, both in terms of the number of arrivals and in all procedures carried out on arrival. Let me, therefore, commend the Slovenian police as well as all the competent services involved in all these processes, that is, recording and other procedures. On television, we were able to monitor the entry of these migrants into Slovenia in a controlled manner. And that, on our part, we were not unprepared for this situation. Previously, we were able to hear a joint assessment from individual services at a closed meeting that the situation is being controlled, that we are ready for the situation. Surely there is always such a thing or other thought, but we have assured that the matter is under control, under control. However, it is certainly right for the public to answer certain questions that arise and to be particularly concerned about the security of citizens and the pursuit of national interest. In the first place, it is an insurance that we need to think about in advance, which is State border control and responsible supervision in the implementation of the Schengen rules. What is the readiness and what are the responses to the current migration crisis? We all know that mass migration can also pose potential risks. Our security authorities and intelligence services in the Republic of Slovenia are clear in their reports, the reports are materially rich, and the conclusion is that the services work well, are ready for challenges and that the relevant plans also have possible options for re-emerging more migrants to our borders. As I mentioned earlier, it is important that we inform our citizens that the situation is under control, that it is taken care of the safety of our citizens and that the country works smoothly. It is essential, however, that representatives of the European family clearly and loudly communicate and point out the urgent solutions to be reached in a very short time, because, as we have already heard before, this migration issue will not end in a very short time. Only with a single, common European policy will a solution to this migration problem be possible. If there is no unity, then we can fear that things will not go in the right direction. We know that today our President, Dr Miro Cerar, President of the Government, will express concerns about the migration crisis in Brussels and also appeal for an immediate approach to the resolution of the crisis. We know that we will not gain in time, but we will lose more if we do not begin to resolve this issue immediately and in a uniform way at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u35	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž Han ready, then Dr. Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very nice greeting. In my opinion, Slovenia has not yet met the real challenge of refugees and migrants. As a result, today's determination of how well and how easily we manage this problem is premature, I think. The real test for Slovenia will only come. Here, of course, we wonder what tomorrow will be. The key question is, first of all, what will be the security in Slovenia tomorrow, because we all may not be aware that we were very, very safe in Slovenia and that Slovenia was a very safe country. I would very much agree with the assessment that only 20% of the real war refugees are, in my opinion, even less. Most of these are economic emigrants coming from countries where there is no war or even paid to destabilize our country with a clear goal, but our country is called Europe. Many times today, both by colleagues and by the distinguished Minister, it has been mentioned that Slovenia is not a target country. I would agree with that, but it must be immediately said that the target country is Europe and Europe is our country. As a result, when Europe has a problem, Slovenia will also have this problem. Of course, in certain segments and measures it is absolutely necessary to look at national. The migration routes now in existence in this southeast part of the Balkans are more or less well-known, and new solutions will be sought as soon as these particular routes are cut or closed. There will be a redirection of these migration flows, and this must be where Slovenia is the target country, where new routes can potentially be created, new flows against Europe. Slovenia is part of the Schengen border and from the moment Europe is no longer able to absorb the number of these refugees and migrants, it will be necessary to stop or respect consistently what the Schengen border is and how to act here. Here our position must be clear and firm that this task of protecting the Schengen border will be successfully carried out and rejected by the wave of all those refugees who wish to come to Europe in any way. This wave, which is likely to happen, needs to be prepared, and then the question will actually be raised as to whether we are capable, to what extent, or with the police alone or with the help of any other aid, when this rush becomes some large number that will be very difficult to control. Finally, I would appeal to the Government in a way that the government would be right to the congregations, because I would say that there are many tasks and actions performed by the congregations to a degree, and then the state is kind of macho towards the congregations. It is likely that congregations will also have certain costs with refugees or with the consequences of this refugee wave. As a result, certain costs will arise, and I therefore appeal that these costs be properly reimbursed to municipalities that will actually be financially affected. Finally, I would like to know whether there are any of these funds planned in the budget and how much this amount is. I know the numbers cannot be precisely defined, but I am still interested in whether the budget has touched this area at all and allocated any means to reimburse the costs of this title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u37	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Get Dr. Milan Brglez ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u38	Thank you very much. First of all, with respect and respect, let me say that I liked the closed part of today's session more significantly than it was open, because again, when the closed part of the session is more focused, more realistic, when the open part of the session is open, the camera makes its own, and we are quickly all historians, all analysts and everyone knows. From this point of view, I also liked Vinko Gorenak much better when he spoke in private than in the open, where the camera beat him. But let's just leave it. When we talk about this crisis, it doesn't matter whether you're left-handed or right-wing, we all have a humanitarian note in this room, and we know that people who run from bombs need to be helped. But we know that it's not just people running from bombs, it's people who want to look for a better tomorrow in this beautiful Europe, but who have somehow shown that they just can't and can't. It's very simple to imagine. In a united Europe, Germany should invite refugees and migrants to come to them, and Hungary should build a wire around its borders. If this is the unity of Europe, then such a Europe is bad. I have to say that we all thank the volunteers, and I would thank them too, but these volunteers, the humanitarian workers, have proved through 25 years that they can help and that they are doing well. We all praise the police, the police do great. On the one hand, however, the police are doing excellent work, and on the other hand, certain Slovenians would like to dismiss the minister who heads this ministry. Leaving the Minister in these times, Vinko, is no help to this coalition. I think with your knowledge, you can advise the Minister differently, not like this, through public funds. Chaos, which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u39	Time's up, Mr. Matjaž, I'm sorry. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. I take your word. Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor. Mr Jani Möderndorfer should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u40	Mr President, Vice-President of the National Assembly, I thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister and everyone else! What I would like to point out is what I have pointed out several times. On the one hand, we need a certain unification in the situation in which Slovenia, on the other hand, is in which we need some solidarity. But the call for unity and solidarity must go first to the European Union. Why does he have to go to the European Union first? Because the European Union is a European Union, you will not believe that it will accept the following in 2012 – I will read to you the title that will be very plastic – "Conclusion on a common framework for genuine and actual solidarity with Member States whose asylum systems are under special pressure, including due to mixed migration flows". Therefore, if we are talking about what solidarity is supposed to mean in this case, in fact, within the European story or the story of the European Union, what it is is is very clear. What we're seeing now is that you're simply not there for solidarity. Instead of this solidarity, each country begins to take action, either by amending legislation or by sharpening it, by tightening matters at the border, by using the military, or by starting to build barricades, thus literally setting up, by strengthening its borders, so that this refugee migrant wave somehow does not cross. They do all of this, but do not do what European legislation simply requires of them. That's why I think my position is still up to date. If the European Union does not find a single and solidarity answer to the question that is now being asked and will be put forward in the near and medium term, at least one part of the European Union, through the interpretation of the Members who are looking at each of us, simply loses the meaning that it is supposed to have and is supposed to play in the global context. In particular, within this, it is also very important how we deal with those who come. The basic knowledge that is now somehow present, whether we are talking about the treatment of migrants or we are talking about the treatment of refugees, both of them are the same, we must both come out of human dignity. The protection of human dignity is also a requirement that actually comes before our authorities, when they also protect our borders when they protect the entry into the European Union, there must be one another. This must be all the more and therefore these calls after even more militarisation and even more forced action are actually contradictory to me. They are opposed to Slovenian constitutions. What does the Slovenian Constitution say? I have an article that I like to quote terribly. And that's 124th paragraph, third paragraph. "In ensuring security, the country comes mainly from peace policy and a culture of peace and non-violence." Well, violence can be used in self-defense, but any other matter simply doesn't count. That is why calling after excessive militarisation is very problematic. It's an act against a foundation that we set ourselves up when this country came into being. The Constitution was created within the framework of that broad consensus, where a broad consensus was formed on the concepts themselves and set itself in our constitution. For this reason, we must act on our own behalf as it does, and for this reason we must thank our own authorities, first of all the police, then civil protection, volunteers and all the citizens and citizens who have undergone this test at least so far. Certainly, man expects broad solidarity in such crises, and in some ways we must thank the opposition for all the constructive contributions and contributions it has made. Whenever we have problems in this country, whenever there are very important things, the opposition always listens very carefully and makes sure that it does not destroy this country. For this is what it should be and what is ideally typical, because the country is the holy thing that makes us all here. We are representatives of the state and as representatives of the state we must act accordingly. But it is very important, and it is also fundamental and is back in our constitution to look at where these values come from and how they are distributed in our constitution. Once again, for our own sakes, we put human rights first. This is a major leap from the previous country. And militarization and similar practices, against defending human rights, all of them. All of them. Although we still have one very interesting thing in the Slovenian Constitution, which says that there is a difference between the human rights of foreigners and all others. As regards the human rights of foreigners, we are primarily bound by international treaties. Those of us who demand humane behaviour respect the state and therefore do not see any reason to be dissatisfied with the current government or with the current administration of the police and other repressive and less repressive apparatus of this country. What I would like to point out in the end is, in fact, the following. I believe that, while there is a fundamental difference within Europe between some countries that are really trying to work on this solidarity and others that want to be excluded from this solidarity, it can be much easier to unify when it is far from their heart, when it is happening in transit countries when it is happening in Turkey and similar matters. Then let's at least unify ourselves there and not give Turkey a couple of million dollars, because for anything like that to stop its flow, it's going to take billions. Europe is obviously able to talk about such large numbers for some other matters, it will simply have to keep the freedom of movement within Europe, in this way approach other countries, find partners in them, and Europe should simply be asked to do so. We are the European Union, and since we are the European Union, there is no need to pray, these matters must be demanded. Unity must be required and solidarity must be required. To address this to both other Member States and to all the institutions of the European Union and to insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u41	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Han said that we're all the same solidarity here in this room. Given that Parliament is, in fact, kind of a reflection of the reality of the Slovenian space and of course of all the inhabitants, I say that this is not the case. Nor is it true that we are all united and all for the same thing. As Mr Gorenak had predicted, there are things where there is no opposition and there is no coalition, and then he began to speak only with the opposition's attitude. Above all, I must say that I liked it right at the beginning when this refugee crisis broke out, when the SDS President in fact made it very clear that Europe would actually have to find a common response to the refugee crisis here. I said, here, and this is what Mr. Gorenak was talking about. But we have Mr Grimes at home, and he's only teaching about security and who's going to attack us, where we're going to explode, where we're going to work, I don't know what else. Why am I saying this? Because I feel very important about what Mr Gorenak said, that if we really want to act uniformly, then we must also pay particular attention to what we are saying. For if Mr Gorenak or any of the other Members are scaring anyone – but I don't think you're anyone away from it – it's something completely different than if someone on Facebook sends some pictures and scares people because they don't take it seriously, because Mr. Gorenak is not anyone. Even the former Minister of the Interior is, he knows little about it, he's talked about it many times. So it's very important what he also says I'm not talking about the others. The second thing that seems important to me is that we also need to look at other dimensions of this issue. For I remember the first time on the committee about fourteen days ago or three weeks ago we were talking about this issue, that I had very clearly warned that we should talk about refugees. They are also talking about refugees in Europe, nobody is talking about migrants because we have a refugee crisis. As soon as we use the word migrants, we have a problem with legislation. That's why I thought it was so much more important that they define the term "refugee." As far as the government and its operational work are concerned, I must say that the SDS has made a clever use of this, but that he has made an overture into what awaits us tomorrow. But okay, okay, I won't talk about it, I'll talk about it tomorrow. Above all, it is important that today we can certainly claim that the Government has done its homework. She has to admit that if it's right or wrong. I'm not part of this government coalition, but she did. Why? She did it primarily because we did not see the same events at the border as we could see another week or fourteen days before, or we can still watch them somewhere else today, what is going on, and how things work. In the end, of course, I am concerned about what is most important for all of us, that we do not know how long this will take, and what my predecessor has said is that this is a test and a test for the European Union. I do not believe in the collapse of the European Union, but I fear that if this continues, the European Union will no longer have the power it could have and, of course, it will want to build it. For now it is happening to her that certain things polarize, I fear that some are even intentional. Here I think we should show if we are talking about unity to certain questions, that we will always be different, but the common denominator is something else. But I urge all those who cannot hide their impatience to at least shut up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u43	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Although I know that the subject of today's session is a security aspect of the current refugee crisis, I am sure that none of us can care that we do not care when we look at the daily rivers of refugees, children, women, sick, exhausted, with bags in our hands walking miles and miles to get to some point, to some promised land, with traumas, peripetions and other negative on this path. I am convinced that this refugee crisis is not just a security crisis. It is right, of course, to provide security for all participants, including refugees, but it is also right to open up dimensions of humanity, humanity. A single European policy in the field of asylum policy. Europe is, of course, under test at this time. on the test of solidarity, on the test of humanity, on the test of respect for human rights. This test must be done with excellence, for the benefit of Europe itself and for its continued existence. But it's not just Europe. I would hope to say that Europe was not the main shareholder that destabilised the situation in the Middle East. Here I am referring, of course, to the United States of America, because I think that the rest of the world, or especially the United States, should be facing this refugee crisis at this moment, the problems that arise here and jump to help. It's the job of all those who watch this, and I hope they don't just look at it, insensitively and from a distance, and if that can't happen to us. I expect, I do, I appeal in this place. But something seems to me to be major. It is not particularly important that we decide at this point on some quotas, some numbers, how many refugees will go to one country or another. Of course, this is necessary at this point, this is a fire alarm policy, which is necessary at this point, but of course it is essential that the situation where they have been is destabilised and calmed, that these people are likely to come back sometime. I'm sure these people didn't just go on the road, out of peace, out of suitcases, out of bags. These people probably want to go back to these places. Which one of us would just walk tens of thousands of miles away? Can you imagine that? I'm very difficult. I think it's a very good idea for some kind of harmony. I believe that some consensus will be reached here, that some means can be raised for this purpose and that the burdens of all stakeholders involved in these processes can be shared evenly. To the conclusion. Minister, be firm. Don't let any flat-rate critics get you out of line. Continue your journey. On this occasion, thanks to you, who, in my opinion, are more than properly leading this police force, which is responsible for calming down the situation, which is due to the fact that we have also received positive covers from America, unfortunately not, but because we did not expect that. Thanks also to all other organisations, including humanitarian, non-governmental organisations. I think it's also true that on this path you insist and just keep going. And at the end of the day, there won't be much time. People, let's be a little empathetic. Imagine that each of us can be a fugitive, that he can be homeless, that he can be a person who loses everything overnight, today, tomorrow, the next day. He's here for the test of humanity. Let's be human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u45	The word has been given by Mrs Janja Slug to prepare himself for the Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable Council of Ministers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I know that today the topic is a security aspect, but I find that the content has expanded significantly in all debates at this time. Moreover, in fact, I find that today we are somehow experiencing the first part of our interior minister's interpretation, but I think we have all learned today that the police are doing well. Moreover, we could say that the Ministry of Internal Affairs in due time saw the challenge we are facing today, and it was those who understood that serious preparations were needed. I even think that this place commends the Minister, management and staff of the Directorate of Internal Affairs, Migration and Naturalisation and, of course, the entire police. Nevertheless, I think it is important to stress today, as many colleagues are already before me, especially the humanitarian aspect of current developments within migration flows, because I think that we all, that is, the whole European Union, are facing a common challenge. I somehow share the opinion of colleagues who have spoken before me that Europe must certainly be united here with regard to action and also, of course, with regard to solidarity. People who [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Fellows, if you find this funny, I don't know, for example, I wasn't laughing at you, any of you. I listened very carefully to you all. So for the intermezza, because it's very rude when we're already talking about dignity and humanitarianism. Migrants, perhaps refugees or economic migrants, are people like all of us. I think that's the aspect we have to keep in mind when we talk about them. These are people who, for whatever reason, are actually forced to travel for a better tomorrow, for a better future. It's not a simple decision. Whatever the reasons they've put them into this, I don't think any of us would just walk away from home, somewhere in the unknown, into some other world, without it all, because such decisions, believe me, are not easy. That is why we must accept them in this way. These people are not guilty of anything, and they owe nothing. They went on a journey to a better tomorrow, because, of course, Europe still presents them somehow to the place where they think their lives could be better someday. So they need our protection, they need some understanding, they need security, they need basic necessities of life, they need medical help, and so on. I think that we have also learned today that we are still very successful in offering this to them. The police are the first to come in contact with migrants, and, as I have already said, all praise goes to them for their work so far, as well as to humanitarian and other organisations. As my colleague Han has pointed out, these organisations have been doing well for many years and I think they will continue to do so, regardless of the number of refugees or economic migrants, if you like, we will face them in the future. It is essential to stress that these people continue their journey from Slovenia to continue peacefully, calmly, primarily controlled and controlled. I also closely monitored how accommodations took place at the accommodation center in Celje. A good week ago, the first group came to this accommodation center, and I was happy to find that they were ready there to intervene immediately when it turned out that people needed medical care. I have to say that there was no intolerance between the population, no matter how much the accommodation center was set up in the center of the city, and there was no fear at all, people did not lock themselves in their homes and there was no situation for them not to hope in the street. Then, after spending the night in Celje, these people quietly continued their journey in their own organization forward to Austria. What is essential, and what do I want to stress? There are always some fears among people when we face some unforeseen situations, some unknown situations, and then there is some fear, and there may also be individual inappropriate reactions among people. And I think we need to call on everyone who is accompanying us today to somehow consider taking these people as human beings, offering them a hand to avoid intolerance, racism, xenophobia and so on. These can, of course, only have negative consequences, but I think that migrants should be positive, both for us and for our society, because those of them who will eventually stay with us, I think that they can enrich our society, offer it something more, and they should also be helped to integrate and thus give something back to our common well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will come back to the theme of today's extraordinary session, this is a security aspect when we face this so-called refugee crisis. Since the President of the National Assembly has taught us something about what the Slovenian Constitution says before, I will return it with words to him about what the state consists of. Firstly, there are three important constituent elements of one country. This is the territory, together with the border, citizens and as a third and the most important constitutional element of control over that territory, over the institutions of that country operating therein. There are two very important constitutional elements, the fourth element is the recognition of others, of these works, of other countries that recognise them, and the fifth is the form of government, whether it is a monarchy or it is a democracy and so on. That's five key points. Today we talk about whether we are masters of our own. Whether in the element of dealing with this crisis, I speak mainly in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, we have followed procedures that could be foreseen. First of all, because it's not a sudden act, it's not a comet's fall, it's not a pharynx that was kind of unpredictable. It is whether the institutions of this country have worked. We had a month of time, we can say that it was a matter of hours when we would get the first refugees to the Slovenian border and how we would react. My personal belief as one of the former commanders also in the Slovenian Army is that the state and government have not played their roles. First, the area of Slovenian mountains, Friday, municipal celebration in Voličina. At 9 p.m., the mayor and I are receiving a call from Fire Department Commander Lenart that they have an alarm and that an accommodation center is being prepared in Black Forest. One or two days earlier, the congregation received only one of the Ministry of the Interior’s calls to be one of the possible locations. When asked if they were given detailed instructions, no reply was received from the Ministry of the Interior. So at 9:30, I come with the mayor who knew nothing, to the Black Forest area, where firefighters, part of the RS Protection and Rescue Board from Maribor, with the support of the Maribor camp organisation, volunteers and workers of the Red Cross, prepared everything for the installation of 200 refugees; and later we increased the accommodation capacity in this centre to 250 units. At 1:30 p.m., 150 refugees reached this area. In the morning, we had a crisis headquarters in Lenart, where we determined who would be the head of this centre, and I can say that we have carried out all the procedures that I think make sense. Here I really have to commend not only firefighters, but also the Department of Protection and Rescue in the Maribor area, where the manager followed these procedures. On the side of the Ministry! Nothing at all! The police guarding the back-up unit didn't have any instructions. No instructions on how to proceed. Continuation. The most frequently mentioned diet was on Twitter. During this time the army received a call, I spoke to the officers on duty in both barracks, both in Slovenia Bistrica and Maribor. If they have already been prepared, then there are also procedures in the Slovenian Army – who is on hold, who is on duty, how they will be paid and everything else, what will happen if we go to the so-called food logistics, in support. If they were prepared - Ministry documentation, overplayed scenarios - they would also know what are the eating habits of these people, who eat food, who don't eat food. Even if you do not cook pork to these people, this does not mean that they will enjoy this food because of their cultural habits, because of the way they slaughter them, even chickens and so on, but they have not enjoyed this food in the vast majority. Then the government boasted, respected colleagues and colleagues, on the basis of all the procedures, that then the food that had been made, which cost more than three, four hours in thermos, had been distributed to the police. Now for the question. As chief of logistics, I have completed or completed education for the HACCP system in the Slovenian Army. Do you know what it means when food falls below 63 degrees? Even those who share this food must have HACCP, and none were there to share food. Slovenian Army chefs have warned some of their superiors to report that they have this experience from Afghanistan, that some are also afraid of poisoning and so on, that this food will not be distributed. This is the first case. I can tell they have the same experience in Karitas. My colleague told me a story. I think he even told the Archbishop of Maribor that they have the same problem in Karitas. We should therefore not have to distribute any warm food at all, since even in Austria at least the first days refugee centres did not share it. Dry food. They tore up daily meals, tore up daily meals for the soldiers, tore up a whole range of non-priced daily meals to give these few fish cans, tunas and vegetables to these people. During this time, the police were supplied with toast and two apples or with nothing, while the refugees were given tuna with vegetables and so on. I'll distance myself from some things. It is only a matter of procedures and scenarios that have been studied. Continuation. What action is the refugee crisis, who has to lead it, who has the knowledge that they can lead such an action? This is a police action, respected colleagues and colleagues. Thus, the Directorate for Protection and Rescue, together with civil protection, can be a support element, the Slovenian Army is, of course, a support element of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue in this histogram. The Ministry of the Interior, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is respected by a fellow minister, is the main support element with its information, with its international affairs in which you participate, as you support the search for optimal scenarios for solutions to the crisis for the Republic of Slovenia in particular. This is our country, the primary task is to protect our territory and that these procedures run best in our territory. So much for logistics. In the media, respected colleagues and colleagues, you could see the happy stories of journalists who in these days literally closed any comments and went through some dictatorship, aroused awareness among people that they did not do enough for these refugees, that they were not solidarity enough, that solidarity was needed even more. Animal stories are coming to the public as a fugitive brought a cat to Slovenia, as a fugitive brought his little dog to Slovenia. Now I ask, what are the procedures for the commercial introduction of animals in the Republic of Slovenia? As the son of a former deceased veterinarian, a veterinary inspector, I ask you if you have now heard of the titration process, when each such animal from the third world must be blooded, it must go under a particular veterinary view and so on. Are these procedures in these scenarios of yours? Let's just say it's about the introduction of animals, but it's a minimum. Did we study that too? Continuation, human health. I drew attention to a story from Salzburg, where one of the refugees came to the beginning of lepers, fortunately it was a beginning, not an epidemiological matter. Have we also provided for medical procedures in these accommodation centers, where new people come every few hours? We're in agreement with the Austrians, I don't know which ones, because I picked up the phone myself and called the county chief of South East Styria, so someone who led all the police activities, Dr. Alexandra Majcna – if you like, I'll give you his number and you can call him – who was appalled at the Slovenian police. Not because of the police themselves, but because we were unable to control those walking on foot at this time, through Slovenian private property, across the highway, across Slovenian territory, we did not control them, nor did they cross the green border on certain parts. Fortunately, we have Mura on one side between Austria and Slovenia, and on the other side they have crossed the green border, and there the Austrians have had the most problems. On the night of Saturday they got a call, I think at 9:00, then they got an order because they had their own problems, even with Vienna had Austrian Styria's problems to get some reinforcements, at the barracks in Strasbourg they had 2,200 soldiers ready to make the border a dichtig, as they said, so they're trying to shut it down unwaveringly, especially where there's a possible crossing across the green border. We did not control the situation, respected colleagues and colleagues. For the first time because Slovenia is a country of Slovenian citizens and citizens. We are humanitarian, and I think that there is no Slovenian who has not shown this unit that we do not have some great extremists in this crisis, but above all we must respect that we have also been elected by Slovenian citizens and citizens. We also need to be aware of this first. Grateful for How These Refugees Are [[…]] Now, the structure of the fugitives, the next issue. Black wood - Bangladesh. Is this a endangered country? Iran, Iraq, really Syria, let's say that day about 25 to 30%, I will not now try to include this statistics in some Slovenian average. So they were people who had no connection but were looking for a better world. If you look at why they are looking for a better world, this is because their totalitarian, authoritarian regimes, where they have not achieved some degree of democracy themselves, are not technologically attaining some standard of human well-being that we have in Europe, but, of course, the demographic picture is incredible. We have fought for this, we have introduced liberalism, capitalism, liberal values, we have Christian and partially Protestant ethics, which is why our economic achievements in Europe show up. As a result, you today have much greater prosperity, due to capitalism, respected colleagues and colleagues, you live 20, 30 years ahead of those similar populations in these countries and so on. These people, respected colleagues and colleagues, today with the process of globalisation and the origin of information technology see all these pictures and want a better life, of course, but also our ancestors have been working hard for centuries to achieve this standard. My personal opinion is multifaceted. On the one hand, those outside our door in need of help need help. Of course. On the other hand, there is an agreement within the European Union at that second stage, where we will have to say bob beans and wonder how many of these people there are and how much space there is for these people in Europe. There's something else you need to know. If you think that Islam is coming to Europe, the Islam we know from our neighbours, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is some European Islam, you may be mistaken. I recommend that you read some articles by a colleague of Gregor Preac who has lived in Islam for more than ten years, about which he wrote several books and recalls certain things about how these people react. The other thing is Germany and Angela Merkel. Her statements have also fallen, I can say, under some media attacks last year, that, say, she is preparing a fourth Reich on the crisis with Greece, so at the time of this refugee crisis, this lady came under some pressure and wanted to make some nice words. These beautiful words she uttered were, of course, seen by these refugees in these refugee centres, on the iPhones in a few minutes, which of course added additional optimism to make you come across our territory to Germany. What are they waiting for in Germany? What are the first aspects of what awaits them in Germany? My conversation with them, everyone in high jobs, in high positions, will have a house, they will have a German car, they will have a standard that the Germans have built for centuries – these are their dreams, respected colleagues and colleagues! What if Germany or other highly developed European countries, including Slovenia, might not give them this? Then what's the script? What's next? What do we have to do with this, my respectable colleagues? Today I am not as critical of the Minister as I may be of the other politicians who have built an image of solidarity, let us be solidarity. Okay. Whether we have also asked our citizens and citizens whether they are really prepared in those countries where we do not have such high added value, where we cannot employ so many people in industry and in other institutions, to give up such and such a percentage of the poorer standard. Will this solidarity then drink water? We now have just the pressure that was sudden, the pressure for a few days. We've noticed that people's opinions are changing. People are willing to be in solidarity with people who have gone through our territory. I don't think we need to open up some hard stuff here and prove to each other who's more solidarity and who isn't. But do we really have solutions? Can we keep these standards? Will we also be able to maintain this respect for human rights and for all that Western Europe has brought or for the Western civilization? These are questions right now. I must admit, at the first pressure of refugees through Slovenia, we've made quite a few kicks. We are preparing for a new opportunity or a new pressure. And today's session is not just an aspect of the accusation, it has an aspect of whether we have learned from it or whether we are going to overtake these scenarios, and whether we are going to make a new plan on the basis of everything we learn, including these kicks. A new plan, respected colleagues and colleagues, Europe is our wider community and our closer community is the country of the Republic of Slovenia. As Members, we are obliged to discuss in particular in the field of the Republic of Slovenia and we are obliged to ensure, in particular, the safety of our citizens and citizens and also to respect their private property. The fact that the refugees were walking through their private property, jumping across the highway, and thus pointing to a situation that was not under control, and we are talking about the arrival of 2,000 people. That's all I noticed from the field. I would ask if, somehow in this sphere, there were any further discussions on these observations at today's extraordinary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u49	Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the ministers, to the minister, to the rest of the government's team. I can't begin at all after listening to Mr Breznik, because I think we're in one of the parallel worlds, but I would like one precedent if everyone would let me, but no offense. Today my old grandmother is eighty-nine years old, and I wish her all the best, and I hope she's listened to everything that's happened before. Let me get back to the subject of migration and this. The security aspects of all of this are extremely interesting and broad themes, as we have heard from my predecessor. You can look at this extremely trendy, sensationalist, and the media are taking all of this into account, but the facts and facts are quite different, so I think that with some calmness and with some real picture we will be much easier to deal with all of the things that are at stake with the country, our citizens and all the bodies that are working. I am still of the opinion that the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Rescue and all other bodies, at the same time of course also NGOs and local communities, have played a very positive role, so that we must not forget that this was one drop, and we are expected to have one great wave of refugees, so that we must not fall asleep in this. If there have been any mistakes or anything, it can still be arranged somehow and set up this system now to somehow work. As far as non-communication between authorities and between countries is concerned, if I have correctly understood the Minister in her previous speech, they are in constant relationships, it is said that certain statements that my friend France has said are somehow not true. I think that the Minister will probably confirm this to me, because it is not without the countries through which this wave is taking place that are at least a little coordinated or informed, so I don't think he can hold it. But I'd like to get back to another matter. We are talking through this micro scene of ours, Slovenia and our region that surrounds us, but we are forgetting one important thing – here I also appeal to all ministers, in particular the Minister of Foreign Affairs – that we must say clearly, loudly and articulately in Brussels, the European Commission and the European Parliament that the causes of this crisis must be addressed. Not only do we eliminate the consequences of some partial measures that do not actually solve this issue comprehensively, we forget about things such as integration, assimilation or stabilisation. In the role of the European Commission itself, as mentioned earlier, and I think that Mr Šircelj has said this in previous sessions, it is important to ask what she has done so far, what her responsibilities and responsibilities are, if we know that this issue with these refugees does not last from today, tomorrow or from before yesterday, but it has been a long time. Italy has warned about this for a long time, it has struggled with it itself, and now we have left Greece half-broken, with a bunch of refugees, and everyone is wondering about Europe, how and what. At the final stage, when we talk about these refugees or immigrants, are they economic or are they political, what kind of signal does Germany give? Germany is giving such a signal that this wave of refugees will only increase and this is exponentially. If this is an understandable, responsible act of one important country, then we must ask ourselves what we must do. In fact, we need to work on the proverb Help yourself, and God will help you because otherwise, unfortunately. Because we're gonna wait for Europe, what will be decided, how will it be decided if it does this meeting, if it does that conference here, we're full of it. [[…]] I think that our government and this structure, which is set to act on these refugee issues and issues, have objectives. Few can be fixed, and they also plan and plan, so that they can be somehow framed and directed. However, on our part and on the part of the Government, it is necessary to speak clearly, loudly and decisively at all the instances in the European Union, so that action must be taken without delay, because there has been a great deal of sowing. We are still dealing with a lot of things today, but we have to have specific tasks and concrete measures, because otherwise we will not solve this matter. This has, for example, really been demonstrated by this government, when at least this initial part of migration has somehow succeeded. Unfortunately, I don't mean to say, but there's a bigger wave to be expected that could really be one mass exodus that could be problematic for all the structures that are set up. We really need to get ready for this at all. But for everything else, I think, as Mr Pojbich would say, let's get together and do something good. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u51	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenka and Dr Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I warmly welcome you, colleagues and colleagues, ministers, ministers, representatives of the Government, others invited and, of course, all who accompany this meeting! In opening, I would like to express my satisfaction that the government coalition also recognises the need for a debate on the report on the identified security aspects of the current refugee crisis and illegal migration proposed by today's meeting, the Slovenian Democratic Party and Novi Slovenija. In fact, we have been turning this topic around since the middle of the morning, both at the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Union Affairs and now at the plenary session. And that's right. Colleagues and colleagues, migration has always accompanied humanity and I say that migration will always be accompanied by humanity. We are dealing with acute questions: Is it a refugee wave or is it a migration of nations? Is it about saving naked lives or is it about running away with your stomach for bread? There's gotta be something. It is a great tribulation for a great crowd. I have repeatedly said in this National Assembly that humans are not the same. People are not equal. But we're equal. Therefore, the life of that Syrian refugee is as valuable as the life of a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. And there's something else that's certain. It's one of the most intolerable humanitarian dramas in decades. Prior to such a scenario and to conflicts that are spreading and alarmingly disrupting internal balance as well as regional balance, the international community does not appear to be able to find appropriate answers, while arms dealers continue to act in accordance with their interests. There is also concern about how to bring chaos into individual countries and bring chaos into the European Union. That is why it is difficult today to make a distinction between migrants. One must be economic migrants. On the other hand, we have countries, specifically Germany, that need and invite people, because their industry needs jobs, they say half a million, thank God. Secondly, they may also be the ones sent from whom to bring destabilisation into this same Germany as the most powerful European country in the economy, as well as the world power, and destabilisation into the European Union. It's hard to point a finger at you because we don't know them and we don't know them. They don't have documents, we don't know anything about them. As a Christian Democrat, many will ask me and listen carefully to what I have to say about the threat of Islamisation in Europe. I don't have a problem with that. Why not? Because religious freedom is one of the fundamental human rights. But when I spoke earlier about some potential migrants sent to create the European Union's destabilisation through terrorist actions, then here I ask first about the security of our people in my own country and, of course, also about security within the European Union. Today we are saying that Europe is uneven. It's really uneven, but I'm gonna say it and show you a case of unity. This month, Saturday and Sunday, 5 and 6 this month, Luxembourg, which, as you know, holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union this mid-year, was the Interparliamentary Conference on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and on the Common Security and Defence Policy. Following the hard coordination of conclusions, we adopted conclusions with consensus, which were also distributed in the National Assembly today, and I don't know who everyone, the PSC or anyone else is. But that is where we came to conclusions with consensus, because with regard to the refugee problem and with regard to the requirements for a more coordinated management of migration flows, I stress that we have adopted eleven conclusions together and in a uniform manner. I don't know who's listening to them, who's taking these decisions into account, but they should be if we have parliamentary democracy within the European Union and national parliaments together with the European Parliament form a European parliamentary system. One more thing. 17. This was last week, and the European Parliament adopted measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of Italy, Greece and Hungary. €780 million is worth it. I told the Foreign Policy Committee today that I demand that today, on the European Council, the President of the Government also highlight the cost aspect Slovenia has for the establishment of the Schengen regime. It's not that we're hungry for money, it's that we're protecting European borders. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u53	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenka has the word to prepare Dr Jasna Murgel and Dr Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the distinguished ministerial team! I come from the border congregation, from one of the border congregations, which is in fact also on the border with Schengen. Perhaps that is why this problem of migrants is even more topical. It is right to point out in the beginning that we Slovenians have always been, and we will always be, humanitarian, which they always prove. We always help those who really need help. I would also like to thank the police because they have done their job well so far, as have all the other organisations, civil protection and many volunteers. Of course, it is important that we actually help those who really need help to help refugees. Who are the refugees? We have heard that today, those whose lives are at risk in their country. And they usually run to the first safe country. If we look at the map, Slovenia is certainly not the first safe country. In fact, these people are supposed to be looking for a safe country and not a rich country, even though we see individual declarations that Slovenia is too poor for these immigrants, who cannot be called refugees, but they are immigrants. In fact, we need to call them economic immigrants, who in their own way are also exploiting the plight of the real people whose lives are actually threatened because there is a war in their home country. They're using them to come along this way. Of course, with a view to enabling ourselves and our family to live a better life than they see in Europe. There's nothing wrong with that, but they're taking advantage of people's hardships, and they're doing it illegally. Many times it turns out that they are mostly educated, and all of them could come to Europe legally. In Europe, we have so-called blue cards, just like America has green cards. I don't know how much they're used, but they're meant for trained non-Europeans. That means all these people could come legally, but they're not coming. Even when it's sometimes said that she's the most child and the most female. What do we see if we watch these videos now? I see mostly men, hard to say which age, but most of them don't exceed my age, most of them don't exceed 35, 40 years. And they all look in very good physical condition. If we remember the war in Bosnia, who was it? Mostly women and children. These are refugees, and these are the ones that really need help. We must not forget here the safety of our citizens and the safety of our citizens. We are a country on the Schengen border, and we must, of course, also adequately protect it, which on the one hand is the appropriate registration of these people, and on the other hand, to secure them and to ensure certain security on their transit. But we know it wasn't. They walked freely on our roads, highways. Some people living in these areas were afraid. I believe that many houses were more locked than others and that many children were not as relaxed as they are playing, but whatever you're talking about here today. I believe most of you have already been on a plane. Each time you take a flight, they will first introduce you to how to act in the event of any danger. If you remember when the picture shows when the mask falls down, what's particularly exposed? First you have to give yourself an oxygen mask, then you have to help the others. That a woman had to give it to herself first and then to her child. Some of us may find this hard to understand, but let us give this case a little bit of a picture of our country. Let us first help our citizens and citizens and first take care of their security. We must also ask what financial burden our country can bear. On the one hand, we are talking about economic growth, and next year, and also this year, they will be based mainly on exports. But what happens if the borders are closed? Will our companies just be able to export? We really need to ask ourselves how financially we can do this. There were a lot of images circulating on the Internet. One very cruel, many sad. The fact that police officers get two cold meals after 16 hours of work seems terrible. Fortunately, there are also good people who have brought them hot pizzas. I was very happy about that. A state-owned company offers refugees free internet access. Commendable, but we also have citizens and citizens who do not have a signal in the more peripheral regions of Slovenia to have the internet in 2015. We see pictures of waste remaining. We're splitting up the waste. Every three years an old child knows how to separate waste. If you don't separate them, you can be punished for it. We just have certain rules in the country. To talk about walking on highways and how we put our people on the other side, and I'm not even talking about it. It is true that most of these migrants want only to cross Slovenia so far. But as it has already been exposed, what happens when Germany and Austria close the borders? Maybe you don't have much to worry about here in Ljubljana, but we, who are from the Styrian end, are much more. I also remember what it was like when the border with Austria was closed, when we waited at the border, or when we had those boundaries because we lived there so we could cross the border. Today we can move freely, today we feel free, and we want to keep this in the future. We do not want borders between countries, and we also need to be aware of that here. Slovenia has always been considered a safe country, we have always behaved with it, and I really want this security and freedom to be maintained in the future. It is my opinion that we are helping those who are truly in need, but we must not forget our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u55	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare for Dr. Bojan Dobovšek and Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. If we're talking about what anyone remembers, I remember what it's like to run from an area where someone wants to kill you. That is why I think that the first and most important message that we will give from this Parliament today in this public part of this session is that we are capable of humanitarianism, solidarity, compassion for those who flee from danger. And Slovenia has shown that it is capable. The next thing I want to stress is that we need to pay attention to the element of fear or panic that we can create all those who, from the position of a certain official, make statements about the situation we are talking about, that is, the migration problem, the issue of refugees. I think that, above all, politicians, especially in Parliament, are obliged to make statements in this way, to encourage as little of this fear as possible and to use as little hate speech as possible, not to use it at all or anything like that. This can trigger a wave of public opinion, which is then very difficult to stop. Today's debate is essentially the Commission's report on the supervision of intelligence and security services, which this Commission has given in relation to what the competent institutions have reported to it on the security aspects of migration policy in the Republic of Slovenia, with the increased pressure of migrants. What we were informed about at the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, which brought to the attention of the entire State Assembly at this secret meeting today, was that Slovenia was well prepared to receive refugees and migrants, that it had a plan that it had also carried out well. Yes, the police need more resources, and also all those involved in the reception and treatment of refugees are likely to take this into account in the next budget and will also receive more of these funds. This was a fiery baptism, if we can say where we have received many important experiences, that we will also know in advance how to deal with the next greater number of refugees or migrants who will come to our borders, that we will know them and be able to deal with them at our borders. Let me answer my colleague Breznik just one aspect of the cooperation of state institutions with mayors in border areas. The mayors have been in daily contact with the State Secretaries at the Ministry of the Interior, and operational meetings with the mayors at the Ministry of the Interior have been organised, all other authorities participate, are informed daily and participate in the resolution of this problem. We have accepted migrants or refugees with dignity, we have complied with all the rules of the European Union that we must abide by, we have fulfilled our duty. We have thus protected our population, protected part of the European Union's external border, which is falling out of Slovenia, protected refugees and respected their rights under international law and European Union law in accordance with European Union policy. So far we are doing this well and there is no reason for us from Parliament to give a message to the public that everything is wrong, that now we are in danger I do not know what a great danger is. There is no reason for fear, only what we have done several times today can we commend the police, civil protection, local communities and all those involved. Of course, the problem remains in what else is coming. As we have said many times before, we are not the ones who can solve this problem on their own. Once again, I would like to stress what I have said before, that we cannot and cannot simply write down the European Union, and at the first big challenge ahead of us, say: Op, but now nothing works. It's like getting married and saying, okay, they lived happily ever after. Then at the first challenge, you say yes, but now you don't, and now we're going apart, we can't. Here it will now appear, in my view, that is the point of the break where the European Union will determine whether it is even capable of adopting a common policy in a particular area that concerns all of us in life. Here it will be shown whether the European Union is acting on the fundamental values it declares, and one of them is solidarity. Okay, well, the internal market too, but solidarity, transfer and burden sharing. This is what we also need to ensure in the European Union. What can we do as Parliament of the State of the Republic of Slovenia? We do not ask, we can ask the institutions of the European Union to adopt this common policy. From here, we can send a request for a common policy to be drawn up in order to take a decision. That's what we can do here. It is clear that Slovenia is not the only player in this story that we are a small country, but within the institutions of the European Union, the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Council we have the opportunity to demand that a joint decision be taken that concerns all of us. That is why I propose from this place that we do this and call on the institutions of the European Union, especially the European Council, which is making strategic decisions that when they decide on this today and in the future, they will take this decision, because without this decision we will be left alone, which of course must not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u57	Dr Bojan Dobovšek has the word to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u58	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Security researchers have been alerting this issue for years, but as long as migration takes place across the Appenian route, across the Iberian route, no one has thought about it. Now that the path has moved on the Balkan path, there is panic in all countries and the clumsy responses of some countries due to the size of this problem. If I quote Huntington, it's already the third wave of migration. The first wave was the wave of America's conquest, the second wave after World War II and the third wave with the fall of the Berlin Wall, first the migration within Europe and then the expanding eastward. And this trend will only continue. If I were to point out what has not yet been exposed today, the financial flow and the financial problems of these migratory flows. Let us look at the Arab spring, how it began, what its purpose was, and the chaos that came from it. This is where, on the basis of corporate risks and ideas, migration began, initially economically and then further into the wave, also refugee problems due to accelerated war situations in the ISIS country. This is because only the state on the other hand supports these corporations. Where do they buy the oil they trade with? If we look at the fighters, the fighters are well equipped and trained, it is said that they have equipment from developed countries. If I move on. The whole wave that will come to Europe — we have heard many times that Germany needs so much and so much labor. Yeah, maybe that's what Germany needs, but again, the question is, what kind of workforce? Will this workforce be employed in the formal sector or will it be employed in the informal sector? What will happen if she is employed in the informal sector? What are the measures to be taken to continue working? Many times, fear, fear of organised crime, fear of terrorism was mentioned. I believe that the greatest fear is even before the information is closed. The secret session we witnessed today sparks a certain fear, and fear also causes people not to be represented by real, fast, specific information and people who are responsible for it to act decisively and to appear in public. A large part of the first wave was taken over by NGOs, humanitarian organisations, even as we know they helped those first police officers who stopped at the border with Croatia. We know that a police officer will do well if he is properly equipped and properly fed. And this second part was largely carried out by NGOs and volunteers. If I go to the end. Slovenia must clearly present its views and is dependent on itself. Of course, we are part of the European community, but these responses are too slow. There we must clearly express our views, create our own policies and, on the basis of these policies, the strategy, how and what we will do, and make this clear in the European Union. As far as safety is concerned, it is also economic security, environmental security. We have not started to talk about this at all, and it is these two forms of security that are linked to the migration we are witnessing. I would conclude that we need to present plans and measures to the public as soon as possible, but not to hide them under the veil of some secrets and secrets, because this raises fear in people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u59	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u60	Mr President, the honourable Council of Ministers, thank you for your words! First, I would touch a little of the history that sometimes needs to be learned. In 367 the Goths fled Huni, and the Slavs moved 500 years ago. If we go any closer, in 1890 a million Armenians also had to migrate violently. In World War II, 55 million exiles died in camps. In recent history, let's look at Rwanda, and it ran away from home about 2.3 million Hutujs. And finally, our immediate historical past, the Yugoslav tragedy, has moved over a million refugees out of Bosnia. What is the red thread of all these refugee crises? Running from dictatorships, running from wars. Let us ask ourselves, who are these dictators, who is causing wars, what is the interest of capital, greatness, colonization of natural resources and the exploitation of wealth, in this case, which we are now talking about, perhaps oil. I would like to draw attention to the origin of this refugee crisis. We Slovenians have also met in our own history with persecutions, evictions, many Slovenes or entire families have been relocated to Serbia, and we have great experience in similar events now experienced by these refugees. This time, too, they face violence. I think we must prevent it in any way with some measures, not at the local level, but at the European level and also at the global level. Our Tomo Križnar also warned of this problem in Africa years ago, perhaps we have not heard enough of it, but the world's public and leaders did. Former President Drnovšek also warned the world public about this topic. Let us recall his attempts to bring this matter to an international debate. As far as these migrations are concerned, let us look back a few years. These neighbouring countries — Libya, Syria, Iraq — were at peace, countries were operating under some local authorities, of course under certain special types of dictatorships, but there was some kind of peace, they used oil, countries functioned normally. I think it was in the interests of capital and great power to control this oil and to exploit these countries. Under the cover of exports of democracy, these countries have fallen apart and now we are where we are. Military profiteers trade weapons, and we must, because we are a humanitarian state, which is also right, accept refugees. I think that Europe, not Europe, nor the world, is seeing this situation and, above all, at the global level, does not face a problem where the issue is at the heart of it. I think that it is also possible today to give the initiative that Foreign Minister Erjavec, who will shortly meet in the Security Council or the UN, may also give the initiative to organise peace forces in some way or to call upon the extraordinary assembly of the Security Council, which would immediately put this topic on the agenda. And, of course, it also created normal conditions in this area and the normal economic development of these countries. I think we must make every effort to create a more just world and allow all earth’s inhabitants conditions for a decent life. From this point of view, I also assess that I am proud that our small country, Slovenia, in this case, has reacted in a way that has allowed these refugees to move on. I don't want to judge ministers by the number of media performances, because I think they count acts. I think that our ministerial team and the government have played the right role and have also shown other countries how to act in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u61	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare for the mag. Lilliana Kozlovich and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u62	Honourable President of the National Assembly, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ministerial assembly, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! When we talk about the security of the country, I think about the Republic of Slovenia, we certainly have things to worry about. I am sure that we have not listened enough to the next three Members, especially to Mr Grims as a proposaler here, but I am very pleased that we have two experts among the Members in this area, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Dr Bojan Dobovšek. We have not talked enough about the causes of this tragedy, which certainly puts the European Community to the greatest test in history. It's not the Slovenians and Slovenians' fault, it's coming very far. If we had spoken in this area 25 years ago, this world would have been much bigger, but today it is certainly very close. All of us have come to realize from a distance that the European Community here is indivisible, is not connected and is on a great test. Slovenia is part of this European community. We have also talked today about whether it is right to perform through the media or not. Only one sentence of one of the most influential politicians, Mrs Merklov in Germany, was mispronounced and everything was wrong. It is only right that we know exactly how to act in the media and, of course, tell our citizens and citizens about the situation we are in. Today we have talked mainly about what we have done in the past, in the last fourteen days. Many praises must be given to police officers, firefighters, the Red Cross, Karitas, and many who brought food, tents, and help these people. I am convinced that today we are not aware that this is only the beginning, that this took winter and that it will last in the spring. I'm afraid those people who are willing to volunteer will soon be exhausted. Above all, it is important for me to remember police officers, firefighters, and others when they help us, then of course we know to say thank you when we have to pay them or meet better conditions, but of course we are quieter or forgotten. Let there be today's session that I think was united [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u63	The word has magic. Liliana Kozlovich, prepare Dr. Mitja Horvat and Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u64	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have heard today that, on the basis of the report that we have discussed at the closed session, we need to be afraid. But what is fear? Fear is essentially an subjective fact, and on the basis of this, discourse has been very different today. Those who are afraid have expressed this, but those who trust do speak differently. I think we need to trust that the government has proved these days that it is capable of providing security and that it has all the necessary resources and is actually strengthened. However, I also understand the opposition that it cannot and must not recognise the good wages of the Government. I cannot understand, however, that the measures taken by Hungary are being magnified to call for the closure of our borders by using an army at the border to use coercion, and I cannot understand that. I wonder, What are we afraid of or fear of these people? What is the fear of those in Europe who are not united who did not agree to a single agreement yesterday. A colleague of France has already said that refugee, which is a different phenomenon from migration, is not new. This has already happened in history, it is happening all the time, and Europe has, of course, faced it all the time, and it has experienced the greatest dimension in the 20th century. A million Armenians were running from the Turks, and we know how to bow to that. In 1917, 1.5 million Russians fled to Western European countries, 15 million Germans being expelled from former German areas in the east and south-eastern Europe. About half a million Karelians fled to Finland at the end of World War II, and 160,000 people fled from Hungary to Austria. In the 1990s, of course, we also witnessed to our refugees from Yugoslavia. According to UNHCR, there are 17 million refugees around the world and today we have Syrians ahead of us. Again one of the crises, or one of those ugly situations, is people fleeing their country because of the conflict. In three years, 175 thousand people were killed. 3.5 million fled to neighbouring countries, attracted to them because of their interests and then renounced their dignity and, in fact, persecuted them and fled from them. 6.5 million have been displaced throughout Syria itself, are fleeing the bombings of their regime and, on the other hand, the killing of their rebels to fight against this regime, but we find that they are increasingly fighting for their own interests. That's where the economy stopped. Agriculture, which is the heart of their operations in Syria, died. These people are here today. We say that these are not the same people as those who came in 1991, 1992, we do not have to accept these people. We say that it is not the same thing that the state will suffer here, that they gave their relatives at the time. But who are the relatives? Who are the people or who is the country? Are we not our people and all of us together? It doesn't matter who does, or to someone from their own or to someone from the budget. Of course, there are many migrants among these people, these are those who go with the belly for bread because they want to give their locals a decent life or to enable themselves to study, in short, a better way of life. Do you think it's really easy to leave your home, leave it and leave it? If we look at it this way, millions and millions of people have already moved and gone with the belly behind the bread, and this globalisation is a gap between how many parts of the world have and how many others have actually increased. It's perfectly normal for people to go where they can live better. Since 2005, there have been 200 million migrants of economic migrants. Is there something wrong with that? Should we not allow them to leave because of this? Well, we're gonna help the refugees, and we're not gonna help the migrants. But again, I wonder why. After World War II, our Slovenians left. Imagine, too, when our young people leave today to be denied that they are not helping them abroad. We're proud of our grandfathers who left. There are about a million of them abroad who have gone this way. We say men go and we have to be afraid of them. Our grandfathers were also first visited by men to prepare and later invite their families to join us. But if they couldn't, they helped them with the money they were sending home. Actually, I wonder what we're afraid of. If you want to see it that way, migration can really mean something negative, it can change the map, the culture. What are we afraid of? That we're gonna eat different food? To see if we can see any different fashions? Maybe we'll have one more holiday? What are we actually afraid of? We say there are terrorists among them. On what grounds can we say that? Even if they are — some individuals may be, because there is always someone who has a bad intention — that is why countries have their intelligence and anti-intelligence services. I believe it is a slightly more difficult situation, but I also believe that they are capable of providing security. What seems important to me, what we have experienced in these days, and I hope that we will continue to do so, is that our institutions have provided us with security, and above all that there are those individuals who do not think about themselves, who are not afraid that they will be deprived of what they have and that they will live worse. It is common for those who have little to share with others, for those who have much to fear losing it. They were the first to proclaim by their actions those who, both on social networks and in their discourses, explain their fear and try to convince others that they are afraid. I believe that this kindness of people will continue to apply because the Slovenians know it and we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u65	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Mr. Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Interestingly, today the proposaler is not in the hall, as we are regularly told that we are not in the hall in important discussions. This time they do not even support their own proposal and regrettably do not, as is usually the case, in line with words, that is to say with calls for unity, because their calls for unity are more than obvious in disagreement with our calls. If we had a lecture yesterday on the provisions of the Constitution that the SDS party respects and uses in its work, today I must warn a whole number of Members – now I will not list them specifically, they will recognize themselves, because unfortunately they are no longer here, otherwise I would refer directly to them – that there is also a 63rd article towards the end of the second chapter, which prohibits the promotion of inequality, intolerance and the promotion of violence and war. Unfortunately, all of this has been received again by the SDS today, and I really hope that at least one of the words they will say will do something about it and that they will do so in the following way. We have had too many words to deny to people in distress the fundamental human rights, all in the name of petty and great instigations. Of course, we believe that Europe will also be able to find a common language with our efforts to resolve this great agony and to find a new expression, because the existing expressions we use – refugees, migrants, asylum seekers – do not depend on this case, because all the situations and situations have exceeded the limits of the usual rules we know. Here's the thing. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u67	Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u68	Dear President! I think that once before his vacation, Mr Horvat asked you to warn me about my statement that he did not make. But what Mr Horvat has enjoyed today is that Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have encouraged violence and war in today's debate, but more than, I don't know what to say, unheard of. Dear Mr Horvath, when a Member's mandate has been revoked, violence is respected. This was the case in this National Assembly. There was no word or call for violence in the debate of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, it was justified to fear and, above all, to take a responsible approach to this issue. That is why, Mr President, I believe such a discourse needs a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u69	And I believe that this violence is against the rules of procedure, so I am giving you a reminder. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm a little embarrassed to get into this argument, but it's good. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u71	Please be quiet so we can talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u72	No, no, even for content. Whatever. This crisis, which in fact has three dimensions, humanitarian, security and financial, also in view of the financial burden it may bear, cannot, in my view, be solved with less Europe, but only with more Europe. There is clearly a need for a uniform policy for those who have the right to international protection and for those who do not have the right to international protection. So, a single policy, both when accepting and when returning, and with everything to do with it, except in cases where certain countries are able to absorb economic emigrants. There is probably a need for very effective cooperation between members on these issues, with an up-to-date exchange of information between investigative authorities, police and intelligence services, and closer cooperation with third countries is absolutely essential. Certain programmes should therefore also be implemented in relation to countries through which or from which these flows are to be monitored, because it seems that several thousand people, including children and women, are crossing the green border between one country and another. What do you do? That's what it looks like in reality, and then the cops are facing it, and so on. I really hope, and I think that, indeed, the Foreign Minister and the President of the Government can also transfer to the European Council, which will begin tonight, this awareness that exists in Parliament and in Slovenia about the urgent coordinated functioning of the European Union in the face of a refugee or migrant crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u73	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Prepare a representative of the Government and a proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! I have been listening to this debate for the ninth hour because I also attended the morning session of the two committees, for foreign policy and for European affairs. The word discourse was used here several times. The discussions today were very different, but I know little about the discourse, because I have quite a bit of time, and I will take it in peace. Jani Möderndorfer said we should be careful what we say. That's right. We took these topics a little more seriously in this National Assembly somewhere after the end of parliamentary leave, let's say three weeks ago or maybe a little more. More, more. Five. That's when I said when colleague Dobovšek highlighted the role of NGOs so that politicians could learn something from them. At that meeting, it was very clear that there is one part of NGOs that knows the subject better than we do, which is also properly named. Mr Proposer initially spoke about terminology issues. Today, when I listened to this session, this morning's part, this part, the closed part, I somehow see that I'm back in charge of that crazy runt who's proposing stupid things. Somehow you didn't take me seriously. The debate went from a direction that one might call soft urbanisation, represented by Mr Gorenak, but does not misunderstand me, I would not like to be offensive, as he highlighted the whole aspect of important topics, similar to Mr Dobovšek. Whatever we think of both of you, whether you like them personally or not, here among us in the field of security are top experts with appropriate biography and bibliography. It was pointed out that we had some part of the closed session, where it was very quickly found that it was possible, except for one, two, two and a half data that were part of that report, somehow there was no need for this meeting to be closed, which one of the experts mentioned above also said. This is part of this approach, for example, how what we are saying calms a situation. This debate has gone a long way, it's talked about everything living, about how long we've been living, because we're in capitalism, although, by the way, the life span in Cuba is about the same as in America, I know that because I taught it. I'd focus a little bit more, but we still have to look at the situation. The last piece of news that our media has put out is that Slovakia has said it's blowing its whistle on quotas. We have a position that has been described very nicely by the President of the National Assembly, Comrade Milan, who is, after all, also an expert in this area, not to feel offended from a more international point of view. As I mentioned before, I'm getting a little nervous that this is the third time, the fourth time I repeat. They don't keep the Dublin commitment either. The European Union is currently in a certain stage of voting. I agree that we can say that we are Europe. Mr Battelli said "more Europe", perhaps some different Europe and such thinking. I sign under what the President of the National Assembly has said, "to demand" not just "to greet." When we read these points of view, how our representatives will behave in Brussels or where the story will take place, it always says in principle that Slovenia welcomes. Mark Ferruga can greet his old mother – I forgot yesterday that my brother has a birthday – and I hope that the lady is not all scared now and that she is enjoying her birthday, but somehow a little more serious. Europe is in a state as it is, and this is a challenge, for the third time I will say today, about some reflection, some active policy of the Republic of Slovenia. We can go to Olof Palme or someone else, when some relatively small countries at a historical moment similar to these could somehow change their minds and stand up. Slovenia will not destroy ISIS with a few pillatus, which we sell to them, by the way. You have all thanked each other, the other, the third, the fifth, and I think you have forgotten to thank NGOs and, above all, many citizens and citizens. Visa SDS, which, of course, I like as the United Left, is always a few years on us, because they probably take us as a serious player in this reference to the National Assembly, I must say the following. Many of our members and members and sympathizers have collected things as many citizens and citizens and have also worked on the ground, and most of them have not had and do not have time to do selfies and publish them today. I also agree with what the SDS Member said, although it may have been drawn by the ears, that, of course, citizens and citizens can play a role, but in the long term we cannot replace the system. We've got the Secretary of Defense on board, some non-military piece that has to deal with it more. The coalition, of course, defends everything and tries to show that everything works great, which of course is not true. I've got quite a few mail officers in the field myself, we know that we've had some problems, I don't care that here, as my students would say, I'm "beating" but from these mistakes we need to learn something. Like the entire European Union, we have underestimated this in our country. On the other hand, we must be honest about the fact that the existing so-called asylum policy, as I have said many times today, has been made for some other situation. This was also written by someone I highly appreciate, who is a great many lawyers, and I will not use the English term I have at the end of my language, mag. The culprit who said that many times happens that events somehow precede the law and the law must respond appropriately. It seems to me that we should go to correct the law in this direction, not what someone else suggested, as the chorus goes: First the army comes and then the Loyzka. This is an active role to play, both reflection in this national assembly and, of course, amendment of some legislation. Europe is not currently united, it is a problem with broader dimensions. It doesn't surprise me, but it saddens me that I am more easily discussing this subject with an English lady who is now in House of Lords and has the title Baroness, who was here in the National Assembly, than with the good work of the National Assembly. I agree with her as much as I agree with her, as Dr Mastnak has very plastically described, and I repeat that this is a matter that we are talking about in politics. This is a matter that needs to be resolved politically. Of course, Slovenia is a relatively small player in the global physiognomy of social power, which does not mean that it is an insignificant nodule player, as this government has played in the European Union recently. This should be brought to the fore. It is necessary to connect both within the European Union and with others, if you want, stakeholders, countries and to seek the political solution to this problem that we have, and especially to stop scaring people. I was born on one border, living on the other border. In Maribor, for example, a lot of people called me about how they would go to Austria now. I sent a letter to the Ministry, and I still haven't received an answer about it. I believe you have a lot of work to do, but I hope this answer somehow comes. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u75	Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think it would be right for the Government to be called upon earlier, not in the course of the meeting of the National Assembly. From the Government, which has three ministers here, except for Mr Erjavac, who explained something in the introduction, no one has been able to say anything, reply to nothing, it is difficult to expect any effective solution. That's part of the problem. However you share these reminders, you will not get away with it. The other thing is that I must remind you that you have acted extremely improperly because Mr Horvath, the representative of your parliamentary group, who gave false statements when he slandered and accused members of the Slovenian Democratic Party of causing various unrest and counter-national action, if I may say so, you have not even warned, because no discussion of my colleagues has gone in the direction that Mr Horvat was talking about. And when your colleague warned you about that, you gave her a cold cold warning. This is as far as conducting meetings of the National Assembly is concerned, inappropriate and unworthy. You can give a reminder today to all the government representatives who have come to sit down, half the cabinet, half the government is sitting here, and they are not discussing the key internal policy issue right now. In the meantime, you allow various slanders and accusations that are available to you by the professor of law, who should take special care and care that things follow some legal and, above all, ethical standards. Not you, as president, and not the others who hold the meeting, are the most often unable to do so. I would kindly ask that you have the same vats for all Members to allow everyone to say what they think, and that if you are already conducting the session, please note those who are discussing in disagreement with what has happened that they are not doing so. Mr. Horvath deserves to be expelled from the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u77	The word has been given to representatives of the government. Magus first. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, President. Already in the closed part of today's session, we agreed that safety is extremely important, that safety in addition to health is the element, the first part of human beings that is most important to people. However, today after this debate – I have listened very carefully and I am deliberately fitting in at this time – I note that we have missed one important moment in bringing migration closer to people. Migration is a modern fact. Migration has been and will, therefore, no debate, no government measure or physical force at the border will stop it because, historically speaking, migration takes place from less developed parts to more developed parts of the world, and so it will remain, but it is up to us to recognize new forms of migration and to adapt to this by making it easier for us to control them and not least to help people who flee their homes because their countries have not been able to secure their stay. Migration is also a security phenomenon. I agree that today's meeting is very important because migration changes the structure of society. Even in our society, we can expect new relations between our citizens, among our citizens, and among people, i.e. among immigrants, among those who will still come into our society and after successful integration, to remain. At the Ministry of the Interior in this segment, together with local communities and also with all the NGOs with which we are very creatively cooperating and informing them, we will make sure that we strengthen these people with those tools, which will also give them the feeling that they will belong to our society and that they can also be found in our society. At the Ministry of the Interior, we have repeatedly stressed that migration is also a security issue. That is why we have also been criticised in the past, but it is important to note here that migration is a complex phenomenon. All aspects, both economic, social, health and safety, should therefore be taken into account. It is also true that it is necessary to distinguish between economic migrants and refugees because the refugee is a person who gains status under the law. The Ministry of the Interior works in the role of the State, and I must stress here that the areas of work of the Ministry of the Interior and the discourse we are leading on this issue do not exclude humanitarian aspects of this issue, so that this sensitivity is still, but it is true that we are formally involved in all the procedures that the State envisages for the status to be granted to those people at the end of this period, as part of the broader asylum policy in which we are involved within the European Union. In my opening remarks, I stressed that today's meeting is extremely important. Once again, I stress that we have lost some very important potential to highlight the integrated dimension of migration, including security. In fact, I am disappointed that, at least in the first part of the session, the debate did not take place in the right direction, because it can be seen, after today's debate, that today's meeting is an introduction to tomorrow's interpretation, as some Members have found. Finally, this also raises questions only about its merits, because I believe that the only proceeds of tomorrow's interpolation could be that the Haradinaj police acted professionally and legally in the matter, as they must, of course. Given that I have also detected something, if I may say so, that I have failed attempts at personal discrimination, I will first respond in this respect, namely, to Member Gorenak. I always look forward to your performances, and I have somehow naively expected that you, as my predecessor, will be like someone who has performed the same function that I am currently performing, that credible mirror through which my work should actually be assessed, thus assessing the management of the Internal Affairs Department, which was entrusted to me at the time of taking over the mandate. The only clue I can draw from your debate is that, as a former minister, you actually tell me that I haven't been on TV three times a day, and you mentioned Mr Jelko Kacin. It's a good thing you didn't say I wasn't on TV three times a day in a sweatpants like him. You did not say that, but I do note that you do not, in essence, separate a political performance that is directed, which is a message that is not a mass one that does not comment on the day-to-day event anywhere, at any time, on any one, i.e. a message that belongs to the domain of the Minister of the Interior as a political entity, from the information to the public at the operational level carried out by the State Secretary, Boštjan Šefic, whom I have therefore expressly authorised. And it may not be appropriate for him to be my deputy every day at two press conferences, but we have decided that the situation is exceptional, that we want to tell people on a daily basis, that they are informed and that they know exactly where we are and, finally, what is the situation in the region and with us. This misunderstanding of yours is thus also reflected in the field of the distinguished Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Erjavac. You were also wondering what it was like with his group running it. This group is of a political nature. However, there is another group that you do not mention, and this is an operational group in the context of the Ministry of the Interior, also led by Mr Boštjan Šefic. But don't expect me as a political figure to lead the task force, talk to logistics, to suppliers, to contractors and to all the other entities. However, I think it is more important that I speak with Commissioner Avramopoulos, with the Minister of the Interior of Austria and with my other colleagues at the European level, with whom we are practically in daily contact and also informed. You mentioned fear. Some other Members also mentioned fear, but when they spoke of fear, they spoke in the right light. The fear that you mention, the fear of the people that you somehow attach to me, the fear among the people, the respectable Mr. Gorenak, you spread. Even with your performance today, when you have actually planned to create extraordinary situations that are not present in Slovenia at the moment, because we are very successfully facing the first emigrant wave, which the whole of Europe notes. I'm very proud of my coworkers at the Ministry, where we work all day and night, meet in the late hours of the night, and also the police, which is the organ in the composition that I direct and control. In fact, you have a very easy task because there is no area within the Ministry of the Interior that could not be scanned in the prism of existential fear. There is no area of MNZ that cannot be interpreted through fear, through threat, through panic, through emergency situations. You actually have a very easy task here, and no one can actually mate with you here. Even if someone 24 hours a day fits into live TV sets, unfortunately you can't mate here. If you're assessing my ministry performances on TV, then I really understand why the police were so stagnant at the time you were the minister, I'm sorry. Really, that's what I have to tell you. I mean, you led me to tell you this. You know. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I think we can finish here. And that's what I'd say to you that you're still abusing the police by talking when the police are successful, that it's a police success, when it's a failure, but that's my failure. That's not true. He's still the director of the police, he runs the police. That's it. But I am competent to direct it, to control it, to do it legally, professionally, and to do it consistently. That's it. The debate was very written today, and I also listened carefully from a professional point of view. I will answer only a few key points, which I believe are very important, because they are also spilling into the field of our citizens and their perceptions. Humanitarian corridors, which we often talk about in public. Slovenia sincerely hopes that all Member States of the European Union, especially at its external borders, will establish appropriate controls in accordance with the Schengen standards and also put in place appropriate procedures so that, in the future, there will be no need to interfere with such extraordinary measures as this one was ours when I decided to propose to the Government that temporary internal border controls be reinstated with Hungary. Humanitarian corridors do not exist, not under European legislation or under national legislation. If Slovenia were to do anything like this in this direction, it would in fact violate not only its legislation but also its European legislation. It is true, however, that it is always possible to give certain people to another country, if that country agrees. That is why we also pay a lot of attention to working with neighbouring countries, informing them and giving a signal that we respect legislation. At the same time, we do not want to create, by our conduct, some conditions that would then create emergency situations in neighbouring countries, so that these countries too will experience them in a way that makes sense and actually illegal solutions acceptable to us. As far as Frontex is concerned, Mr Gorenak also mentioned Frontex. You have probably forgotten because you have been outside the executive branch for a long time, but Frontex is actually operating on the EU's external border. We do not have this, there is the Schengen border, the EU's external border is not our border, but it is true that bilateral agreements are essential for us. But, as we know, Croatia is a very unreliable partner in this segment, we cannot count on it, it is not responding, and agreements on the implementation of common border control are also being put into question, which can also be a future problem in terms of the cooperation of our police, their police. In fact, we are very disappointed that Croatia has responded this way because we were expecting, because they also announced that Croatia will consistently respect the European acquis and its national legislation, but this has not happened. It is surprising that their official policy is that they are not hot spots and that they will actually target migrants against the Schengen countries while at the same time wanting to become a Schengen state. This is an incomprehensible paradox, which ultimately gives the signal that they are not able to keep external borders and that they are also unable to be solidarity with countries in the Schengen area, since the Schengen area, however, is based on interdependence, homogeneity, if one country does not respect it, is also a risk for another country. Today, it has also been said and mistakenly found that we do not take fingerprints. Here I must explain that the police have identified the identity on the basis of documents held by migrants and any person who illegally enters and fulfils the conditions of the Aliens Act, the police issue a detention decision. However, if the person does not have the documents, the information given by the person in the interview shall be recorded, the person shall also be photographed and then officially placed in the document and the decision shall be an individual act issued in a particular case to a specific person. As far as fingerprinting is concerned. In these proceedings, illegal migrants are not being fingerprinted because the Eurodac Regulation provides that fingerprints are to be taken for those who have entered illegally from third countries, which is not the case for us because Croatia is a Member State of the European Union and is not a third country, which is why this issue is not relevant in this segment at all. As far as further discussion is concerned. I must say that some clever things have been said, even very constructive, but a key breakthrough has been made by Member Breznik, who has actually indicated the direction in which this debate is to take place today. I am very sorry that this is not the way you have proposed from the very beginning, because the situation in which we are is very serious for anyone to collect any political points, because this is not a test by the Ministry of the Interior, it is a test by the whole country. If someone doesn't realize it, then I don't think they have anything to look for in politics. Slovenia has been preparing for migration for as long as you may think. We've been preparing for this since last year. We do not put our field of work in the perspective of media reporting, even if it may not be visible, we are working very hard and we have been preparing for this since last year. We have already warned in the National Assembly, on committees, on government, in Europe, where I am participating as Minister of Home Affairs. I must say that the Slovenian Ministry of the Interior has a very high reputation in the European Union, our word counts very much and we are also very active and also actively involved in the creation of a common asylum and migration policy. We have already warned about migration since the end of last year, which also means that both the ministry and the police have essentially done their fundamental duty, including in our work, to correctly predict what will happen. Already in May we started to prepare contingents a plan for applicants for international protection, I stress, for applicants, because not all applicants and the police have already prepared a plan of action for events at the border that have an impact on effective border management. This plan is implemented both at the national, regional and local levels, but, of course, additional measures in cooperation with all other authorities have also been summarised because of mass and preparation for one major dimension of this issue. In this story, as some of you have recognized today, Slovenia has acted proactively, which means that we have closely monitored the situation in the region and have also actually responded on the basis of the experiences that have been experienced in other countries. Slovenia therefore did not respond either as Hungary, which made a fundamental mistake in leaving the humanitarian problem to the police, nor as Croatia, which proved to be an incredible member of the European Union, which unfortunately we could not rely on. Slovenia adapted to the new phenomenon of migration for the first time in multitude, when we also prepared ourselves for this problem when I proposed to the Government to reintroduce internal border controls with Hungary, because we did not want an uncontrolled situation to arise along this channel that would make the security situation in Slovenia more difficult, and the European Commission has also confirmed it, which means that our interpretation of the Schengen Code is appropriate and correct at this time. We have also prepared for a new phenomenon of migration flows, namely mixed migration flows. For those of you who do not know these words, let me say that this means that in these flows it is not only the applicants that remain illegal migrants, but that they remain under the authority of the police, and then the police conduct procedures with them, while the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the applicants. In police procedures, however, it is essential whether a person can be returned or not. Those who can be returned return return to their countries of origin or transit, and those who do not, in fact, remain with us. This is the third category, which we have also paid a lot of attention to in the accommodation, and these are persons who illegally cross the border who do not want asylum with us and who cannot be removed from the countries of origin. To this point, the Ministry of the Interior has demonstrated that we have fulfilled our fundamental mission, that we have made sure that the procedures are humane, that they are decent, that people are settled and that we also in this spirit guarantee security for them as well as for us, because this is, after all, very important for the stability of our country and also actually affects the security image in the country. If you closely monitor the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior in a given situation, we also interpret solidarity substantially more broadly than in the humanitarian sense alone. This also means respect for Schengen and Dublin for us, because at this point Europe is facing a major test, and that is why we behave accordingly in Europe. On the one hand, we ensure that we respect the rules of European law consistently, while at the same time we are very creative in the search for new mechanisms to deal with the situation, because at this point it is clear that individual countries will not be able to dig up at national level from this problem, so it is essential that we find a common and coherent response. Slovenia respects national and European legislation, including migration legislation, the police protect the state border in accordance with Schengen standards, tighter control and registration, and we expect the same from all countries on the external border, in particular Croatia, which does not register people and, as has already been said, directs against the countries of the Schengen area. Consistency with the rules is essential at this time for security and, of course, for the better management of the situation within, and I can say that we are succeeding. The situation is under control, the security situation is good, of course, the police have taken action in any case, even within their regular public order and peace orders, when there were incidents. I have also made a public call to all those in the area where the police are carrying out their duties to comply with the orders and instructions of police officers who are intended to provide security. Of course, our police are a highly professional institution, which also follows Schengen law and regulations, without any discretion or will, aware of the importance of human rights, decent treatment, regardless of where people come from, what their country of origin is, in short, like the police must do according to the highest standards they have achieved in the field of human rights. The financial situation of the police was also mentioned. I think you all know that regulating the status of police officers and ensuring the proper conditions for police work are one of my commitments at the time I took over my mandate. It is true, however, that the cut is known that the police will receive additional funds, but I reiterate that I strongly oppose the doctrine that it is only at a time when the security situation is expected to deteriorate. It's a very harmful doctrine. The police need to be constantly invested, as the police are the key institution of the internal security system, and I have also warned about this immediately after the adoption of the mandate, i.e. at the end of last year, when the honourable Members of the Social Democratic Party even told me why I am saying this as a member of the government, but actually that is when my fight for the police began, and I will do so from the first day of taking over the mandate. At the time of the 2014 rebalancing, we received an additional 8 million euros for the police, over the year, so in 2015, I was able to provide the police with 12.5 additional million euros, and in 2016 we were able to agree on a deal with the government. I was also able to convince the Minister of Finance, and other ministers supported me because the government of Mira Cerar is aware of the importance of the police and is also aware of what an important task they are doing in our country. Additional appropriations in 2016 – EUR 37 million, in 2017 – EUR 30 million. I must say that I consider this to be a great success, and we will send such a budget to you in the National Assembly. I now leave the floor to my colleague, the Minister of Defence, who will highlight aspects of support for the security system of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u79	As previously announced, Mrs Andrej Katič, Minister of Defence, now has the floor. The motioner should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u80	President, thank you. The Ministry of Defence has been working closely with the Ministry of the Interior since the beginning, with the Slovenian police, both in preparing a contingent plan and in solving everything on the ground. On this occasion, as has been said in the closed part of the sitting, may I also express my gratitude, as well as the praises that you have expressed today, be passed on to all those involved in the civil protection system. If only we could shed some light on all the activities that have taken place in recent days. The activities of the administration and the organisations and societies in the field of protection, rescue and assistance began only with the establishment and then with the arrival of migrants. Since there was a great deal of television coverage, details do not need to be shown, perhaps just as far as organizational work is concerned. As early as 18 September, all the regional civil protection headquarters, the regional commanders, were activated, so that we were also prepared at the local level. On 20 September, when more migrants had already been seen to arrive in Slovenia, the Government decided to activate the Republic Civil Protection Staff, and so we began to carry out meaningful protection measures and protection, rescue and assistance tasks from the protection and rescue plans relating to the installation and care of the vulnerable population. Thus, the conditions for activating these protection and rescue plans were met. The objective of civil protection in this system is to provide improvised accommodation in temporary adjustment centres to establish an organisation of operations in these centres, to coordinate the involvement of all stakeholders, to organise reception and accommodation with competent authorities and organisations for migrants, to provide food and other basic life support, health care, protection and so on, as appropriate. The Slovenian Armed Forces are also involved, notably in the provision of logistical support, by providing transport facilities, in particular the transport of accommodation equipment, the preparation and distribution of food rations, field accommodation assistance, primary health care, including emergency vehicles for the transport of the sick, and other logistics facilities they have at their disposal. Until yesterday, there were about a thousand 320 members of the force for protection, rescue and assistance and 242 members of the Slovenian Army. Given that there have been many issues, particularly by the public, I have seen in all of this today only two direct questions concerning me, regarding the use of the Slovenian Army, I must say, as we have already stressed, that the Government has adopted a special decision. At this time, the Slovenian military only cooperates as logistical support through the Civil Protection Staff in everything directed by the Ministry of the Interior and the Slovenian police. Yesterday, I also visited the field because there was a lot of talk for Members and Members to visit the field. If you decide to do so, I suggest you do so when we do not yet do direct work to our field workers. If I only share with you the experience from Logatco, which has provided accommodation for over 300 people during this time, and then from Vrhnika, where we can install over 900 people, I must say that the response of people was very good. I was expected there by the mayor, I have a real response from the local community, as well as everyone involved in the local civil protection headquarters. They said that everything was well organized, that coming by bus to this accommodation center, where refugees or migrants were expected by a local translator, was possible at first a little reservation by refugees, how to approach, but after someone in their language presented them all together, this communication also went up. The rooms were ready. Since it is an accommodation center for families, for mothers with children, they were able to arrange for themselves where someone would live, that is, in which room their food was available, including warm meals. Here, too, it was possible, first on their side, a bit of reservations, but since the translator himself began to eat this food, then also refugees, migrants began to eat this food. It was also written in their language. Sanitary care was provided, by the social work centre, campers and the Red Cross, they asked each individual what they needed most, such as other shoes, clothes, baby carriages and the like. Health checks have also been carried out, complete health care has been organised, so there was no problem. Finally, when they left, the entire complex was cleaned and disinfected. The impressions when I asked individuals, including the campers, all those people who offered help, or anything was wrong, were commendable. Perhaps you would appreciate that, of course, there is some expectation, which is always present, in anticipation of an unknown but no fear. I think the Logatec is also an example of good practice, and if we let people create their own response on the basis of everything shown, they will be able to evaluate themselves and prove themselves to be humanitarian and solidarity. And I think this will be the case with Slovenia in the future. As regards the issue of the legal basis for the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which has been exposed. The Slovenian Armed Forces have provisions in the Defence Act and also in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army to cooperate with the police in the wider protection of the state border, but only in accordance with plans and prior approval of the Government, under the direction of the police, because they do not have police powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u81	The text is by the proposer, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u82	A nice welcome to all once again on behalf of the entire Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services! The subject before us today, which is on the agenda, has been decided unanimously by the decision of the Commission as a whole, and of course the content and the proposal for a decision presented today. All of them, regardless of the political parties represented on this committee, voted in favour. Therefore, I must say that one part of the debate here simply cannot be understood. One of the issues that has opened up and that might make things more transparent to the ordinary citizen who is accompanying us today is why one part of the meeting has been closed. Simply because at that meeting, when the government's services and representatives presented secret information, they did so in the framework of the confidence rate. I cannot then change this and all their statements, documentation and data just to be made public. It's not my right. I was able to do that for a conclusion, and I talked to him, and he didn't mind, but for the rest of the data, he didn't. But it is true, as we all note, that things are going extremely fast, much faster than even a few weeks ago those who predicted relatively fast developments were estimated. As a result of this, much of what has been written in a secret report is no longer secret because it has been published in such or otherwise in the past days in the media. As a rule in foreign countries, some of this is also in Slovenian. So much for secrecy. I must say, I am extremely disappointed at what a SMC professor did earlier when he began to say that there was some call for violence here and I don't know what else he hung. I had just one emergency phone and I jumped out for two minutes, so they told me what happened. I just don't get it. I've been here all day and I haven't heard one that doesn't say you don't have to help. This has been said by all, from the Government, from all political parties, from all those who have even spoken today, the question is only in what form. What we point out on the committee is that aid is effective if things are arranged where these people come from. That would be effective help. All those who focus should be directed there because you can spend the same amount of money on one family for one month and here one individual for one week in one hotel. That's already economically rational. They're closer to home. The problem with the aid is that it is necessary to establish areas that are actually safe and which would allow these people to return and at the same time revive their economy so that people can live a normal life worth living. This would be the only lasting solution to this problem that is obvious. Of course, we must not close our eyes. The problem will take some time. What's the biggest problem with this story is that the engine of what's going on isn't just war anymore. The engine that drives the crowds is unfortunately also money, as a matter of fact, more and more money. After all the foreign media you have already read, I do not know why in Slovenian so far I have not personally observed that the fact that these people have very much money to get even more along the way. Something, according to some information, they can infect themselves with systems that allow them to do so. But that is certainly not all, for some go to individual societies and so on and there get some lumps. Besides, someone pays them a trip that's terribly expensive. The movement of 100,000 refugees costs two billion euros, according to a calculation published publicly in many media, you also have it on the website of the United Nations. How's that made up? Approximately $10,000 costs the journey itself, about 5,000 get as a pocket from officially not fully verified sources and, as a rule, a slightly larger sum awaits them when they reach the goal. That's why it was also what you probably all saw on the Internet, that, say, in Greece, when they offered them free transportation, they preferred to take taxis. And things like that, there's a whole bunch of stories like this. That they found in individuals the incredible sums of money that were already beyond what you could possibly have on yourself. They got, say, 300,000 euros from a lady and so on and so on. There's a lot of these stories, too. In short, unfortunately, the old story repeats that if you want to figure out what the story's all about, you have to follow the money. Where did this money come from, what's really going on, and what does that mean? After all the indications that have been made public, I can refer to this as rich Arab countries. Those who do not want to accept any of the refugees themselves, who offer to build 200 mosques in Germany as aid, but do not provide any other form of assistance. That is why this problem is very big, so this problem will not be so short-lived. The wars will take a long time. This one in North Africa, if everything looks like it's going to stop very quickly, and that's where it's going to end. A peaceful, secure area will be established. The bigger problem is Syria, where great forces are faced and some estimates suggest that it will take several years. The Americans have written themselves for four years. Unfortunately, there is now a more or less official forecast that it can happen, that it will take longer, precisely because of the reason I am talking about, because the reason is no longer just war, but is the reason more and more, if it has not been the main reason all the time, money. This, of course, opens up the other dimension that we face today. If we have thus found that this is not a short-term event, that the event is very large on a time scale and that it can capture a very large number of people, that there are still a million, 500 000 of them are already on the move due to a few reckless statements from some of Germany, then of course we know that this problem will be increasing and therefore we need to face it responsibly and in the right way and help everyone and everyone by not doing any further harm to yourself. When this is decided, it is necessary to define the right concepts in the first place. This may seem irrelevant to someone, but it should be important for a professor who spoke earlier to think so, knowing that the proper use of concepts is the foundation of every science. In this case, however, it is all the more important, and he also knows this, because in the right definition of who it is, it also defines his procedure, his rights and his duties, which are different. We have a very different spectrum of people coming to us. This is what all official statistics show. There are actual refugees coming, those who, by international definition, come from an area, a country where their lives, freedom, all fundamental rights, either because of war or for other reasons, are in real danger. They're fugitives. However, if someone has lived in a neighbouring country, in some cases even a generation, such as those of Afghan origin, has already lived for one generation in Iran or have lived for years elsewhere, in another country, and then in a desire for better income, looking for a more peaceful place under the sun, it is perfectly legal and legitimate, but it is necessary to know that they are not refugees, but they are economic immigrants. Procedures and rights in both cases are completely different. Here is the problem in Europe because it did not at first respect the fundamental principle of intercultural dialogue, what we were talking about here in 2008. The ones you were with, remember well, there was only one message coming from here. Intercultural dialogue requires that things be named unconditionally and without exception with the right concept, with the right name. Here, the whole of Europe has problems. Then you read nonsense, like they found so many and so many refugees from Iran. Wait, what refugees from Iran? There is no war in Iran, and sanctions have now been lifted. Under no international law can refugees be. They could just be something else. But of course, that's what you play on people's feelings. People's feelings shape public opinion and public opinion has a reverse effect on policy decisions. Then Europe is in trouble. So it comes to what is the fundamental generator of what we have today in the debates so touched. It's an uneven Europe. This is shown in very different ways. On the one hand, in changing attitudes within the same countries, when these four days earlier one in the same country says that they should all come to open the doors, and in four days they say that the border has been closed, and then they stop all trains and all traffic. This is not how one Europe can function. That is why it is very important – I do not know what the result will be – we will see later – what message will go out today from the meeting of the Presidents of the governments of all the EU members who are meeting in Brussels today. If it is very clear, so that it will not further stimulate arrival, then it will be possible to make peace in part. But if there will be an additional call, such as yesterday's reckless statement by the German minister, that 500 000 more people are in need of the workforce, then a crowd will fall and the real one will not be faced by Germany, but by us. That's our problem, because we're the first country on the edge of Schengen. It would therefore be such an agreement and a uniform conduct in everyone's interest. What was our message was that we should insist that all the rules of the European Union are implemented consistently and without exception. Now is not the time for Europe to start changing all the rules on the ground, because these procedures are going on indefinitely, and things are here and now, happening. If the Schengen were to be implemented as defined, i.e. in all countries, without exception, such a problem would not be present at all, at least not as a security problem, that is for sure. But it's not being implemented. As a result, this becomes a security problem, an economic problem, a humanitarian problem, and in short, there are so many aspects that we have talked about today that it is already very difficult to list. But here again is the problem of a united Europe. It is a question of uniform, equal criteria within this same Europe. When it comes to reporting, which, of course, as I said, is how it also affects real policy. You've all seen one drowned child because all the media reported it. Awful. You tight-hearted. But you didn't see pictures of the headstrong little girls who were beheaded by Muslim fanatics in Syria. But you didn't see it anywhere because you couldn't. Believe me, at least it's so horrible, I think it's much more. You haven't seen the hanged little boys. I'm afraid this happened only because their parents were Christians, but then Europe kept silent, stood still and did nothing. Europe has largely fallen to the test when it comes to the same criteria for everyone and is facing problems today, and that is why we are talking here today. This is the first thing we should do when we talk about this issue. In short, it must be achieved that they are the same criteria for all. To help those and the way they need it. It doesn't make any sense that I don't know what kind of charity action is being done for those of the migrants who have a lot of money. Then it is necessary to help people in Slovenia who do not have a life worth living for. Where's the solidarity now? But they've been forgotten. We have a lot of problems here and now. And the same is true for all of Europe, because it is not only the characteristic of Slovenia. When it comes to security issues, the situation is even worse because security is extremely fragile. Security in Slovenia is at an envious level. There are few countries in the world, believe which are as safe as Slovenia, that you can go anywhere at any time practically, and don't worry about anything happening to you. Most countries have ghettos, slums, where God doesn't let you go, especially in the nighttime hours, because there's practically no police force out there except Special Forces. This is not the case in Slovenia for once. There are many other things in Slovenia that are not typical. I say that in situations like these in some other very well-known countries, such as some areas in the United States, we are not at all able to live because we do not imagine. For us, security is so self-evident that we do not realize how fragile that value is. It's like health, you only lose it once, and you realize what you've lost, only after you've lost. As a result, the element of the security issue, contrary to what some have said, must be taken into account when dealing with every issue. Especially since the Schengen has fallen, the Schengen is no longer actually implemented in the way it was defined. Schengen is a wonderful thing, it allows a free trip from the country to the country, the border is no longer. But what does it mean that the Schengen has fallen? What does it mean that interstate solidarity has died? And I'm not talking about the one to the fugitives right now. I'm talking about something else. Europe is also based on the principle of free labour exchange, the free labour market. If Germany needs so many and so many thousands of workers, why not send a bus to a country in the European Union where they are unemployed and take them there, there will be no security problems and all European regulations will be consistently respected. Such a tactic as it has now taken, when one door opens, no one knows who is coming, when the rules adopted unanimously within the European Union, with the Schengens at the head, have been forgotten, of course, a huge security risk. Then what's taking such a risk? You can see that. If all the rules are not consistently implemented at the external borders of the European Union as required, borders will close between individual countries of the European Union and walls, future wires, will begin to grow within the European Union. Don't say it's Utopia. That's what's going on. Between Croatia and Hungary, which are both members of the European Union, a wall is built from a barbed wire. Is this the European Union we want? I hope no one wants anything like that. As a result, these things need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner and be aware of all the dimensions of this problem, and above all, we need to be patient and listen very well to one another. There is also the problem that, in the last period in Slovenia, there has been a lot of distortion of each other's freedom of expression, not only that they are suddenly closed blogs on some sides, but also on some sides. For the last time, two of them on the steps of the church just stood with one poster, that Europe is based on Christianity, which is true, which is an indisputable fact and has been mediated by the police. That's what you're saying. It's a problem if someone tells the truth. This is not a good sign of freedom of expression in these circumstances. Because then you can't really talk about a lot of things. Then someone tells you that it's important to take into account the element of security, says you're calling for violence. Who was really the only one who caused the violence? The left-wing extremists who have provoked down at the border who have acted against our own police, ladies and gentlemen, whom you should first support and who can be immensely grateful that they have maintained order in the country with such extreme efforts. When he was against one of them, against the Slovenes, of course, that there would be no misunderstanding used by the tear gas, someone from here sent to the Bild information which Bild uncritically published that a tear gas had been used in Slovenia against the refugee children. Then, on my own website, in Germany, as far as they were open, I tried to explain that it wasn't true at all, that it was total stupidity. That's the problem. As such, security has now become a big question, for no one knows who is coming. You all know, this has been published publicly that Syrian passports are traded, that a lot of people come without relevant documents, which means that, according to Schengen regulations, they should have been rejected long ago at the Greek border or wherever they try to enter the Schengen area. Then absurd things happen, such as when everyone was disgusted, when a journalist tripped a football coach in Hungary, and then he was accepted with a pump in Spain, and Ronaldo accepted him, and then they announced that he was actually a man with about 50 people on his conscience because he was connected to Al-Qaeda. If this happens once, it is very bad, and the problem is that there are many such cases. I hope you're following the Internet a little bit. These cases were recently, however, when the principles of control began to deteriorate a little bit, so there was little beginning to establish the principles of Schengen back, which must be self-explanatory, which were binding on everyone, went into dozens when it was discovered that there were also people with false arguments associated with such or other terrorist cells. The French and Spanish Secret Service have made public, I think about 10 days ago, that they lost control and that they estimate there are about 800 terrorists in the territory of these two countries, but that they don't even know where anyone is or what they're doing because they just lost control because it's just too many and they can't follow and they can't follow anymore. If that happens, it's a big alarm. How many of them are out there? Nobody knows. It was an interesting warning the last time that was also made public, so we can speak about it publicly, which was given by the Minister of Education of the State of Lebanon when he visited James Cameron. When leaving, where a person would say that if he wanted to be selfish, he would be quiet, he would have given the cameras the following warning that, according to the warnings of their services operating within the camps, about 2% of men are already radicalized and associated with ISIS, Al-Qaida or similar organisations. However, for those who are on their way to Europe, this number is expected to be even higher, and this is said to be greater than the average. This information, of course, warns that the matter is serious, that it is not some kind of illusion, but that it must be taken very seriously, because it can permanently endanger peace and security in Europe. Therefore, Schengen should be implemented. No one is saying that anything should be done differently; only Europe should respect its own rules, people of God, but that is the truth, but not them. That is why today we are in a situation where we need to take care of our own safety in the best possible way and to apply as little as possible to anyone else. Of course, it is necessary to cooperate with the neighbours, of course it is necessary to participate in the European Union, of course it is necessary to try everything to reach agreement, that is the task now of foreign policy, and that this consensus is then actually implemented. But we need to lean on and rely on ourselves. This means that policies will need to be changed in order to provide more money for all those who provide security. At the moment, we all know that the sub-total representation of the police, who currently employs only 70 % of the Schengen standard. It is even worse in the military according to the standards and international commitments adopted by Slovenia. Similarly with reserves, both the police and the military, it is the same or worse in services that provide back-up security. All of this will have to be spent more money. More money will undoubtedly also have to be spent on civil protection, because now that we all thank the police, the military, all those who have done their jobs in these days with extreme efforts, because they are too few, it is necessary to know that this will be a long time. Relying on the fact that the same volunteers will be able to sacrifice themselves for years and years, but will not work, so it will be necessary to establish appropriate mechanisms differently, so that they will be able to compensate for any problem at any time if they arise. These things, of course, need to be prepared further, for now is the time. It was just an overture, or it wasn't even an overture. More people will, the more countries will shut down, the greater the pressure on Slovenia, the more we will have to rely on ourselves. This means that adequate resources will have to be made available for this. Unfortunately, the situation is that after twenty-five years we will face for the first time in Slovenia alone the fact that we are actually facing one security challenge, which requires very serious and appropriate treatment. That is why we have also proposed in the Commission a decision to fully support the report, because its constituent part is that message, which is a political decision, an expression of will, today and here. I hope that it will be adopted unanimously, as it has been on the Commission, and that more money must be spent on security to establish services so that they will not be overloaded, that people will no longer work after 26 hours together, as has now been the case, in order to provide sufficient reserves for the simultaneous arrival of more people. Thus, in no case and in no way will security be compromised in Slovenia. To preserve the value that is so self-evident in Slovenia, but believe that it is not, it is a security value. With the message I started, let me finish. Safety is like health — knowing what we have lost, only when we lose it. The situation here is now such that some security challenge is already ahead of us, already present and it is fundamental human values.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Izredna-19.ana.u83	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, we have 11 minutes left, I ask whether, under Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly took note of and supports the Commission's report on the security aspects identified by the current refugee crisis and illegal migration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that in 15 minutes we will resume the 11th regular meeting of the National Assembly, which is at 5.35 p.m.
