ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the seventh session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Bojana Muršić, Mrs Marija Bačić, Violeta Tomić from 18:00 on, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Matjaž Germany, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Andrej Čus, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Mr Jožef Horvat from 15.30 p.m., Mrs Vesna Vervega to 12 noon, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc to 13 p.m., Mrs Andreja Potočnik and Dr Bojan Dobovšek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 16. This is for the purposes of proposing a decision on the determination of a parliamentary investigation for the modification of the law and for other decisions of the public body on the basis of the State, to participate in the supervision of the Slovenian banking system and in the case of indirect or indirect influence by public authorities through public authorities, through public authorities and regulators of decisions in the Slovenian banking system. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, the Group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank submitted a proposal for parliamentary inquiry. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled a proposal to determine the parliamentary investigation into the suspicion of abuse and control of the Slovenian banking system. We have tabled this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party for several reasons. The fact is that the Slovenian banking system from the transition countries was the only one that we have already rescued twice by taxpayers. We cannot go beyond the fact that the same parliamentary inquiry has been determined in the previous term, which, due to the early elections, has ended automatically with its work. Since the investigative parliamentary commission has not completed its work in the previous term, we are confident that the same commission should be established in the new mandate, which will continue to do so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the responsibility for the situation must be established. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose an investigation period from 1997 to today. Why have we decided for the period since 1997? The main reason was that the first rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system was successfully completed in 1996. At the end of 1996, we also rehabilitated the banking system and at the end of 1996 the banking system became healthy. Two key objectives of the first resolution of the banking system were the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank and the operational restructuring of the banking system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that none of these objectives or conditions have been met. These are the key reasons why we have proposed a period since 1997. It is necessary to identify the responsibility and reasons why the privatisation of the two largest Slovenian banks, the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank has not been done according to the plan or the objectives they set at the end of the first resolution of the banking system. There is no doubt, however, that we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the second objective has not been met, namely the operational restructuring of the banking system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the Parliamentary Commission identify the key issues set out in the 13 points. In particular, point 1 identifies the possible liability of the supervisor of the Slovenian Bank of Slovenia’s Slovenian banking system for the situation in the Slovenian banking system, in particular for the multi-hundred-million-dollar losses of Slovenian banks caused by the write-offs of loans that were largely poorly insured or uninsured; and the losses resulting from the transfer of claims to the Bank’s Claims Management Company. 2nd point, determines the total amount of loans approved by banks since 1997, banks owned by a majority, directly or indirectly – Nova Ljubljanska banka, Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, Banka and Banka Celje and their subsidiaries or companies in the group. 3rd point, the investigation of credits that were classified as class D or E on the date of the commission of inquiry or cancelled or transferred to DUTB. It shall determine the total amount of credits and bank guarantees and all credits and all bank guarantees by individual committees, which are either silent companies or silent shareholders and which are from 1. 1. The Bank, Nova Kredittna banka Maribor, Banka Celje and Nova Ljubljanska banka approved 1997 until the date of the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry. Point 4 shall determine whether the banks in majority state ownership and their subsidiaries or companies in the group have respected and implemented the applicable laws and regulations in the authorisation and management of credits and bank guarantees referred to in points 2 and 3 of this requirement. Point 5, determine or clarify the lending policy of banks held by a majority of the state. 6th point, determine who were the persons responsible or who approved the loans and bank guarantees referred to in points 2 and 3 of this requirement. The parliamentary inquiry should identify the roles and responsibilities of the members of the administrations, the supervisory boards and other responsible persons in approving these loans. 7. determine how and in what way the majority state-owned banks and their subsidiaries or companies in the group bear losses on write-offs and reservations. The parliamentary inquiry should determine whether this results in the collection of unusually high interest on credit and unusually high fees for banking services, and make a comparison with the branches of foreign banks in Slovenia. Point 8 shall determine the amount of the disputed lending, the issue of bank guarantees. Point 9, identify the reasons or clarify why, after the first resolution of the Slovenian banking system, the planned privatisation of banks did not occur and determine the responsibility of the members of the Government for failure to implement it. A programme for the sale of state-owned and real-estate assets for 2001 adopted by the Government together with a proposal for a State budget for 2001. Point 10 sets out the reasons for the compulsory liquidation of Probanke d.d., and Factor Banka d.d., and assesses the relevance and cost-effectiveness of the measures for the compulsory liquidation of Probanke d.d., and Factor Bank in particular with regard to the consumption of tax money. Establish the role and responsibility of members of governments and governors and vice-governors of Banka Slovenije from 1997 onwards, so that the Slovenian banking system had to be restored for the second time at the end of 2013. Assess the implementation of the asset quality review and the implementation of stress tests for the representative part of the banking system requested by the European Commission on the basis of the recommendations of the European Council issued on 29 May 2013. Compares the second rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system with the rehabilitation of banking systems in other European countries, here we have in mind two countries, namely Spain and Ireland, which were implemented in 2008 – the global financial and economic crisis. It is also an important fact, at least this is what we think in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that it is important that this commission of inquiry be confirmed. The difference between the Commission of Inquiry, which was active in the previous mandate, is that this Commission of Inquiry also identifies all the details, the correctness of the second resolution of the Slovenian banking system, which cost taxpayers more than EUR 5 billion. In the last period we have listened to a bunch of readings at the expense of the second recovery; and that the parliamentary investigation is trying to determine above all the correctness, prudence, economy and legality of this second recovery. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect all the political parties involved in this national assembly to be aware of your responsibilities. And given all your promises from the pre-election programme and also now that it is in your interest to reach the bottom or to determine not only the consequences of the resolution of the banking system, but also the reasons and responsibility in particular; to follow the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party and to support this investigative committee in today's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u3	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In opening, let me say that the Members of our parliamentary group, namely the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, have signed their signatures to the Proposal for a Decision authorising a parliamentary inquiry into irregularities and illegality in the Slovenian banking system. Why such a decision? In the last few years, a third rehabilitation of the banking system has been carried out. The last recovery in the pre-Last and last year cost us, the taxpayers, about €5 billion. This is the amount representing as much as half of the annual expenditure of the entire national budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This money, i.e. this 5 billion state budget for the payment of the bank hole, did not have to be borrowed in international markets at expensive interest rates. The taxpayers will have to pay back this borrowed money; and, of course, interest in addition to the principal. We literally gave money to banks because we didn't become shareholders. And without the banks being required to repay the money invested, as some other Member States of the European Union have done, which also faced a banking crisis, which means that taxpayers will have a lower standard at the expense of the resolution of the banking system. Debt will not only burden us, our generation, but also a few generations to come. Why was there even a so-called bank hole? In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are convinced that the bank hole in Slovenia has been created to a lesser extent as a result of the global financial crisis; or, in most cases, as a result of large incompetences, irregularities, illegal work and, we can say, corrupt and criminal activities of our elites – banking, economic and political. Who bears the burden of the situation in Slovenian banking? Let me point out once again that we have put the bank inquiry account, which is the result of an incorrect, ineffective and also illegal work in banking, in which I refer to administrations and supervisory councils, to taxpayers – and not to decision makers. Is it fair and lawful that taxpayers are those who have the consequences of bad and illegal decisions made by decision makers, members of administrations and supervisors in banks? In the opinion of us Christian Democrats, by no means. Members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of banks, on the basis of the rules already in force, are responsible for their decisions with all their assets. It is on the part of the current banks' administrations that this responsibility is also exercised by former members of the administrations and supervisors in judicial proceedings. The taxpayers did not, we had no influence, and it is not fair that we - taxpayers bear the consequences of wrong and illegal decisions. In Novi Slovenija, we have high expectations of determining the criminal and material liability of members of administrations and supervisory councils from law enforcement, law enforcement and judicial authorities. We really want them to do their work within their competences, quickly and effectively. However, if we listen to the Special Prosecutor's Office, we can only expect the first convictions in banking crime to be received after 10 or 15 years. Ladies and gentlemen, so never. Never! In the meantime, all crimes will be obsolete, responsible members of the administrations and supervisory boards will grow old and become sick or withdraw in time to a secure place before the time of justice. What was the role of the bank supervisor? In our view, therefore, in the view of the Christian Democrats, the Bank of Slovenia has not done its role of control over business banks as it should. Up to a few months before the start of the Bank's rehabilitation, we remember that at the end of 2013 we listened to the confirmation of the then Governor of Banka Slovenije, including his associates, that we have a sound and reliable banking system and that there are no grounds for concern. Then three months go by, and a few billion-dollar bank hole is found. On the home work body, the vice-governor explained that Banka Slovenije had previously submitted several calls for recapitalisation to those banks involved in the rehabilitation process. Why did not Banka Slovenije inform the National Assembly about these calls and the situation in banks owned by the majority of the state? Why did Banka Slovenije deceive the National Assembly that the banking system is solid? Who's responsible for this? We parliamentarians certainly did not, since, apart from the lack of and also the misleading annual reports of the Bank of Slovenia, we had no opportunity to familiarise ourselves with the situation in banking. Why? Because of the so-called bank secrecy. Also the previous commission, which a colleague of mags has been talking about. Pogačnik, in fact, did not receive any data to be able to carry out her parliamentary investigative work. Representatives from the so-called banking bed also told us that Members are doing stupid things we are doing; looking for the names and names of the bank hole drillers. They told us it was nonsense and that the bank hole was caused by a natural disaster. How can we bear this and appease our taxpayers, who live poorly because of the bank hole and will live poorly for the next generation. Next question. Which banks were granted rehabilitation or recapitalisation with taxpayers’ money? Several banks were recapitalised, mainly owned by NLB, NKBM, Abanka, Banka Celje and two private banks – Probanka and Factor Banka. In Novi Slovenije, we have always opposed the fact that all banks, regardless of their public interest, are being rehabilitated by state aid. The European Central Bank pointed out in its opinion on the proposed amendment to the Banking Act 2013 that the same principle could not be implemented. In the specific comments of the opinion cited above, it wrote: "If the resolution authority finds that public interest is not threatened, the institution should cease following the normal insolvency procedures applicable to such institutions under national law." This means that the rehabilitation or termination of smaller banks must not be carried out by state-owned banks, this is tax money. According to Nova Slovenije, the decision of Banka Slovenije on the controlled liquidation of two smaller private banks, Factor Bank and Probanke was contrary to our national legislation and also contrary to European regulations. Both banks were not only insolvent but also insolvent, which was clear at the time of the decision to carry out the controlled liquidation of both banks. Their termination should be carried out through bankruptcy and not through controlled liquidation. The supervised liquidation of both banks required over 400 million taxpayers’ money. How is the adequacy of the amount of funds to recapitalise Slovenian banks? At the request of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was convened a month ago on the subject of the appropriateness of the entry parameters in the methodology for assessing claims in stress tests. In the case of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, this bank has itself estimated capital to EUR 835 million, and stress tests have targeted it minus EUR 318 million. The difference is only with the New Ljubljana Bank over a billion euros. As a result, the question arises whether the Bank of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the European Commission, has challenged the entry parameters of stress tests and the use of a negative scenario to determine the necessary capital in banks and a range of other dilemmas. Are our state-owned banks cleared of bad claims after the establishment of a bad bank? This is a question that we will probably have on the table for quite some time, and in this regard, I'm afraid, many times more headaches. The answer is no. Not all bad claims have been transferred to the bad bank or some 4 billion bad credits remain in the so-called now rehabilitated banks, which can be converted into a new bank hole tomorrow. That is why all the debates and concrete decisions in the National Assembly and on our committees are needed. Of course, Christian Democrats wonder whether this is already a forecast for a new bank hole. In our opinion – yes; unless we accelerate the privatisation of state-owned banks. This is, in our opinion, a key and, in fact, the only real solution. This is just a few questions and a dilemma that indicates the need for a parliamentary inquiry to be supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u5	The word shall be given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, on her behalf, Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u6	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Two days ago, we discussed a proposal for a new Banking Act, which required banks receiving State aid to disclose bank secrecy to the National Assembly, its working bodies or its investigative commissions. Four hours of discussion was devoted to my very surprised conclusions mainly by the proposalers that without this information Members cannot adopt effective legislation that would prevent any new banking recovery needs in the future. I don't think that's the best thing for me. On the one hand, we have Banka Slovenije, which supervises the Slovenian financial system, which creates and implements the conditions for a stable banking system, for the successful operation of banks and for the security of deposits in banks and savings banks. However, the purpose of this control is to review the entire operation of the Bank of Slovenia in each bank under the jurisdiction of the Bank of Slovenia during a three-year period and to carry out at least one review in the bank each year. An important component of the regular comprehensive supervision of banks is the annual reviews and assessment of the risks and size of the bank capital in the banking system. This supervisory review and evaluation shall aim to assess the risks and quality of the supervisory environment in the bank, to review and evaluate its assessment of the relevant internal capital and to comply with the credit standards laid down by the Banking Act and the relevant sub-legislative rules. Banka Slovenije assesses risk at bank level and system level. The annual supervisory review and risk and capital assessment by banks also result in an analysis and assessment of the importance of key risks and trends in their development, reduction or growth across the banking system. Your Honor! In the Alliance Group we understand that Banka Slovenije is the one responsible for the stability of Slovenian banking and financial space. Not the National Assembly and not the Members of the National Assembly – but the Bank of Slovenia, it was also established. Surveillance, as I explained, is one of her core tasks. The National Assembly has completely different tasks and functions. Recently, in an interview with Vice-Governor Dr. Mejra Festic, she answered the question of responsibility for the situation that everyone in the chain is carrying their share of the responsibility. Everybody! One part of the responsibility is certainly attributed to the global financial and economic crisis, but a large part of the responsibility is borne by the owners of banks and companies that appoint administrations and supervisory councils. Responsibilities can also be sought from supervisors when the control mechanisms may fail or those of a purely fiscal nature may be delayed. Although I could still talk about the reasons that led to the banking crisis, the reasons that ultimately led to the five billion-dollar recovery of the banking system, I certainly cannot say or conclude that banking secrecy is the one that has led to poor or incomplete legislation that has led to this crisis. The removal of banking secrecy, as presented above, will in no way contribute to better legislation. Members, who were also in the previous reference, remember that the parliamentary investigative commission on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system has already worked. The definition of the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry that we have on the table today is similar to that of that time. And although the commission of inquiry did not complete its work because of the early elections, at least not in the way it did, we can still draw some conclusions or lessons from it. For example, we have learned that if we want a successful investigative commission, we need to know very precisely how to define the investigative problem. There is also a period to be covered by the investigation. I would say that it would be more appropriate to follow the principle here — less. It is not clear to me why the investigation has changed significantly since 1997 when we know that the regulation of powers and the international environment has changed significantly with Slovenia's entry into the European Union. I would also like to ask the questions to be such that they will only prevent leakages and various lectures on the basics of banking and so on. All of this can be learned today; the question is whether we have really learned it. We would also like to draw attention to the work of the investigative commission, which operates under the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia, and in addition to the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, the members of the police and the prosecution participate. We would certainly not want the state-level commission of inquiry to jeopardize the work of these investigative bodies investigating crimes and not necessarily seeking political responsibility. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance will support the Proposal for a Decision authorising a parliamentary inquiry to amend the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and for the determination and assessment of the actual situation for the determination of the political responsibility of public function holders on the suspicion that they have participated in the control of the Slovenian banking system and in the direct or direct impact through State ownership or through state authorities and regulators on decisions in the Slovenian banking system concerning the granting of write-offs, cash guarantees, credit policies and the transfer of bad claims on a specific company for the management of bank receivables and compliance with the applicable laws and regulations on the approval and management of credits and bank guarantees and the suspicion that there have been undetected negative consequences of such behaviours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u7	The word shall be given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, in its name mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u8	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, what a lovely greeting! Two opposition parliamentary parties and a Member of the Italian Nationality Minority, a total of 27 Members, have tabled a proposal to make a parliamentary inquiry on a very long topic. In a few words, it would mean – a $5 billion payment of the taxpayer’s money to recapitalise state-owned banks. In the light of the number of candidates of Members, the applicable business provision provides that in this case each parliamentary group may require that there be a proportionate number of members and their alternates in the commission of inquiry. This proposal for a commission of inquiry is somehow repeating the work of the Commission of Inquiry, which was established in the previous term. However, she could not complete her work, as was said by the proposer. In the SMC Group, we are aware that the bank hole must be found responsible for its creation; therefore, the coalition in the coalition agreement on the investigation of the bank hole and the definition of liability has already stated that in order to ensure the recovery of confidence in financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the legal institution, responsibility for the bank hole has to be determined and the compensation and liability of members of the administrations and supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks is required. On the basis of the information provided by the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia at the national working body of the National Assembly two months ago, activities having the nature of the forecasting procedures are already under way. This means, in accordance with the applicable legislation, determining the compensation and material liability of individuals who have caused the recapitalisation of state-owned banks. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also preparing a law on investigative audits of major investment state projects in order to prevent and identify the competent and financial abuses. It is envisaged that in 2015 a law will be adopted and that it will have a positive impact on the stability and effectiveness of the financial system of the State or on the implementation of the State budget. As an example, I cite – the construction of the block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostanyj, and in this case also bank holes. The main solution to the bill proposal will be to provide a legal basis for the coordinated functioning of existing supervisory and investigative bodies with the possibility of establishing a special commission of inquiry whose powers and powers will be legally prescribed. The results of such investigations will provide each time the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the necessary and credible information for the decision to continue implementing, financing the participation or investment or taking over the investment obligation of the State. The results will also be useful to identify the responsibilities of legal or natural persons involved in these projects. In the SMC Group, we estimate that such a law only adds to the possibility of active involvement in the investigation of bad state projects as well as so-called financial gaps. With regard to the proposal of the Commission of Inquiry, it is understandable that the proposed Commission of Inquiry has been set up by Members of Parliament with a similar content in the previous mandate. In relation to this or such a commission, it should be made clear and clear that the Law and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry provide for the identification of solely the political responsibility of the holders of public powers. Therefore, the SMC Group insists that all activities are carried out in accordance with the constitutional principle that the Republic of Slovenia is a rule of law. This means the intensity of the forecasting and further criminal proceedings against persons who are in any way related to the subject matter of this investigation. As early as 2010, the Commission of Inquiry was set up to determine the political responsibility of public function holders because of the suspicion that they were involved in financing the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško by banks or credit institutions in the main state ownership. These credit institutions are NLB and NKBM in order to abuse their political impact on lending to members of the management bodies of those companies and associated legal and natural persons. In the SMC Group, we believe that today's proposal to set up an investigative commission is a logical continuation of the detection of abuses by holders of public powers through the legislative branch of government. The proposal of the Commission of Inquiry is complex and includes the investigation of credits classified in group D and E and all write-offs. It is said that bad claims from recapitalised banks will be investigated. Bank guarantees granted by these banks are also to be noted. The investigation is also intended to contain all the bad loans or claims that have been and will be transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company. Furthermore, it should also be the subject of an investigation to determine the role and responsibilities of the competent supervisory institutions of the owners of state banks and the responsibilities of the holders of public functions, which, if any, have affected the granting of loans to contested management acquisitions. In doing so, it must not be exempt from the other contributors, who have indirectly or directly contributed to a poor financial situation, such as auditors, audit firms, value assessors and the like. The investigation is to investigate the period from 1997 to the date of the parliamentary investigation on the basis of this proposal. We can certainly see that there is a very long investigation period for the proposed investigative commission. We do not object to the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. We believe that all levers must be used to investigate the emergence of a five billion-dollar recapitalisation or the rehabilitation of state banks. Of course, we see a parliamentary investigation, as already said, of parallel activity in the functioning of law enforcement and judicial authorities. For this reason, the SMC Group will support the parliamentary investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to begin with the opening of the coalition treaty of the ruling coalition. It says: "In recent years Slovenia has become too much a society where the positive foundations of social integration are falling apart and is therefore without perspective, a society of mistrust and manipulation. A society where man is no longer a goal and a value, but often only a means of those who are led primarily by greed for power and money." Greed for power and, above all, money is also one of the important reasons why we are today discussing the bank hole, which cost each of us EUR 2 000 500. And it is precisely this break with these bad practices from the past that requires this call from the National Assembly to carry out a thorough study and the story of the bank hole, as far as Parliament is concerned, is at the bottom. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party has drawn up a proposal for an investigative commission in which we have tackled the most pressing problems affecting the determination of responsibility for the bank hole. Let me stress just a few of them. By setting up an investigative commission in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to determine whether the Bank of Slovenia has taken appropriate action during the pre-crisis period and determine the possible responsibility of the supervisor of the Slovenian banking system. We have heard before that the Bank of Slovenia is responsible and the only one responsible for the stability of the banking system. But as we have learned on the face of the city, it does so for our money – for 5 billion euros. And when it does so for our money and it comes to this cost, we can reasonably suspect that it does not carry out its tasks as we would like and as legislation imposes on it. We also want to know whether the banks have respected the laws and regulations governing credit. Why? If they are not, then responsibility must be demanded. But if they are, it is our job to adapt the legislation and amend the sectoral laws. We also want to identify and clarify the lending policy of banks in majority state ownership. If there is a 5 billion high bank hole and we are facing 4.1 billion additional bad loans, it is likely that it is time for Members to get acquainted with the lending policy of banks that are either way owned by us. In addition, the parliamentary investigation should establish the responsibility of the members of the boards, supervisory boards and other responsible persons to approve these loans. The rakrana of Slovenian society, but not only in banking, including in other social systems and subsystems, is that no one ever answers. And with errors detected, taxpayers always pay. The purpose of this appeal to Parliament, as well as to all who have the appropriate levers of power in their hands, is to put an end to it. And that is why we want to identify the role and responsibility of the members of the governments and the governors and vice-governors of the Bank of Slovenia since 1996, i.e. since the last resolution of the banking system; with a simple explanation that a different approach is necessary if we do not want to rehabilitate the banks for the third time. It is true that the mandate of this commission of inquiry is very extensive and therefore requires a very large and in-depth work. In an interview, I think the President of Parliament has announced that this coalition will last for 12 years anyway, so I think that time is more than enough. To conclude, let me only remind you of the commitments made in the coalition agreement regarding the identification of the bank hole. Allow me, a respected coalition, to quote: "In order to ensure a return of confidence in financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the rule of law institutions, it is necessary to define responsibility for the resulting bank hole and to require the compensation and liability of members of administrations and supervisory boards of recapitalised banks." Respectable, correctional exam for the lost 5 billion and, I am afraid, even the lost decade of economic development in Slovenia is missing. However, we have the opportunity to actively participate in detecting bad practices, identifying those responsible; and we are helping those responsible for this lost decade to get ahead of justice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is one of the main highlights of our programme. For the coalition, this is one of the main points in the introduction of the Coalition Treaty. That is why I believe that today we will set up this commission of inquiry to establish it in good faith and without a fig in our pocket and that we will now actively pursue the search for the reasons and culprits for this bank robbery for the decade; with the main aim of not repeating similar stories in Slovenia.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franz Jurša, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It appears that during this term of office we will also have an investigative commission dealing with the Slovenian banking system. Our legislation states that the real purpose and purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to identify and disclose the actual state of play in matters of public interest, which will be the basis for decisions in Parliament. Everything's fine and fine. However, in the parliamentary group I belong to, we are aware that the parliamentary investigation is actually what it means in practice. Apart from the bright exceptions, when the parliamentary commission has taken seriously the principles and concluded its work, in most cases it has been more of a platform for political accounting. Of course, we cannot say that this will also happen this time, but it remains a question of the sincerity of the proposals' intention to identify the causes and behaviours that have led to the restoration of the Slovenian banking system, to clarify the system of monitoring the operation and management of the banking sector and to identify the consequences of the rehabilitation of our country. The fact is that the parliamentary investigation dealing with this issue was introduced in the previous term at the initiative of this time. A number of evidences were carried out, and about 40 Witnesses were interviewed. Unfortunately, by the end of the term of office of the National Assembly, the Commission has not finished its work. We know why. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we would like to point out that the National Assembly is in some way in control of the functioning of the banking system. This is done mainly through the work of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We discussed the functioning of the banking system extensively at extraordinary and regular meetings. If we were to sum up all these words and lines, we'd almost be infinite. It is true, however, that the parliamentary investigation is devoted to identifying the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. More than once, when we set up an investigative commission in Parliament in public, we hear a famous quote – If you want to cover up something, we will set up an investigation commission. Some past experiences have shown that this is true, but the situation we are in is serious. Until we clear up our backs, until then, we're doomed to repeat mistakes in the future. Public finances are still in poor shape to be known to a shopkeeper, and most importantly to those who have difficulty living from month to month. What should we tell them? What should we tell our pensioners who have paid for so many years in the common currency? Should we let them know that we do not intend to engage in the search for reasons for the causes of the bank hole? I believe that they already have everything over their heads, daily information on the reasons for the situation. Especially in recent months, when the issue in the National Assembly is constantly on the run. However, despite the fact that it has often been the case in the past that only fog is created in parliamentary investigations, we must carry out this investigation in the best possible way. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners must acknowledge that we have had serious concerns about whether to support this proposal, particularly for the reasons I have stated. Nevertheless, we have concluded that we will support the proposal to determine the investigation. We will support him with the desire to discover who those who have influenced the distribution of the bad can say criminal loans. Also, who are those who have looked away peacefully in all this?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At first I hope it'll be different this time, but I just hope. We have before us a proposal to appoint an investigative commission to explain all the circumstances in relation to the developments in the Slovenian banking system and to establish the political responsibility of public function holders due to the negative consequences of this event. In view of all the debates we have seen on the subject in recent months, this proposal does not surprise us. At the same time, I must be honest with you, these discussions do not give rise to particular optimism as to the true purpose of the proposalr. It is precisely because of many past manoeuvres on the political floor of the proposal that it is not possible to look uniformly as well-intentioned actions, which should unite the Slovenian policy to avoid the omen of redistribution on ours and yours; if we are, we are the ones who want to get to the bottom of the matter, but you are the ones who want to hide things with your inaction and further confusion. This is also confirmed by a number of previous actions by the proposer, expressed in a number of terms, for my ideas, of unfortunate legislative proposals, when the proposed commission of inquiry wanted to be well equipped first with some kind of harmful legislative change. The content of these is not about well-intention, ladies and gentlemen, but about ad hoc actions, if you like, public manners. Since the identification of all the circumstances and responsibilities of the multi-billion-dollar resolution of the banking system requires a systematic and responsible policy approach, it is only right that all of us in this Chamber commit ourselves to the actions that will testify to this responsibility. However, it would be unacceptable to take this responsibility with this proposal and put it on all those who have a particular thought on these proposals. The legacy of the previous investigative commissions also fosters this consideration. Not only did the special or similar investigative commissions in relation to the developments in our banks result mainly in marathons and for my notions of sometimes fruitless debates, which were increasingly close to the image of the unargued political inquisition, but these discussions without actual conclusions made the possibility of a genuine insight into the developments in the banking system even more difficult and blurred. Instead of finding the right answers with all stakeholders, politics went to a dead end, where we — apart from the divisive and party-specific screams about the search for justice and truth — did not expect anything else. The Social Democrats, together with coalition partners, have made a commitment to investigate the bank hole in order to identify responsibility and restore confidence in financial and, in particular, supervisory institutions. With this commitment, we have accepted a responsibility that is so much greater due to the coalition majority; at the same time, we expect that these responsibilities will not be dissolved by another or any other policy. At the same time, it is worth noting that the mere investigation of past acts alone will not be a good excuse for the future when we have a glimpse of the current situation. In recent months, we have witnessed numerous sales manoeuvres by Slovenian banks. These banks seem to be filling their shelves with sales speeds in state-owned companies. On the other hand, through restrictive, but really restrictive, credit policies prevent Slovenian companies from buying these articles. Our neighbors are happy to wave their hands and fill their shopping baskets. I am afraid that with the re-emergence of time, which obliges us to take an active approach and instead introduces only a finding, we will be witnessing to some other investigative committee, which unfortunately will not help our companies much. And now a little self-criticism. Politics, respected and respected, can no longer hide behind a time delay simply by identifying what has happened. It is high time that pro-active actions to the extent possible prevent the reasons for setting up such commissions, but not to begin the search for excuses for non-action. Or even more; if we do not want this commission to become again some political trampoline of any proposer. Social Democrats will support this proposal to set up a commission in anticipation and under the watchful monitoring of a joint commitment that will not become another blind manoeuvre so that nothing will happen. I hope there's still hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u15	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u16	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the United Left, in principle, we support the parliamentary investigation into the resolution of the banking system, but we have problems with the proposed method of investigation itself. This proposal mainly entails a repetition of the parliamentary inquiry under the previous mandate, which, according to our assessment, has not produced satisfactory results. If I touch on individual parts of the proposed investigation or its concept, our opinion on individual parts is as follows. We support the proposal to investigate the resolution of the banking system in 2013 and 2014, as there is a serious suspicion that a substantial number of public funds have been used to recapitalise Slovenian banks as needed. The explanations of the Bank of Slovenia did not eliminate these sums. It is still not clear, for example, why the results of the two methods of stress tests differed by as much as €1.5 billion, or 45%. When Oliver Wyman carried out similar tests in Spain in 2012, there were virtually no derogations and there were 45% differences between one method and the other. We therefore supported the proposal to investigate the resolution of the banking system in these years in the United Left two months ago at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, but we are of the view that an expert review should first be carried out on the basis of the law currently being drawn up by the Government. It is well known that thousands of credit maps are needed, each of which should be compared to the results of both types of stress tests. Only this part of the investigation is so extensive on the scale of work that it is significantly beyond the capacity of the parliamentary commission. We are therefore convinced that we need a professional audit first, because only on the basis of this parliamentary commission can we begin to identify the objective, political and other responsibility of the officials of the Bank of Slovenia and the governments of Borut Pahor, Janez Janša and Alenka Bratušek. However, we have a number of problems with the way in which we investigate the approval of bad loans in state banks since 1 January 1997. We also have a technical reservation here, because such an investigation requires a lot of audit work, so we are convinced that in this case it would be advisable to carry out an investigative review first, and then a parliamentary inquiry. More controversial is the contention of this work, or methodological. In fact, each investigation begins with some hypothesis that usually prejudges the findings. In this case, however, the motioner's hypothesis is flawed in our view. Poor loans are not the cause of the crisis. Credits have become bad because of the crisis and not the other way around. The causes of the crisis were systemic to a good extent, while the proposalr focused only on individual causes, but only partially, often politically biased. However, for the first time, it sees the systemic aspects of the crisis; and for the second time, the responsibility of governments against the crisis. If I touch both areas. First of all, about the systemic aspects. The crisis of Slovenian capitalism is primarily due to the global crisis of capitalism. The reason for the particular shape and depth of our crisis is in the weaknesses of the euro area. The pattern of overheating and fracture, which appears mainly to be a banking crisis, was typical of all the southern European countries that have taken over the euro. For example, the first of the countries in a similar crisis was Portugal around 2000, and then throughout the next decade and a half of the same story appeared everywhere in the European South, where less competitive countries took over the euro and thus entered the common monetary area with more developed northern countries. In this context, the crisis in Slovenia has not been completely avoided; however, it could be significantly mitigated by appropriate action by governments after, and above all by the crisis. Dr. Duster and Mag. The pain is noted that the main problem for the crisis in the functioning of the Government and Banka Slovenije in 2004-2008 was. This is, for example, one part that the Commission of Inquiry overlooks in a good way. For reasons of objectivity, the main errors that occurred at the time will take place, according to the Bank of Slovenia report of 2 March 2015, which was prepared at the initiative of the SDS, i.e. the proposer. In particular, Banka Slovenije cites the following errors in the government's operations before the crisis. Firstly, Slovenia gave up its own monetary policy by taking over the euro. Therefore, in 2003 the Government and Banka Slovenije concluded an agreement on anti-cyclical economic policy, which was not taken into account by the subsequent Esdees government. To illustrate. The SDS says the budget was flattened in 2007 – that is true, but if we follow these guidelines and follow the fiscal rule they are now proposing, we should then generate not zero but 900 million euros in surplus due to economic results in 2007. Secondly, tax reforms in 2005-2008 had pro-cyclical effects, it is said that the crisis was encouraged rather than put it out. The European Commission estimates that in 2007 and 2008 alone, the country's structural deficit increased by more than 2% of GDP. Thirdly, the State has also made a significant contribution to inflating real and financial property prices in these years, including by speeding up the construction of the motorway network, by accelerating investment and by early buying long-term bonds from domestic financial institutions with a foreign debt. Mag. Bole notes here: "With this, the country has only accelerated the already-high overheating of the economy's already-extremely-growing credits." And I can add that the government has played a key role in the area of responsibility for tycoon takeovers as well. The legal framework for Taiwanese acquisitions was laid down in 2006 by the adoption of the Law on takeovers. This law allowed the acquisition by credit which was secured by shares of the company taken over. It must also be said that companies were not sold alone, but sold by the Government, Kad and the Court; let us only remember the notorious Mercator case. All of these are things that this parliamentary commission somehow loses from its optics, as it focuses on the alleged criminal acts of public officials and on individual causes of the crisis, and overlooks the systemic causes and political responsibility of governments in particular before the crisis. These are our conceptual reservations to this commission of inquiry, but we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u17	We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, he has the word "proposer of mags." Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for saying so! In view of the views of all the parliamentary groups, I would like to emphasise that I am pleased that reason has prevailed and that political parties in Parliament are aware of political responsibility and that the proposal tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will be supported. I estimate that it is correct for the Commission of Inquiry to be set up and that it is trying to reach certain conclusions. I would like to make some further clarifications on the debates of the parliamentary groups. There have been many questions as to why the investigation has been under way since 1997. At the outset, I said in my position that Slovenia is the only transition countries in Europe, which, for the second time, saved the banking system at the expense of taxpayers. The first rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system began in 1993 and was successfully completed at the end of 1996. We had a healthy banking system back then. But things have been going on ever since, I'd say, strange things. As a result, we have said that if we have recovered the second time, the investigation period should be set from 1997 onwards. At that time, the two main objectives after the first resolution of the banking system were the privatisation of NLB, the privatisation of NKBM and the operational restructuring of the banking system. And this Commission of Inquiry should also identify the reasons, consequences and responsibility why these two key objectives were not met after the first resolution of the banking system, privatisation and operational restructuring. Dearly respected, I am sure that if we followed the privatisation programme for the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank of Maribor, we would not have paid EUR 5 billion of the taxpayer's money at the end of 2013. And this money could be spent elsewhere — public health, public education, pension funds. The EUR 5 billion represents more than half of the annual revenue of the budget in Slovenia. It was also said that there was already an investigative commission under the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia at a given time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have a lot of reservations here, because we are convinced that Banka Slovenije has a large part of the responsibility for the position of the banking system as regulator. And that there is now some commission of inquiry, as has been said, I think, in the position of ZaAB and SMC, under the auspices of someone who is responsible for the situation, we are not clear and therefore, above all, we are in favour of an investigative commission that will be independent. Despite the fact that Desus will support this investigative committee, I was surprised by the content of Desus' position. Dear colleague Jurš has repeatedly mentioned that investigative committees are going to be held in the National Assembly for some political accounting. Dear representatives of Desus, it was I who led the investigative commission of the banking system in the previous term. I can assure you that there have been no political accounts in this committee and that this Commission has acted in a very uniform manner regardless of the composition of the individual representatives of the political parties of the current National Assembly. And that not a single decision adopted by the Commission in its mandate was voted by a vote; but all the conclusions were voted unanimously. And that this work was successful. Unfortunately, the commission's work ended with early elections. The Commission had problems with obtaining documentation from banks and courts. And I am sure that the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system in the previous term was not a political trampoline; but we have set ourselves a goal to achieve the result. Unfortunately, the early term or early elections ended this. On the part of his colleague Jurša, it was further pointed out that we had an endless meeting in the National Assembly in the previous term and the current mandate regarding the banking system and the bank hole. Dear colleague Jurš, I am more concerned that taxpayers will be saved indefinitely by banks and that this is wrong. I'm sure we may have had some more bank meetings. Five billion euros. And I am more concerned about this endless use of Slovenian taxpayer money to rehabilitate the banking system. On the other hand, we hear that we have saved the New Maribor Credit Bank, that we have even kept it alive, with 800 million; now it will be worth about 200 million on the market. And for me, the bigger problem is why, who and why we had to fix the bank for 800 million, is now worth 200 million on the market; not that the bank is worth 200 million now. Dear colleague Han mentioned that he expects a proactive policy. The Esde government, in its previous mandate, in the government so far, you have scissors and canvas in your hands and you are expected to have a proactive policy. You're the one who's forming the government. You're expected to be proactive. The second meeting of the National Assembly in a row is when the National Assembly considers several proposals for legislation by the opposition as the current government. And then you're talking about proactiveity. I don't think this thing goes through. Now, the United Left's position. You said that the commission of inquiry regarding the misuse of the banking system in the previous mandate, according to your opinion, has not produced satisfactory results. If the commission of inquiry has been shut down due to early elections, I don't think you can expect satisfactory results at all because the commission hasn't finished its work. Dear fellow moon, I suggest you read at least the interim report prepared by the Commission. Unfortunately, this interim report was not addressed by the National Assembly, but you probably know the reasons. The fact is that the EUR 5 billion of taxpayer money we have invested in the resolution of the banking system cannot be said to be just the product of the global economic and financial crisis. At the same time, we cannot say that 5 billion large holes are the product of criminal acts. And I do not understand that in their position they have said that the proposer in his proposal somehow avoids periods from 2004 to 2008. Dear fellow moon, we have proposed that the Commission of Inquiry review the period from 1997 to 2015. Where is the period between 2004 and 2008 now missing? I really don't understand. You said we made the wrong hypothesis. We have not made any wrong assumptions; we have only set 13 points to be reviewed by the investigative commission. And I am sure that the Commission of Inquiry is seriously working to achieve a certain result. Of course, provided that access and access to the documentation is made possible to the Commission. The issue of the expertise of this Commission was also discussed. From my own experience, I can tell you that I agree with this principle; only Members and Members who make up it are probably not one and not the others who have the necessary skills. There is a need for knowledge mainly from finance and law, but according to the rules of procedure of the Commission of Inquiry, the Commission of Inquiry has the opportunity to invite external colleagues or external experts to its work. In the previous mandate, the Commission also adopted such a decision to involve external persons with financial, legal and audit knowledge in the work of the Commission. However, until we received the documentation rejected by the banks and by the court, there was no reason to appoint these people and to deal with paperwork or media articles. This means that if there is will, if there is a common point here, this commission of inquiry can also be complemented by expertise from abroad. Dear colleague of the moon, you quoted the report of the Bank of Slovenia. It was all based on some overindebtedness, especially the result of the period of the government of Janez Janša. The Slovenian budget had a surplus in 2007 only once in history, which means during the government of Janez Janša. The lowest unemployment rate was during the period of the government of Janez Janša, the European Union's average results were during the period of the government of Janez Janša, Slovenia's biggest economic growth during the period of the government of Janez Janša in 2004-2008. This was also the only government to hold back until the end of its term of office; and the only government to reach consensus with the Social Democrats at that time in important matters related to Slovenia. And I think the results were the same as they were. You mentioned that the government was choosing the wrong policy at the time. Dearly noted, the findings of the Commission of Inquiry as to what Banka Slovenije did at the time in 2007. In addition, in 2007 Banka Slovenije paid around EUR 3 billion to the domestic banking system through monetary policy instruments that regulated the amount of money in circulation, thereby increasing liquidity and consequently reducing credit. By taking over the euro, the Bank of Slovenia has provided an additional amount of EUR 3 billion. Dear colleague of the moon, the government of Janez Janša could not prevent the indebtedness of natural and legal persons by any means, nor by any means by means of a single lever. And neither government nor any government president, not the present, nor the former, nor Borut Pahor, have this lever or this tool to prevent lending, borrowing of loans from natural or legal persons. Dear fellow moon, the media want you in every way – if not tomorrow – to look like the Prime Minister of the government. Dear colleague of the Moon, if you respect the European Union's legislation and legal order, even if you are the President of the Government, you will not have to prevent lending to legal and natural persons; of course, provided you respect the acquis of the European Union. Since there has been a lot of talk on the Commission of Inquiry, it could be because, if the interim report had never been addressed in this national assembly, it would have read those key findings that we made in the interim report. The State, as owners of banks, bank management authorities, market regulator of the Bank of Slovenia, has failed to ensure that part of the errors caused by the first resolution of the banking system would not be repeated. Following the successful recovery of the banking system in 1996, the country did not pursue the key objective set by it in the development of business banks, namely the privatisation and operational restructuring of the banking system. The staff who were employed in the management bodies of the Ljubljana Bank, a shareholder company, in 1991 remained in the Ljubljanska banka d.d. system, or Nova Ljubljanska banka; whether they continued their business journey in other business banks and financial institutions in Slovenia. At the beginning of the transition of the 1990s, staff employed in the management bodies of the largest Slovenian banks remained in these banks or continued their business journey in other banks and financial institutions. As influential individuals, they had many connections, including with politicians and lobbyists, where personal connections have been transformed into corporate relationships; an undeveloped corporate culture and undefined strategic property objectives have enabled these networks to take on key corporate control despite strong state ownership. According to the Investigative Commission, the market regulator of Banka Slovenije should do more and, in particular, establish risk identification systems in business banks to reduce the possibility of negative results or poor claims. Business banks did not have adequate systems of systemic control risk and did not have established staff resources to detect possible irregularities in the operations of banks; the non-optimal organisation of the management and control of subsidiaries and subsidiaries of business banks. Surely part of the bad loans can be attributed to the financial economic crisis, but as mentioned above, it is not possible to attribute all the reasons. At the time of high credit activity, banks paid little attention to risks and did not finance projects solely on the basis of economic eligibility. Inadequate and inadequate insolvency legislation, non-compliance with management proposals and supervisory boards following faster resolution of banks following the start of the economic crisis in 2008. Owners, the country did not follow the proposals of the management and supervisory boards of banks in NLB, NKBM in 2009, 2010 after ensuring capital adequacy or recapitalisation of banks. A timely response and capital injection would be necessary not only because of poor capital adequacy but also because of stricter regulatory requirements. Over-exposure of business banks to certain sectors and related companies. In certain cases, business banks had an over-exposure to financial holding companies and to construction, and the Bank of Slovenia’s market regulator should play a greater role in controlling over-exposures from business banks. The pressure of the NLB and NKBM supervisory boards after an increase in the market share of banks, the balance sheet sum of banks and the more aggressive sales policy of banks. The questionable expertise of individual members of the Supervisory Board. Human rotations. The transition from the banking system control authorities between the banking system management authorities and vice versa. The question of the adequacy of human resources rotations is raised. The transition from the Bank of Slovenia banking system supervisory authorities to the management authorities of the business bank banking system and vice versa. We have observed cases where a person was employed in a business bank system, but before that he had the function of controlling the same business bank system; or when a person was employed in a control system, before that he managed the same system; for example, Nučič, Jašovic, Caprirolo. The role of representatives of the State-owned owner of the Capital Investment Management Agency – AUKN and the influence on individual management structures in the decision-making, sale of Mercator, recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. Similar difficulties have also been encountered by the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office in obtaining documents such as those of the Board of Inquiry. That's what they told us at the U.S. Attorney's Office at the meeting. The problem of obtaining documentation from banks and courts. Your Honor! It also seems important to me that this commission of inquiry, which I expect, is, at least in view of the assurance of individual parliamentary groups that will receive a green light today in the National Assembly, so that it can also focus on the last recovery. I think there's a number of questions in the last resolution of the banking system. Was this banking system properly, economically, and was it remedied by laws? We have repeatedly warned in the SDS why the ESM Institute was not used at the time. We are confident that this rehabilitation of the banking system would be cheaper. At that time, the Ministry of Finance said that the ESM tools would not be used because the Commission would then give too much conditions and would be independent. On the other hand, we have heard that although we have saved Slovenian banks with our money, the Commission is setting us some conditions. Whether the cutting of the holders of subordinated bonds was lawful or not, the Constitutional Court decides. Kind of stuff. The methodology for calculating the bank hole was never disclosed to the public, not to the general public, nor to the General Assembly. Somehow, I call it a black Friday for taxpayers — 13. 12. 2013, listening to how after this rehabilitation we have the most healthy banks in Europe. In less than one year, the stress tests of the European Central Bank come in, where the two largest system banks, despite billions of recapitalisations, fall on stress tests. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that all these issues need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u19	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I have nothing left but a procedural proposal, but I will also define it. President-in-Office, today, when Marka, as a motioner, began to argue with my views, I have no choice but to make a procedural proposal that we should think in the future that, however, the President of the National Assembly will have the opportunity to allow the parliamentary groups representing the views that a replica is possible. What has happened now that Mark has in some way fragmented our positions, one way or another, I think it is wrong, because in some way we cannot report ourselves, because we have not yet discussed in some way. I think, whether or not the business commission should define it, President, you have the opportunity to give us the floor. But I'm going to tell you why I called because I wouldn't have called otherwise, because he's somehow been corrected by Mark since he stopped dealing with the positions of the groups. Mark, when I talked about pro-activity when I talked about what the government has to do or what politics has to do, I said earlier — a little self-criticism. And I was clearly thinking about this government. And lay me down for words, for what you think, or for what you didn't hear. Before I said that, I said it was self-criticism. I had to answer that. However, in the future, I would call on the applicants to say what they think, but do not argue with their own views, because we do not have the opportunity to appear in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u21	Please! [[advertising from the hall]] While the first part of the proposal makes sense, it would make sense to arrange it in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, there is a business commission for that. The second part is the abuse of a business to polynomise with one who masters the Rules of Procedure so much that he knows precisely that he can attack when no one can defend himself with a replica. That's what our rules of procedure are. For this reason, colleague Han, I must give you another part of the admonition. [[advertising from the hall]] For the first part it is not: the first part is acceptable, and the second part is a reminder. Now we're moving on, now I'm going to read a little more because there's quite a few of those who checked out. Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Janko Weber have the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Much has been said in recent weeks, for months, on the subject of the resolution of the banking system. In the past, we were very fond of using the concept of a bank hole. Now I think it's time that we somehow make this bank hole a bottom. So I think maybe this is kind of final, and on the other hand, the initial phase, which is extremely important. That this situation has occurred in the banking system, we know where the reasons are. Credits were granted by friendship to individuals and companies. The banks certainly did not have the same criteria for lending. I will say that ordinary citizens and citizens could not simply obtain a credit with a favourable interest rate and without adequate insurance, as otherwise has been the case. Regrettably, banks in insurance took all possible things, inadequately valued real estates and very different movables, even without value. Bank administrations, we can say that the banks have obviously run non-professionally; the supervisory authorities, the supervisory councils have not performed their tasks either. However, the Bank of Slovenia, which acts as a regulator and should carry out its work effectively, independently, professionally and in accordance with the law, has failed as a regulator. In the event of a situation in the banking system, there must have been a number of people involved in the work of the bride – from the administration, the supervisory boards and to the regulator of the banks. But in this case, it's not a small mistake. This is a very serious damage that has endangered our public finances and thus all citizens and citizens. We are all aware that the health banking system is still important for individuals and our economy. However, he must be given the confidence that I believe he is in this case and that he is not yet in possession of him. It must be based on sound foundations, on fair, fair lending with appropriate insurance. And the burden of all these unsecured loans is on all of us. And worse still, to this day no one has been responsible; not on the boards of banks, not on the side of the supervisory boards and not on the Bank of Slovenia. Today, the conditions of banks in lending are often very disproportionate. I know, for example, a simple credit for a car worth 10,000 euros, on the one hand, demanded insurance for the insurance company and marriage. We'd say it's very disproportionate, and in this case we'd be wondering where justice is. We've invested $5 billion in bank recovery. What is the worst is that these 5 billion will probably not be enough because we know that we have more than 4 billion of these bad loans in Slovenian banks. Of course, we all know that if we put these 5 billion somewhere else into some good projects, maybe infrastructure, at the end of the highway Drazenci-Gruškovje would already be. There would be no problem with the third development axis, we could have more emergency centres or we wouldn't even be talking about decommissioning emergency medical care outside city centres. We would not wonder if we have money for traineeships and thus prevent young people from carrying out compulsory traineeships, which is a condition for them to be able to carry out an expert examination at all. We could talk about several dozen new jobs, we could talk about lower wages, higher net wages. I'm afraid that's not the case. The high amount needed for the resolution of the banking system, many reports on alleged irregularities in the determination of capital adequacy, of course, have left confidence in the regulator of our banking system itself. And I'm going to repeat the data that was published in The Economist. Banka Slovenije is ranked at the top of the world according to the criterion of the number of employees in the central bank. On 100,000 people we have 21.6; if we take a comparison with the Swedish bank, it has 4.1 employees per 100,000 inhabitants. The National Assembly must take extremely important decisions regarding bank resolution in the Slovenian banking system. All the recapitalisations were confirmed here, in the National Assembly. And that is why I think it is essential that this decision on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry be confirmed today. Why? It was a breach of public finances, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was damaged and all citizens and citizens were harmed. What will we achieve with this parliamentary inquiry? Firstly, we will find out whether Banka Slovenije acted properly or not as regulator. We will find out how many of these credits were given to, and under what conditions — all these controversial loans and also disputed guarantees. We will find out what the lending policy of the banks was. And what's very important is who approved and signed these controversial loans, what was the role of administrations and supervisory boards here. We will also find out why, after the first rehabilitation of the banks, there was no agreed privatisation agreed in 2001. Also, why, where are the reasons for the forced liquidation of Probank, Factor Bank and so on. So we're going to figure out all the controversial lending and who the responsible people are. I must say that I am extremely pleased with the announced support of this investigative committee and look forward to the continuation of this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u23	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor now. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to be as simple and considerate as possible. In 2008, the country was in debt for 8 billion; three years later, in 2011, it was in debt for 16 billion. In those three years, we've grown 8 billion additional debt. Over the next three years, we have raised 14 billion additional debt. The total debt of the country was already 30 billion at the end of 2014. Today, it was clear from the debate of the ruling parliamentary groups that the main culprit for this increase in our debt is the European and global economic and economic crisis. This was today to be understood from all the other debates. But personally, I don't think that's the case, and we're to a large extent to blame ourselves. And I'm only going to point out two main reasons that I think have contributed to such a huge debt. In the last six years, no key reform measure has been taken to improve the functioning of our country. Where measures should be set up and public finances balanced, this has not happened in the last six years. Secondly, to a very large extent, there is an irregularity in the banking system. One of the key and very important causes! If banks were to act economically, they'd have $5 billion in their pocket today. We wouldn't have them in our pocket, but with these 5 billion we could build a second track of the Divač-Koper railway connection, estimated at 400 000. With this money we could build both missing motorway connections against Croatia: Drazenci-Gruškovje and Postojna-Yelšane section. With this money we could build a third pier in Luka Koper and with this money we could build part of the third development axis on the south or north section. Five billion is a lot of money. Today, we are looking for money for these investments, which are urgently needed, which are the crucibles of the economy and the development of Slovenia. We should be looking for them here. In my opinion, the parliamentary investigation will be too small, and so, on my part, also the appeal for the ruling part of the coalition, that there is still a need for additional pro-activity here for additional measures to detect irregularities in the banking system. Let us recall when the initiative was rejected to open up certain data to reveal certain bank irregularities; however, we were rejected in that attempt. This does not mean that the path leading to the resolution and disclosure of irregularities is, therefore, that this parliamentary investigation is also good enough to detect or resolve at least part of the irregularities that have occurred in the banking system. New developments are also coming. Let's take a look at the case of the negative monthly Eurobor for the last three months. No one, I believe, can even tell financial experts what this will mean in the future; whether it will be an addition to the new bank hole. If we're being precise here, negative euroboran loans should be cheap. There are many strangers here in the future and let the parliamentary investigation do its job well to protect the Slovenian euro, which is still important for the recovery of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u25	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Ms Eva Irgle and Mr Daniel Krivec should be prepared for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The text of the proposal for a decision establishing a parliamentary inquiry into the functioning of our banking system states that this is a period of time from 1. 1. 1997 until the date of the determination of the parliamentary inquiry in question; I therefore assume that until today. Perhaps at first sight an extremely long period, but by its own logic. If we remember how we approached when we gained our independence to introduce private and state property. First, social property had to be transformed into private and state property. All of these events have been extremely closely related since then. I'm sure we'll all remember the introduction of the certificates. The vast majority of citizens and citizens received a certificate for all the work they had invested, which was the work of generations before this property was created. Some have had bad luck because they didn’t have a house, and these certificates have had difficulty cashing out, or they have trouble getting a lot of money for a certificate. Others who had botres received loans from banks and bought a number of certificates, and with this, we can say, also enriched. However, banks have rented these loans abroad and these new owners have actually exhausted this social property that they have obtained through certificates. We have also come into a situation where many companies have failed because they have not invested in development. Many have lost jobs, many have moved to other jobs or other organisations. And interestingly enough, those who got credit for buying this property didn't give it back to the banks either. In the meantime, they also sold these companies to a number of speculators, and all these obligations to the botts and to these speculators who were pointing money into the tax havens, their efforts had to be paid back. That's why many of our companies have collapsed. Since these loans have been leased mostly abroad and if, as a result, we stop at the moment that we have recently met with foreigners assessing our claims in our banks, it is really strange that we are strongly involved in business abroad in our banking system; and that foreigners really need to tell us how much debt our banks have or how much bad debts our banks have. We don't know that alone?Oh, my God! I just don't believe it. However, the fact is that foreigners have assessed how much we need. And we need as much as the proponents have mentioned in their material – 5 billion. But without serious grounds, how did the aliens come to this assessment? While I was in a closed session of the National Assembly, when you relieved me as Minister of Defence, I told you how this $5 billion had come to be. It's an open session today, and I'm not going to say it, but that's when I told you how this $5 billion came about. However, I would like to say the following: that foreign financial experts have greatly underestimated these claims; and so the undervalued are also transferred to our bad bank. And this bad bank of ours is a highly undervalued claim to sell ahead, and the difference is paid by all of us, because the state has committed itself to covering this difference to banks. In fact, we have recapitalised these banks, and it is therefore right to look at this process in fact since 1997 — perhaps a few years earlier — and to this day. The fact is that in addition to this process, which I wanted to describe briefly and has been going through the history of Slovenia's independence, it is also happening that, at the same time, the country is selling our best companies. And if we know that this is happening at a time when our banks are recapitalised so much that they don't actually know where this money is, but they're not investing it back in the economy, I can tell you that the peaceful souls don't have to sell Mercator because he already had 1 billion of his assets, as much as Mercator's debt was. We put five billion in banks, we could also service this debt normally, we wouldn't have to sell Laško and Uniona brewery, we didn't have to sell Del, we didn't have to sell Helios, Aera, Fotone, many of our exceptional and eminent companies, which have become the property of foreigners. How is it that foreigners have such a strong capacity with the Slovenian banking system? This is indeed one of the questions that I hope that we will get a clear answer through our work on this committee and resolve what remains to be resolved. With regard to this extremely long period, however, I am convinced that even within this long period, specific cases which could be disclosed in a relatively short period of time can also be deleted. If you remember, we have recently received quite a lot of criticism in the National Assembly because we have passed a law to prevent the payment of one million Euros of the prize to Mr Kramar, the former President of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank. The Constitutional Court has found that this award belongs to him because it is an acquired right. And that's true. It is a right that has been acquired and no law can take it away from you; unless we prove the public interest. Then you can reach back. I am pleased that the proponents have also recorded the importance of public interest in the second point, the Roman two – the parliamentary investigation is public or is in the public interest. It's a very important provision. For the public interest, they say, in rounding – The majority interest of citizens is that the domestic economy works effectively to create new jobs to pay taxes, in short, to ensure long-term growth in the well-being of the population. This is just one of these paragraphs, but enough to have this provision of public interest in this parliamentary inquiry. I hope, however, that we will be able to very well justify public interest in the case of Kramar because the banks' poor claims have led to the fact that many have lost jobs, that many are on the verge of survival; that, in fact, because we have to invest money in the rehabilitation of banks, that there is not enough resources for science, that there is not enough resources for our pension system, which we must always resolve and ask ourselves whether we will be able to provide people with a future pension. When we look at our youngest generation, or younger generation, which is embarking on their career path, they find that we do not allow them some normal, successful career in Slovenia. All of this, I am sure, can be proved within this system that has happened in these last good two decades, or if we go from 1997 onwards, a little less than two decades, because this date is indicated. If anything, I can say, is really the goal, because I was one of those MPs in the National Assembly that we were somehow exposed to; if, look, you passed a law in the case of Kramar, which was rejected by the Constitutional Court, and thus you allowed Mr Kramar to still have that million euro safely stored with him. Yes, I do have a very strong interest in proving the public interest and proposing a law in the National Assembly that will allow us to justify receiving this award unjustifiably paid, because it has contributed a great deal — probably, that is, suspicion — to the fact that bad claims have been made in our banks and that we have all had to pay these bad claims. I therefore welcome today's great willingness on the part of all parliamentary groups to set up this commission of inquiry, and in fact I want it to start working as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u27	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Let Mr Daniel Krivec prepare and follow him, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The bank hole is 5 billion euros. So far, we have recovered the banking system twice since independence, and at least in the second recovery, this has been due in particular to the fact that disputed loans have been granted to individuals and businesses who were then either unable to repay these loans or did not even want to. It is necessary to tell Bob Bob and say that the bank administrations have not acted responsibly all this time and have not acted economically. The supervisory authorities, which should have pointed out the errors that have occurred within the banking system, have not done their work as they should. In short, there have been major irregularities within the banking system; no one has taken responsibility for the situation so far, and the law enforcement authorities are looking very slowly for those responsible. During the previous term of office of the National Assembly, the commission of inquiry on the bank hole was led by Comrade Pogačnik and, unfortunately, the Commission was not able to reach the end of everything at that time because they were in the middle of early elections. However, it must also be said, Commissioner Weber, that you have refused the possibility to consider the interim report on bank abuse adopted by the Commission of Inquiry at the meeting of the National Assembly. And what does that tell us? It also tells us that the drive between politics and these controversial loans and everything that is going on in this regard is very strong. Of course, that's not what I'm saying. Consider the case of the former visible policy, sometimes sitting here in the first place, for a year, he was a candidate for a mandate, but he failed because he could not count well enough, but this gentleman himself freely admitted that he had called around to be granted one of these controversial loans for the Stožice project, which we later found that he had inherited the project. But is anyone responsible for this? Is Mr. Jankovic already responsible for this? So far, I don't know anyone who would be responsible for a multi-billion-dollar bank hole, or someone who's influenced political lines to give credit to someone. Why is it so important that we set up an investigative commission today on banking or on bank abuse? For the first time because it's important because of transparency. A few days ago, we discussed the Bank Act in this National Assembly. You all talk a lot in particular at the Modern Centre Party, that transparency and transparency are needed in the areas of business, but when it comes to voting on this, you are voting against it. So you will vote against the Banks Act, it is said that banks would give the necessary documents, that people, or we, who are not the last to confirm, say, recapitalisation of banks, actually have an insight into what was going on, and also because citizens and citizens have the right to know where their money went. But you are against this transparency. Just as you will today vote against the law on transparent business within notaries and lawyers. You're also against this transparency. True, it's easier to talk than then to do something really. And here I would expect that finally this leap from words to action will be made. Why is the establishment of this commission of inquiry still necessary? It is necessary to determine how and under what conditions credits, bank guarantees and so on were granted. Obviously, citizens and citizens will not get all the answers otherwise because even Banka Slovenije does not want to provide the data. Therefore, colleague Pogačnik also had major problems in his previous term. Not the courts, not the banks. They didn't give their information. And when we demand to adopt or propose a law allowing these documents to come to us, precisely because of transparency and because we are obliged to do so for the sake of all taxpayers, you are voting against it. Why is the Commission of Inquiry important? It is necessary to verify the legality of the banking system in majority state ownership and to determine who were the persons responsible for the operation. I mentioned the bank administrations and the supervisory authorities earlier. Nobody showed up. It is not because the bank’s boards were just putting credits on their eyes and on political friendly lines, but because they were apparently protecting administrations rather than overseeing them. Apparently, they also protected individuals within politics. And that's what we're doing today. That is why we do not get some results. The impact of public officials and officials on the functioning and operation of the banking system should be identified and verified. I mentioned earlier a former high policy that wanted to become a mandate-holder, not to mention the connection that was last mentioned, the Dragan brothers and so on. These are all the political connections that need to be talked about and then found responsibility. It is necessary to check how the loss coverage was carried out. Did this take place, for example, through higher bank operating costs? We need to check that out, too. The impact of the related persons must be verified and determined and, last but not least, the reasons for the controlled liquidation of the Factor Bank and Probanke must be verified. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, you have not signed under the commission of inquiry to order and establish yourself immediately. In particular, I personally expected this from the largest coalition party of the modern centre, because it has in its kind individuals who always have much to say about transparent transparency and are also fighters in some way for transparent action. However, none of these fighters signed their signatures under the commission of inquiry. Of course, we can politically understand this as a tactic, but then you decided that you would only confirm the commission of inquiry today in the National Assembly so that you could make someone like yourself president of the commission of inquiry. And perhaps this chairman of the commission of inquiry will then know what is to be revealed to him and what needs to be covered up. The Commission of Inquiry should be set up. We owe this to citizens and citizens. Regardless of the fact that you have not signed your signatures immediately at the outset of the commission of inquiry, I thank you for voting today to set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u30	I hope that the replica will also definitively explain that this question, which was already raised at the previous point when we discussed the Banking Act, will be resolved. Just for a little while. The Commission's report was sent to 17. 6. 2014, this is an interim report for consideration. 1. Seven. 2014 was requested to convene an extraordinary meeting of the assembly on my proposal as President of the National Assembly, because the Commission wanted to put this on the agenda and I warned her that it was not possible to make a request for an extraordinary meeting in order for this to be placed on the agenda. On my proposal, therefore, the applicant was informed that signatures should be collected for the convening of an extraordinary meeting. At the 104th meeting of the College, it was agreed not to extend the 71st extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which was held on the basis of this requirement. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, the enlargement at the establishment of the agenda of the 71st extraordinary meeting was not voted on. That's why I'm president of National Assembly 4. 7. Convened the 72nd extraordinary meeting for 15. Seven, then, after the election. The deadline for this meeting was 16. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official And then what happened? You have withdrawn the request to convene an extraordinary meeting. As President of the National Assembly, I have done exactly what it took to deal with this report. Unfortunately, you have assessed that after the elections this meeting is no longer necessary and have withdrawn the request for an extraordinary meeting. This is the truth, this is a fact, and I hope that this chapter is closed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! I think that there is one very important decision ahead of us to determine this parliamentary inquiry that will remove certain facts in this banking area. It was clear from previous discussions and views that you supported this, but I still have some doubts, because in the past we have dealt with several cases of banking secrecy and problems that arise within this, and the discussions have always been in the direction that we all agree that certain data should be obtained, especially where the tax money is directed towards individual recovery. These discussions were very extensive in this National Assembly, but when we reached the decision point, the majority coalition rejected such proposals. This was in the case of Probank as well as in the case of Factor Bank. At that time, you all agreed that it was two private banks that we were saving with the taxpayer's money and that it would be right to get information and insight into what is being done with this money of citizens. However, when we proposed individual conclusions, which would have also taken effect, you voted against. That is why I will applaud or rejoice only when the vote is concluded, despite the fact that you are all talking about supporting this investigative commission. I think that this commission of inquiry is indeed necessary, because in these 13 points, which have been well-founded by the applicant, all the problems that have arisen, as has been said, since 2007 when the first bank recovery actually ended. I believe that there is no clear way for citizens to get such a big hole in state banks, given that they have their own experience when they go and hire loans in those same banks. At that time, they must fill in a huge amount of forms, provide all the guarantees, protect their loans with weddings, with property and so on, and it is simply not clear to them how, on the other hand, such large holes can be made in state banks without anyone answering or any cashing of assets that has been made into collateral. I do not think that this is clear to most citizens, so it is right that these facts are enlightened and there is also a conclusion through the parliamentary investigation that this can happen in state banks. Earlier, however, colleague Weber went down even further in history, talked about certificates and how people did not actually have a look at what was in their hands at some point. But by that time, they had been taught, you had appointed them as Godfathers, and you knew much about what to do with these certificates. One of the very eminent speakers in this area, who is still speaking on certain occasions and you are very happy to quote him, was Mr Mencinger. At the time, he was talking about the fact that these papers were literally for something to be erased. But this gentleman is still speaking now in the case of the ownership of individual companies in a similar way. So you have to ask yourself, who's the real godfather for some jobs. This Mr Mencinger is also one of the first privatizers, because the Law Institute of the Faculty of Economics received private owners already there in 1992, 1993 when the same gentleman spoke otherwise about the fact that the certificates are in the trash. So this thing is going to be interesting if we're really going to go this far back in these stories. As previously said, the rehabilitation at the end of 1996 actually put these state banks in a comparable story with European banks, but the second step in keeping the state only with a controlling stake was not to say 25 plus 1 shares. We'll probably all be interested in finding out why this isn't happening. It would also be interesting if colleague Weber kept talking about one million that was paid to Mr Kramar. I think that this individual contract was concluded at a time when in the supervisory world of this bank was also one of your options, Mrs Metka Tekavčič, who was at the time of the deaning of the Faculty of Economics and who even said in her statement that she took full responsibility for this contract. So these addresses exist, and it's only right that they invite themselves to this investigative committee to say what they think about it. It is also interesting to implement it, as from 2001-2005 it has been in the supervisory world that they have worked seriously and professionally. Now we all find that there were many things in that period in some way unprofessional. In some cases, too, it may have passed through these control councils and have gone along a bottarian line into strange waters. The Commission of Inquiry is likely to give a number of interesting answers, which we are all looking forward to in some way. In the last ten years, too, we have found that we are recapitalising banks, accepting guarantees, but as Members we are taking responsibility for these decisions, but we cannot literally ask what is going on with this money. And this is an anomaly that I think has no place in the European space, but it has always been the view that these are some banking secrets to which Members are not entitled, even though we sign the rules that apply to confidential information. On the other hand, when problems arise, we calmly squeeze and support recapitalisation – in recent cases several billion to cover some holes, and we simply must not know anything about these holes. It is therefore right for this Commission to investigate in some way to find responsibility wherever it is. However, it is likely that further legislative changes will have to be made, probably in the Banks Act. If the will as expressed in the position is expressed, I believe that together we will also change any legal matter, so that this commission will have an opportunity to look at what is going on. It was previously pointed out that neither the courts nor the investigating authorities receive all the information in certain cases. For this reason, it is also clear that there is no case under review, because if the investigating institution does not come to the data, it cannot also file a complaint. These are the lowest officials who are very quick to identify responsibility, and for once these high-rankings are still considered untouchable and simply cannot be obtained because this is some kind of bank secrecy. I therefore appeal once again that I believe that your position was to support this, seriously, and that we will end up unanimously supporting this investigation and, on the other hand, that if we find out that certain legal obstacles have occurred together, we will resolve the legal obstacles to get the data that will reveal all these stories.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you. Just for a little while. I remained within the framework of the content of the parliamentary investigation and talked about how credits were leased, which were then not paid in banks, in order to buy companies and also certificates. Since you referred to Mr Mencinger, yes, the very clear position has what implications this has for our banking system and I will certainly rely on Mencinger's position also in the follow-up to this commission, in which, if possible, I will also be able to monitor the functioning of this commission. As far as all those who were in the bank management bodies are concerned. Yeah, everyone's involved in this investigation committee. I don't see any exceptions here. However, with Mr Kramar, I have a very strong interest in proving the public interest that this amount has been unduly paid to him. The legal basis was obvious because the Constitutional Court confirmed this, but public interest, and I hope it is a completely different dimension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. A little swindling, though. Some of you spoke in the performances about how you would support this matter, namely the establishment of a commission. Isn't that a little funny? First you have to sign, then you can say you're in. But it's not that when the proposer gets enough signatures and you know that you have to set it up, because you have to, it's not a vote for it or against it, and then you say, yeah, now we're going to support it. So, you're a little flinching. As for Mr Mencinger, I will be very happy if you quote him elsewhere, but I remember his oldest statement when I might have taken him seriously, and then it was over. In fact, he said before the independence of Slovenia: "No, no, don't do this, God forbid, the Slovenians will eat grass if we conquer ourselves." Then he became vice president for the prize. Look, whatever this gentleman says, you need to turn around. And what Mr. Bavcon says, you have to turn around to get the truth. So, if he says it's sunny today, buy an umbrella right away, then it's a good thing. Well, let's get down to it. Look, we're talking about $5 billion, another time. Slovenia is the only country, I think, in Europe, which has been rehabilitated by banks for the second time. We gave $5 billion for that. What the state can afford with five billion, we probably know, and we don't have to count hospitals, we don't have to count miles of roads, we don't have to count a lot of things that we can get, buy, or whatever. But the 4 billion are still questionable, at least that's what bankers claim. I'd get the results. If 5 billion goes missing, then you should be dealing with the police and prosecution system. At least that would be normal. Our state-of-the-art state-of-the-art law enforcement system has been working on this for the past third year. And now look, for comparison. Mr Kozina first dealt with this, half the working time. Then he received some administrative assistance, and today, after three years, even three prosecutors are working on the case. That's great. Three prosecutors are working on a $5 billion case. What about Patricia? There, three prosecutors and 17 judges were engaged in a politically constructed court trial of 1946. It's the same thing. It's the only place where they were sent to the wall and shot. This was just a prison sentence. And nothing else. Today, after three years, three prosecutors are involved. I can see from the questions sent to me that the police or the prosecution cannot consider how many criminal charges have been filed for this matter. The police have one piece of information, justice has another piece of information. What's true? God take him! But they're dealing with 100 to 150 million. Everything stems from the answers to the question. In short, they're investigating 100 to 150 million out of 5 billion. Do we need such a justice system? Do we need this? I don't think so. And since yesterday, it is probably also clear that it is the political duty of all those who sit here to make a constitutionally consistent order in justice. I guess that's clear, too. What else did Mr Kozina say about these bad loans? This is the D.A.'s office. He said, "I will be finished by the end of 2015. I'll handle the bank crime. I'll lead at least to the stage of the investigation." But he's talking about 150 million. And there's four billion 850 missing, and that's what's missing. I don't know who's gonna deal with that. I don't know who's gonna deal with this. And he said, "Well, 10, 15 years from now, these cases will be in court." So what did he say? I believe he said exactly, actually, because he's the only prosecutor involved. Mr. Fisher is having an affair, that's for sure. He basically said no one would be responsible for anything. After 10, 15 years, definitely not. I'm sure you don't. However, it has to be added, in this connection, I cannot go beyond your party and government president's statement yesterday, which said, "Well, things are being cancelled. Do you know how many times things end?" I don't know if he's normal or not, I'm afraid something with health won't count. It's not gonna count. The same is true of the things we talk about from the point of view of bad loans. Instead of thinking about actively taking legal action in terms of those secrets, I don't know what you've already rejected, and the stupid things you've done when taxpayers can give you $5 billion, but they don't have the right to ask who stole them. But the justice system doesn't investigate it. Look, we can waste the country on this system. I think we're on our way. We're on our way to doing this. Therefore, it would probably be a time of extreme, not only to set up this commission of inquiry, but it would be a time that at this point, what I have just said, 5 billion have disappeared, we can give them away, we must not know who stole them and no one will investigate them and no one will be punished for it. The country is going into smallpox and each of us, and there is no exception to this, Parliament is obliged to take appropriate measures to ensure that this does not happen. First of all, today this investigative commission, and then, in my opinion, as soon as possible, ladies and gentlemen, in a legal and constitutionally indisputable way, to intervene in the prosecution and justice. And it's no different that we don't spend billions in the future. I believe you will defend Mr. Bavcon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u38	Just for a moment, Dr. Gorenak. Yes, Mr. Mencinger was right. We'll eat grass if it goes that way. If we sell Slovenia to strangers, we'll eat grass. And it is right that I should point out this, because even the question is whether we will be able to eat domestic grass or abroad. We have already sold a large part of the food processing industry, we sold our merchant, only foreign grass we can obviously eat in Slovenia if this goes on. And that's what Mr. Mencinger is pointing out.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye. Before I go to my debate, I will allow myself two things, but I would not say a replica, but I must comment on the statements of my predecessors. First, it must be said that in the Republic of Slovenia we are Members who are the first to respect the rule of law and the entire legal order in force. It is true, however, that if certain irregularities are identified and certain irregularities are identified, we are, as the legislative body, the ones who can influence the change. However, as long as existing regulations are in force, we are not to abuse them. Another issue was when the debate on the parliamentary investigation was held. However, I would like to present here a valid provision because I think it is right that we all know it. Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation states: "Parliamentary investigation in matters of public interest shall be carried out in order to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, for the amendment of legislation in a particular area and for other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional jurisdiction." I don't see any credit cards here. So much for that. As for when there was some controversy, the debate two days ago, the SMC, goes on to say that somehow we do not follow the desire to get to the bottom and so forth. Two days ago, I made it very clear that the SMC and the SDS Group are completely identical, the difference is just the way. And the SMC's path is legally valid. Nevertheless, I will say again that in order to identify all irregularities, it is not necessary for each case to have the so-called disputed loans of the entire individual credit card, but for the internal rules of the bank, which define in detail the process of granting and concluding individual credit relations. Accordingly, it is also necessary to examine who misused or exceeded the bank’s powers, taking into account, of course, the other internal rules of the bank, which are not credit relations with the individual borrower. Of course, with a consistent and careful view of what the principle of a good expert means. I reiterate that we need to be very considerate of the borrowers or the bank's committees in our views, let alone publish their data. Since, as it is said, each of us or every borrower has the legitimate right to apply for an unlimited amount of credit, I stress an unlimited amount of credit. Any realisation or approval as a positive decision shall, however, be under the exclusive competence of the bank as other parties, in particular through their processes and those who decide to do so. So much for that. I'd like to touch you about credit cards, data and the like. Two days ago, it was said that in accordance with the Act on Access to Public Information, which was implemented 17. 4. In 2014, it was this act that enabled the transparency of bad bank loans held by state-owned banks — NLB, Banks, Probanks, Factor Banks. And all claims transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company, and also those that will be transferred, are made available on the basis of this quoted law and, according to my information, certain data have already been published, if I may so call it, on the Commissioners or credit cards that are so exposed, i.e. data that are practically public: the value of the individual credit, the date of conclusion, the borrower, the indication of the persons on the credit board and also the final gross exposure of the non-payer on the day of transfer to the DUTB. I don't think we should be talking here anymore about what our right is like as a parliament or justice, if I may call it, a parliamentary commission of inquiry as a political body. Now I am moving on to what I think is right to say out loud. With regard to this astronomical amount of EUR 5 billion that Slovenian taxpayers had to invest in the recapitalisation or rehabilitation of state-owned banks, I think it has been said so much that every word is superfluous. But at the same time, I wonder whether the price of this public interest in preserving state property is not really just the password of individuals or political parties who insist on it. Apparently, state property is a magnet and a means to gain the benefit of individuals at the expense of the majority. I am sure that even in the case of banking, what should simply not have happened happened happened. And it is that individuals or legal persons or interest groups have gained unjustly incredible financial benefits, as all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia feel today. If, for the aforementioned banks – and I will not list them again – there would be no public interest in preserving state property in the past years, I am sure and I am joining all my colleagues, colleagues who have already mentioned them, today would not be talking about such a large amount of burden on Slovenian citizens and citizens. That is why I am of the opinion that until the executive authority is able and responsible to manage state property, and in particular will not actively engage in the prevention and punishment of all forms of such punishment, it is not appropriate to have state property in legal persons currently on the Slovenian market. With regard to my criticalness to state ownership, it really needs to be understood only in the direction that the obvious problem in the Republic of Slovenia is all these long years in management and decision-making institutions – but this must also be set up – and the setting up of representatives of state-owned owners. It turns out that in most cases it was these people who had only a personal and not a public interest in their mission. The consequences are known: at one stage, there is an outflow of huge public funds and, on the other hand, the burden of the population. The fact is, it has to be resisted. I am convinced that the parliamentary commission of inquiry, as a political body, together with all the activities enshrined in the coalition contract relating to the investigation of the bank hole and the definition of individual responsibility and the decisions of the current government regarding the adoption of the law on investigative audits and the decision on the necessary zero rate of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, will help to prevent this kind of bad practice. It is generally known that the Republic of Slovenia also has a rule of law in its Article 2 of the Constitution, so I expect all institutions in the Republic of Slovenia that have legal competence to detect and prosecute the abuse of such offences to carry out all the necessary activities in a reasonable time in order to sanction such irregularities. However, I expect the parliamentary commission of inquiry, in accordance with the law and the rules of procedure, to carry out its entrusted work and indeed to establish the political responsibility of all holders of public powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u42	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! If I may begin by finding out, of course I hope that the power to work on the Commission will be inadequately greater than today's participation of Members and Members in this Chamber at this time. I must introductoryly say that when I appoint this commission, I am somehow overwhelmed by mixed feelings. Of course, there is nothing positive about it when we find that it has obviously erupted more than 5 billion or more than half the annual budget of the country of Slovenia. It is also not a particularly positive conclusion that we are now being forced by past bad decisions to sell a piece of social or state property. In all of this, I sincerely hope that the temptation to sell or sell will not be too severe, especially when selling or selling banks, and that the interests of the State, in particular its taxpayers and taxpayers, will prevail here, as well as for all legal entities that are still dependent on banks. On the other hand, as it is said, in these mixed feelings, I am also given one positive vibration, which is that all the parties, we have heard opinions prepared to participate actively in this committee. I hope and sincerely wish, here I share the opinion of my predecessors that this commission will not be its own purpose and that it will not be confirmed once again that password when you do not want to do something when you want to put something under the rug, you set up a commission. Unbiasedly, it is necessary to determine who has sinned in these matters and to allow them, or all those who have done so, to be held accountable for all their work in criminal and indemnity. Last but not least, this is enshrined in the coalition agreement, which we like to quote and read both the signatories and the opposition colleagues. Finally, this is also recorded in the basic apostles of Desus. We in Desus will discuss less today and will focus our energy more on the work of this Commission with three clear objectives. That the work of this commission is that we have witnessed something similar in the past since the famous year 1997, never again, ever again, come to the bottom of the matter clearly and loudly, and that one or all of those who will be proved to have sinned, condemned and closed, and not for procedural reasons will be released. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Let's get Mr. Marko Ferruga ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to welcome today your intention to participate in this commission of inquiry or to support this committee of all political parties, including positions. However, I wonder why there was no such consensus earlier, in the previous term or earlier. Whether all traces of this money have been erased, which has disappeared in Slovenia, is why it is now on one occasion that we are all willing to cooperate and discover something that is already well hidden. In Slovenia, 5 billion have not disappeared; in Slovenia, 50 billion have disappeared in one way or another. We had to put 5 billion taxpayers in Slovenian banks that still live. Why are we now discussing privatisation, the sale of state-owned enterprises or shares of state-owned enterprises after all this time, why didn't we do it five, ten years ago when the value of these companies was five times higher than it is now? Who was opposed then, why was he against it? Why did we destroy most of the companies owned by the majority state? When were the laws that enabled the manager’s ransom adopted? Where did the manager's ransom come from? From companies, from corporate profits. Instead of making a profit for development, the director directed this profit to buy this company. And when the crisis came, when the money was gone, the profits were gone, then it came to the turn of the bank, which placed credits on their eyes. And then that money went missing from the banks. If we just look at the construction operation. We had some top-notch companies, construction companies that could now build in the Balkans, the Middle East and elsewhere. Compared to Slovakia, when European money came in, they put on their feet their construction operations, built their houses, strengthened them, and then set up a fund, and these companies are now building around the world. With us, we had these companies long ago that were building in the Middle East and everywhere. Now we don't have any more. How many workers went on the road! Where the unions were then, when 80,000 workers went on the road, they fought only for the wages of those who remained. Now we're where we are. From a state asset of 11 billion, every normal European country would receive between 800 million and billions per year. Nothing at all. Why not? Where did that money go? And now we've obviously come to the point where it's dangerous when there's nothing left to take, and now we're going to sell or donate. Now there's gonna be a big betrayal, not five years ago, or more, when we get something for that money. Now we'll be happy to have someone else take it and put it back on its feet. If we just look at our budget, the calculation is quite simple: we need 12 billion a year, a little over what we need to pay back each year the borrowed money, we have to give a billion 600 for the budget pensions, a billion 100 for the social welfare, a billion for the interest on the loans we have taken in the past. And what do we have left? What's left for the investment? Money's running out of basics, something else. Now it has to be centralised and it has to be for Ljubljana and for the periphery if there is anything left. The coherent regional development, which has been held by the mouth in the previous term or under the mandate of the Pahor government, is now nowhere. The municipalities take the investment money that has been calculated on the basis of the Development Hazard Index. If we reduce the average, we will reduce more to large municipalities, and by abolishing investment money, Article 21 will be taken from small municipalities that are already underdeveloped. And then we take away their state institutions. Finally, all will have to vote on the administrative unit, not only to collect signatures, so that only those closest to them living with social support will be elected. I hope that this commission of inquiry will do something to find another euro, not just the culprit, the goal and the boss. When we read in the newspapers, what was it like elsewhere to expose this crime, how the courts condemn it, when we read what a columnist in Croatia said: "You once rolled a joke about Tito and fucked yourself for a couple of years. Now you make a joke at the expense of the state for a few billion, billions disappear, freedom of speech remains." That this committee will not be free of speech and that we will be breathing in Parliament, and there will be no euro, everything will be covered and no one will be to blame. They say blood and money can't be traced. Why don't we open up bank accounts for those institutions that should be investigating? Those people who approved the loans back then. Those responsible at the banks at the time — who put them up? Who proposed and passed such laws that this was possible? And he's hiding everything. How much longer? I am very interested in how the 2016 budget will be drawn up. And you'll be making up the most responsible ones you came here yesterday, not the ones who have been butchering state money for 20 years. But it's gonna have to be put together. If you don't, others will come instead of us, who will have to put it together in one way or another. Are we going to sing that song. I'm going to sell my kike and it's going to go well, and we're going to become servants, highly qualified slaves with diplomas, with doctorates with no idea what else? That's what we're getting into. I hope that she will meet us once, and that this support here is not a fig in her pocket, that it will not be those on this committee from certain parties, that they will be disruptors, but that they will contribute something. That it's really gonna be one of those things because it's been a while. Our grandchildren will be returning our loans by now. If we don't do something quickly, we're going to have to do it, or we're going to have to do it now. Every Slovenian born has an immediate minus 14,000 euros on the booklet. However, dust rose in the newspaper to the extent that the municipalities were in debt of 500 euros per capita. But thanks to the 500 euros, schools are built, kindergartens running healthy drinking water are built sewers. What was made of that minus 14,000 euros? Where are the results? More and more unemployed, the standard is falling. When we look at other countries, the costs of public economic services are increasing, the rates of municipal services are increasing, and depreciation needs to be charged. Once all the water pipes are built, all the cleaning plants and channels will be placed at 200 euros. In the neighbouring country, Germany, when it pays 3,000 euros, or neighbouring Austria, when the average wage is 2 000 800 euros. What will happen to us when most of the simple workers are on a minimum wage of 500 euros? Will Healthy Drinking Waters Be Gave Up? Is there anything else? If we do not do certain things by 2017, the penalty may come. In neighbouring Italy, in some parts of the euro 30 per household, the European Union is penalised for the unmanufactured sewage treatment and treatment of household waste water. What have we done with us in this area? When I was in Styria and Austria a week ago, on our border, when I saw new vineyards planted on the sunny side of this hill, three, four years old vines, they told me that it was all Austrian. 30 hectares are planted. They also have their vineyards in Haloza. Do you think they come from Austria to sprinkle these vineyards? No, no, no. They have modern-day winemakers who say this for love bread. And there will be more and more. The Austrian Styrians also spoke about their plans with us. Haven't we had one board meeting recently when we talked about the situation in Haloza, what we've done with the new rural development operational programme, how many fewer subsidies, who's going to be involved, who's going to be working on the land? Of course, there's no money. If it's not there, you can't share it. And the little we have, we share it wrong. So I really hope that this committee will be put together and that it will have the right intention to clear this matter up. On the other hand, we need to adopt such laws to encourage development in order to allow for more stable conditions for the development of the economy and agriculture, so that we also have our own agricultural development strategy, so that this Slovenia will continue to be processed so that we can increase our self-sustainment with food so that we do not depend on others in this area. There's a lot of work to be done. First, we need to clear up the past. We don't have to clean up 70 years ago. A good 10, 15 years, as far as the financial area is concerned, would be fine. In teaching those who come after us, that they will rule better than those before us, and that we will realize that there is more to it than just money. Even though it's obviously the first money, then everything else. But when the money is gone, if we don’t have another – what do we have left? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I have a feeling that SMC, since he's been here, is guilty of all things and is obliged to take care of everything. I say this in the light of previous debates and debates. But let me return to today's darkness. We support and welcome the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry in the SMC. Maybe it looks like our little awkwardness, because we're probably green in politics, that we didn't jump straight to the first ball on this thing. It is clear that we support this investigation, even though there was something similar in the previous reference to the action. It is, however, that one big signal has to be given by the National Assembly and Parliament, one big support to make it clear that we are all here, I think, without exception, all of us here, to finally do something in the direction of these bank holes, these bank irregularities that have been happening. I wouldn't count those millions and billions that went to shit. But it is necessary here to give another special emphasis to the fact that it might be necessary to ask what these supervisory sacred banks have done so far, and here to seek their responsibility, given that they are not only criminally, even materially responsible under the law itself. And it has to be cleared up once. However, I do not want this investigative commission to stand out, as if it were its own purpose, as it had slowly begun to speak in public, and not to go on the other hand for some witch hunt. Why am I saying this? In the course of the investigations, indeed, responsible persons should be sought, those who have decided and demanded that those ordinary bankers who have actually operated operationally to obtain either individuals or legal persons such large loans, which were not secured to obtain the right liability through these small employees, who have worked in accordance with the instructions of their superiors. And it is clear here that one strong emphasis should be placed on the fact that in fact the Commission of Inquiry is the one that gives moral political support to law enforcement authorities as well. And you have to be aware of that. We must not forget that Parliament is not a law of persecution, but it is the purpose of Parliament to start to provide some good, transparent legislation, not as it is now that we have an untransparent set of legislation and it is all blurry, which has probably been in the interest of someone that it is. And finally, let me say and conclude that my colleagues will have something to say that the government is preparing a law on investigative audits of major investment state projects, which I think is another point from which it will be possible to re-supervise and review more correctly. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I'm going to partly relate to what my colleague Ferlug has already started. As far as this investigation is concerned, I support it. However, I myself, when deciding whether or not to support it, spent quite a bit of time making decisions on the basis of different, let's say, input data, and eventually I came to the conclusion that I support it mainly for one reason. What happened was this five billion-dollar hole, which is definitely not the result of some harmful acts, is probably one beautiful part of this hole. But in order for this to happen, they had to, you could say, settle the stars. So there must have been a lot of mistakes – bad corporate governance, lack of control, lack of whistleblowers, poor culture within these companies that approved loans, and then thirsty in some way, which very much happens to some parallels, with some state policy at the time, is called powering, with loans, with some overheating, with some procyclical action. And that's how it happened. However, in order for all of this to be resolved now and somehow to figure out what it was and why it was, and to try to properly sanction this area as well as to determine whether any of this money is to be recovered, but now they have to settle on the other side of the star, we could call it that. It is said, on the one hand, that this is undoubtedly the Prime Minister, who must advocate that there should be an epilogue at all levels through the competent ministries, then within the competent ministries of the National Investigation Office, then the Prosecutor's Office and so on to the local level, as well as to see what the Supervisor was doing. But our part is only one part within this level, so to speak, of identifying political responsibility. And here, I think through the commission of inquiry that we can give some added value in addition to some start-up and support that will also be through the media, I hope that, even those who are competent to investigate it, the real bodies of investigators will be persecuted, so that all of these levels together will focus on one goal to get to the bottom of what happened. In this way, though, those who are potential witnesses, whistles, and so forth feel that they can come with their word a day, know who they can turn to, to be taken into account and not crushed. The same is true of investigators, so that it does not happen that somewhere in the middle of a successful process, someone is suddenly making progress and going to a completely different job, and someone who will start completely from the beginning is replaced. In fact, at all levels, we would decide to examine this and to obtain a final epilogue. Other areas are also important. On the initiative of a few legislations, we can say that the European Union has already adapted, says the increase in penalties, slightly improved controls, additional requirements concerning solvency and reporting. In addition, it is necessary to determine what will happen in this case, so that this will not happen again. Another interesting thing, when the global economy came into this crisis, which was at least somehow started in international financial markets with Lehman Brothers’ collapse, was also in the media of the talk that we are particularly lucky in Slovenia that we have such underdeveloped banks that they do not have such derivatives, so this cannot happen in Slovenia. And that was in 2007, 2008. This "happiness" has then proved that we are also capable of completely operating on simple banking products such as loans. Thus, the next time such a crisis is likely to happen again, it will also be a reminder to us that, although we may not have so sophisticated financial instruments that can damage creditors, there may also be something in our banks' balance sheets that is completely simple and still not done as it should be. As has already been said, I will support the establishment of an investigative commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Let Mr Bojan Podkoršek prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Of course, I will be happy to support the proposal for a decision on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The fact is, loans without real bank guarantees, without adequate bank guarantees, and thus all too much. It is also a fact that we can see that the bank hole in the Slovenian banking system was created precisely because Banka Slovenije did not do its work as the main supervisor. It is also a fact that the misuse of the banking system could not have occurred in the same way as it did in this country if there had not been political bots, political lords, masters who manage all networks, even in the banking system, and in such a way that those on their side, closely connected in this network, had received loans without bank guarantees without documentation which should have been in accordance with the law in order to be able to share credits. And it is this investigative commission that I think it must have the first, main and crucial role to discover the political connections or political influences on the situation that took place in this disaster, I hope, in the event of the disaster that has taken place in our Republic of Slovenia. As all of us can see, we had to and still have to cover this mess by taxpayers. And those who live extremely, extremely hard, including those who have pensions, pay 200, 300, 400, 500 euros, and most of those on minimum wages and so on. On the other hand, these ultra millionaires in this country have become rich — and nothing happens. Nothing happens in this country. I am convinced that it is essential that we find and bring to the plan of the responsible person for this great mess in this country as soon as possible. Here are the supervisory councils responsible, definitely, there are responsible administrations, definitely. And in the end, through these supervisory boards and administrations, I am sure that our police and everyone has enough leverage to reach those who have influenced them and pressured them to make decisions. A bank official can't make these decisions at the window. These decisions were taken and given key approval by the Administration and the Supervisory Council. Surely, though, under a certain glimmer of those who have felt so strong — and even today this is happening in this country — and untouchable so that they can practically do what they can in the banking system. And there's no responsibility. Look, yesterday we heard that in some countries where this problem happened, things have been cleared up, found guilty, locked up, taken away their entire assets. What about us? Ladies and gentlemen, how long will we be waiting? How long are we gonna wait in this country to get to the bottom of this mess and these thieves? Why will the poor nation always have to pay for all the crap in these nets in the background! I think that the key people who run these networks from the background, ladies and gentlemen, are the old boys who come from the previous system and who have already had a hand over the entire banking system and controlled every penny stream that goes on in this country. Among other things, I read on Facebook recently, now I don't know if it holds or not, some huge funds that are supposed to be on Mrs Štefka Kučan's account somewhere in America. I think you've all read it. If you haven't read it, then you don't read it. Please read it. I'm looking at these social networks because that's where the data is. I'm not saying it's true. But for me, when it comes to 200, 300 or 400 million dollars, that's an alarming information for me. And I would expect that one of those responsible for exposing this mess would also deny these untruths. Those who write on these social networks and provide such data should then be properly punished if these data are not accurate. But there hasn't been any dementia. Today he comes up, in two, three days, this thing is covered, hidden, and gone. But look, dear friends, in this country, it's billions of stolen money on the one hand, and on the other hand, we're fighting over these socially endangered people here, whether we're going to help someone or not, so they can spend a month. This is Slovenian reality. And this Slovenian reality is unacceptable, distasteful, unacceptable to this Slovenian nation. Those poor people who are forced to pay everything to repay each of their loans have to pay for this shit through the recapitalisation of these big thieves in our country. And nothing happens. Therefore, I expect that this parliamentary investigation will also contribute to the immediate action of law enforcement authorities and all those responsible institutions in this country as soon as possible: whether they have taken the property away from these pigs or have brought the money they have already loaded back to Slovenia. So that we don't burden the poor Slovenian nation with this filth and thieving done by individuals and individual networks. We don't have that right. And it is our duty, including the National Assembly, to provide law enforcement authorities with all the necessary conditions so that they can act promptly, quickly and uncompromisingly. If we can do this in the National Assembly, we have done our job. I am sure that this parliamentary investigation will also contribute to this. Another thing I have to say is that I'm very happy today. I have not been here all along in Parliament, but I have listened to the debate and I have heard that it is largely supported by all parliamentary groups. I think that this is one indication that, no matter who is in the coalition or in the opposition, it doesn't matter what happens to our people, our money that we are creating in this country, where this money goes and how it is treated. Thank God, and thank you all, today I must say, I am very proud that we have really set foot here together. I expect not only that this parliamentary inquiry today, we support this act, but I am also sure that when this commission works to prevent us from flirting with each other, we are really on the road to reaching the desired goals. True on the way to the desired goals, as soon as possible. This commission should meet very often, and very quickly. This commission has no time of three, four, five years to make things obsolete, to go all the way to the devil, to the uncles from the background and all those who have political influences, I am sure that they have politically influenced the fact that some have received these loans and cannot be returned today, that these gentlemen will not be able to avoid justice, truth and law. That really once in this country, one of these great thieves is going to answer. I've said this exact same word a hundred times, and I think that's enough. It's got to get to someone and we have to step slowly on these networks. And I said yesterday, look, ladies and gentlemen, if this goes on, I'm going to make one list of those people, people, with names and surnames that go from one bank to another, the insurance company Triglav and so on. One and the same people! And it's not just one and the same people, even related relationships, wife, husband, sister, I don't know what else. We probably don't want that. It is clear here that corruption, pure corruption, is at stake. Please! In one position a wife, in another position a husband and help each other to get as far as possible to steal. We cannot stand for this, we cannot hold the stand, my people, or my fellow Members and Members. We can't and we can't! I hope that through the history of our short history we have only learned some important things. That those who abuse us too, the National Assembly, for doing what they do, abuse us. The eyewitnesses of the people I'm talking to don't say, yeah, they're there, with their name and surname, they stole it -- they say, look, the bank hole, you're guilty -- why are you sitting in the National Assembly, why haven't you done anything? People don't understand exactly what the role of the National Assembly is and what the role of the investigative authorities is, but they tell us. And people say, "You're all the same bastards." But, my dears, I said it yesterday, and I'm going to say it again in front of the entire Slovenian public, I'm not the same bastard because I didn't steal a cent in my life, and I'm not going to be allowed to be told that I'm the same bastard as all those thieves and big thieves who robbed Slovenia. And I'm also sure there's no one among you who would hope to claim that that's not true. If anyone dares to claim to tell us where the 5 billion euro has gone. Let him tell me and prove it to me: see, objectively, that money went there. There was also the possibility that much of this could have happened legally because they used certain legislation to obtain these funds. But if that's what happened, it's the National Assembly's fault. We are the legislative branch of power and we must do everything we can to prevent this from happening. That is why we have also proposed a change in the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding bank secrecy. And I was disappointed that we didn't understand it that way. I see this symbiosis about what we're talking about today and what we're talking about when it comes to the discovery of banking secrecy in certain things. If we allow Banka Slovenije and the banking system itself to create a closed system like it is now, and leave no one close to getting those key data so that it can then act and change legislation, then something is wrong with us. I am convinced that this step must be taken, this step must be taken, and with the appropriate measures and the legal basis that we can create here, we must come to the point that those who want and are always in the game to abuse one system, another system, third subsystem to prevent this, because I think we have learned something now. If you look at European developed countries, there are problems, but not as much as we do. We're being exploited by all these, I'll say, volcanoes our young country and unfinished certain things. Of course they're using it, but we have to stop it as soon as possible, or we're gonna lose everything we have. And I don't want my granddaughter to be a servant in her own country. No, you don't! And I'm responsible for not letting that happen. And we are all responsible, dear colleagues, Members and Members, who are sitting in this national assembly to do so in order to prevent this from being our children, our grandchildren' servants in our own country. Therefore, it seems important to me that in the future we do everything we can to cut through these criminal associations, these spiders that manipulate not only Slovenian politics, you can put any minister you want, or the State Secretary at the Ministry, second and third-rate management has everything in hand, everything and manipulates everyone, regardless of where the Minister or State Secretary came from. He manipulates everyone. This is crystal clear to everyone in this Slovenian public. I also drew the Prime Minister's attention to some of the names holding his hand over the key segments of this country, economic and other. I also wrote to him on Twitter, so you could see the others doing something in this area. If I wrote it publicly, you must know that I wrote it because things are known that these people are not working for the benefit of the state, but working for the personal benefit. These people would also do well to look at their assets once. Not just us Members and some officials. Most of these people should, too, and I think that the National Assembly has one story to change the law. Let all the officials show how they got their hands on certain assets. Not only are they going to the National Assembly, but we, these 90 people, are finally the only thieves in this country. Everyone sitting in here, no matter who's in which party. We have to end this. The National Assembly must put an end to this. And then you'll see the real truth. You will see how many of those officials, who have never been Members or Ministers, have created empires in the background, regardless of political affiliation. But everything and everyone needs to be shut down and taken away from him what he has acquired in a foreign account, at the expense of our poor people who cannot survive. On the one hand, we have a steady increase in poverty, and on the other hand, we do nothing to collect this money. And I really think that's the end of it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, I am sure when this committee will be appointed to join us, those who will be members of this committee to step in together, seriously take this matter seriously and bring it to the point as soon as possible, to see where those who have stolen this country are, and then, on this basis, you will help all law enforcement authorities and all those institutions that have the opportunity to take these people's assets and, if necessary, to shut them down. That is why I am very pleased to support this investigative committee, and I expect it to receive 100 per cent of its support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare the mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u52	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will also support this commission of inquiry in the area of banking with great responsibility. When I know some in this national assembly, some are younger, others are older, surely all of you have created much in your life. Of course in a fair manner and with hard work. When we sometimes talk about our property, if someone accidentally misses us one lighter or maybe wants to take one square metre of land, we immediately detect it and we know all the institutions in the country that prevent it. That's certainly a fact. But when we talk about state property, about money, especially when we talk about the system, about people who are somehow weakening this country, who are somehow trying to steal this country from us, we are more calm, relaxed and quiet about it. When I listen many times to these difficult banking stories, even in my immediate vicinity is one thing, a man who can't believe whether these people at that bank have been conscious of what they've been doing. A normal citizen can't believe this. When we listen on the other hand on television, when we are still advised by those who still have one of the biggest economic experts in Slovenia who have already owned state property in the past, they are also giving us some Greek samples and telling us how we should not sell any state-owned company to do great damage in this area. I will never defend myself that we really have to sell everything that Slovenia is going through. However, I am in favour of selling those companies that we are not only able to manage, and above all those companies that our fellow citizens, who I think are corrupt, are exhausting. Let me tell you, a state-owned company in my immediate vicinity has been employing 400 employees for 15 years and is one of the most modern companies in Europe. He's got a sale, he's run by a local manager, he's got domestic employees. This company also provides for sport, culture, but, of course, within the limits of normality and within the limits of reasonable heights. Surely no one can exhaust this company. When we talk about Slovenian economists, the biggest experts who have helped with this bank hole, on the other hand, we look at citizens who live on 300 euros in pensions living on 600 euros in wages and who have to pay all their bills, who have to take care of their family members, and in particular they have to train their children. Most often I think that this is the biggest economic experts in Slovenia for me. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Throughout the week, we talk about things that are a problem for the Republic of Slovenia, and we are often uneven. I am glad that we are in the same position today and because I want to do well with this country, I would invite you to talk about such an important moment as this bank hole, that we do not allow anyone to influence us from the outside, because those who influence from the outside have a degree of interest and do not want the good of Slovenia. I myself will support this bill with responsibility, and I would like to finally help and help 90 Members to make some basic order in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we were elected, and that is why we are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Get Mr. Luka Moon ready. Mr. Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you. I consider today's debate to be something very positive and an important start in the work of this high assembly for the benefit of citizens and citizens. We were all elected to do something in this country. The coalition has scissors and a canvas of executive branches of power, in some ways it has its coalition majority of scissors and canvas in the legislative branch of power. At the same time, it is the opposition's task to draw attention to the side of the coalition and to propose proposals for those issues that, say, the coalition does not place high on the agenda of the day, and those issues which are somehow inherent in the economic development of the country. This also led the Slovenian Democratic Party to come up with a proposal for this commission. In fact, the cost of €5 billion on our account is too high a sum to leave it in this National Assembly to sail past us and continue to be blindly trusted by the supposed professional institutions, which have proven to be more and more than professional. If I start with a sentence given by the current Prime Minister of the Government in early June 2014, when he said, "For the victory of evil, it is enough that good people do nothing." We set a standard, or the position that there are good people in here, and the task of these good people is to do everything in their power, to get the bank holes to the bottom and that the culprits are answering. I cannot accept the views of some parliamentary groups who are asking rhetorical questions if the intention of the SDS Group has indeed been genuine in preparing this initiative for the Commission of Inquiry. See, the period covered by this Commission of Inquiry covers a period of four and more governments, both left and right. In this respect, the mandate of this Commission of Inquiry is broadly laid down in order to reach the bottom of the matter in general. I would rather hear this expressed mistrust from some of the parliamentary groups and replace it with some hope and belief that, after the establishment of this commission of inquiry, this positive spirit, which has been heard many times today, will also prevail in the composition of this commission of inquiry. That our true interest without some party political ballast will be to identify the main culprits for this bank hole. He used to point out his colleague Jurš as an example of the previous commission of inquiry, as if it were a political overreaction. When there was an investigative commission on construction business, then coalition Members were very actively involved in the defence of the character and the names of the person who made a significant financial hole in this part of the bank hole. With the Stožice project, the Ljubljana Mayor has been quite a big player in the same bank and state banks, which have now transferred these loans to a bad bank. In a way, in this respect, I'm returning the ball. Look, this time we have a new party in this National Assembly and we have representatives of the parties who have already been in the government and who have already been in the opposition, which means that this provides a very wide range of views and there is no reason for some narrow partial interests to come to the fore by defending individual characters. So I appeal to the well-intentionedness of all the members of these committees. I would also like to appeal to this investigative commission to give an appropriate arsenal of powers and, at the same time, to support today's vote our amendment to the Banking Act, which allows the Commission of Inquiry to access data. Once again, if we run into the Bank of Slovenia or the state banks in the investigation commission, I believe that we will raise our voices and request all relevant information from all Members, both coalition and opposition companies. And that the city, either in the coalition or in the opposition, will not be defined by the individual Member. Now, just a little more information. Look, we threw five billion euros into the banks. In order to rehabilitate their economy with state aid, the recapitalisations accounted for €700 billion, which means thousands of €700 per capita in the United States and €2,000,500 per capita in Slovenia. Today the United States of America [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. In fact, I will respond to some of the things that the proposaler Marko Pogačnik has said in fact earlier as a kind of replica to the United Left position. Initially, he noted that we had basically reported to the proposaler that the government's liability should be avoided between 2004 and 2008, saying that the investigation would cover the entire period 1997-2015. What she says is true, my criticism here has not gone that the period covered, too narrow, has gone to the fact that the optics we're going to study this period are wrong. Individual guilt is sought for the resulting bank hole, but systemic causes are overlooked on the other hand, and government policies are largely in the years leading up to the crisis, which, last but not least, are the most responsible for the crisis. Then Marko Pogačnik says that the government between 2004 and 2008 could practically do nothing to prevent the crisis or overheating of the Slovenian economy. I also have to deny it because the economist I mentioned earlier, Dr. Prašnikar and Mag, is an economist. They are very well aware of the pain, the government of that time has had a negative impact on credit activity and overheating of the economy. If I say them again, otherwise I have already presented them in my position, these are the following matters. Firstly, in 2003 the Government and Banka Slovenije entered into an agreement on anti-cyclical economic policy, which the later Janša government did not take into account and so consistently pursued pro-cyclical economic policy throughout the period, which thus overheated the economy even more. If I illustrate a little, let's say only in 2005 and 2006, when economic growth and overheating were already clear, there were 55 debts of Darsa with the state guarantee. They were confirmed by the National Assembly and the Government, which means that they are already in such an overheated economy, especially in the construction sector, the then government intervened by promoting the rapid construction of motorways, which further increased overall overheating. Then, with tax reforms in 2007 and 2008, it created more than 2% of the structural deficit – the European Commission notes. Then the state companies taken over by the tycoons were not sold alone, but sold by the government, Kad and the Court. And the same three – the government, Kad and the Court, through the supervisory boards, were appointed by the directors of Robert Czasar or Andrej Lošin. Finally, the takeover law, which eventually allowed Taiwanese takeovers, adopted the then coalition in 2006. And this is an objective government that ruled before the crisis, and this responsibility cannot be denied in any way. It is fair that the investigation, which will deal with the investigation of the bank hole, also takes full account of it. Next thing we know, it's our critique. is that one of the objects of the investigation will be to determine why the privatisation of the banks to which the then Drnovskov government committed in 2001. There's two things to say here. The main issue is that the bank should not need to be saved if they were sold before the crisis. This is not true because we have seen, everywhere in Europe, that European countries with thousands of billions of public money have recapitalised banks, whether privately or publicly owned. In a crisis of such magnitude as Slovenia or the whole of Europe, private owners simply could not recapitalise the bank. And even in Slovenia we have a rather eclectic case. In NLB, for example, the Belgian NCB had a third share before the crisis. When the crisis began, they had to support the NCB's parent bank in Belgium, and this bank had such a problem that it simply could not participate in the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank, so it simply withdrew from it and the entire burden shifted to the shoulders of our country. This is even more eloquent because only in the information, before the crisis, the NCBs had a reserved place for risk management in the administration. So it was KBC who was supposed to be dealing with risk management in NLB. When these risks escalated in the crisis, it simply withdrew from the bank and left the whole recapitalisation to the state. If I say a few more words about why we are criticising that the previous report, in our opinion, has not produced satisfactory results. It is true that this commission, which existed in the previous term, did not complete its mandate, but also what we read in the interim report is far from satisfactory. Now, on the one hand, we have flat-rate claims, for example, that control could be better. Of course, we all agree. We don't need an investigation. On the other hand, we have quotations such as these: The staff who were employed in the management bodies of the Ljubljana Bank in 1991 remained in the Ljubljana Bank system or continued their business journey in other business banks and financial institutions in Slovenia. I think it's a little bizarre that this is happening as an obvious observation. What have you proved to these people, and what is the evidentiary value of this claim that some people in banks are still the same as they were in 1991 or before? For such things, we cannot say that there are any added value to these investigations. If I finish, I'm running out of time. In our view, this investigation is once again too wide and the problems it opens are practically opening up to almost a 20-year period, and it will not be able to investigate itself. That is why we have proposed that the order of things should be replaced, that we should start with an audit, that we should review the operation of the banking system in the past years, and then, on the basis of the results, we should organise a parliamentary commission. Only in this way could we come to some tangible conclusions. As we say, we will not oppose this parliamentary commission, but we do have the concerns that I have now, I think, for the second time, presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor, and Mr Marko Pogačnik is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I suppose there will be an end to the debate, and after so many discussions in this Chamber, it is very difficult to say what is new. At the outset, I would like to say, because I have been mentioned several times in the individual debate that I, as well as the parliamentary group, have said this in our position, do not object to the establishment of an investigative commission in this area. Of course, we are asked mainly because a number of investigative commissions have already been established in this national assembly, but in most cases the results have not been positive. Of course, we are therefore asked how much we will also be able to explore an area that is very sensitive to our citizens and citizens. With regard to the secret information that banks normally do not wish to provide to the Commission of Inquiry, I said yesterday that we have all the leverage to ensure that the competent law enforcement authorities also provide us with this information so that the Commission can act smoothly and successfully. I realize for myself how long it's been, I'll say simple and simple, with a shovel of confused money in our banks. Let me refresh your memory. You were all talking about a common number. However, it is good to hear individual figures as to how much of the banks received tax money for recapitalisation. Nova Ljubljanska banka billion 551 million, Nova Kreditna banka Maribor 870, Abanka 591, Factor banka 269, Probanka 176 and Banka Celje 190 million. This means that the total number that somehow had a strong impact on the country's gross debt to 75,6 % of the gross social product if we take the data from 2014, thus increasing the public financial debt by 11 % of the gross social product. If we want to speak realistically, we need to focus somehow on what actually led to this bank hole or why we had to fill the bank hole with taxpayers. If we touch on the first reason, in any case it is also an economic crisis, which occurred after some period of booming of the economy as well as of the Slovenian state. An essential element was the abundance of available funds that we had at the time for risked loans. During the period of conjuncture, we had an abnormal expansion of credits. These loans were given a lot of good eyes, of course with a lot of risk. The beginning was phenomenal when you got the money, but when that same money had to be returned, it didn't happen. The largest number of such loans occurred in 2007. Here lies the owner's responsibility, here I am thinking of the country, so that the state here cannot distance itself from this issue, so there is probably also a proposal to set up this commission. For that period, Banka Slovenije representatives mention the pressures on privatisation and economic growth. These are the basic reasons, and we have some who in some ways encouraged large loans and thus later a large bank hole, which has also been created. In the financing of over-exposed companies, third-party banks also received these loans and were highly exposed, as I mentioned earlier, they were never recovered later. Some have moved to an institution which was also set up for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Now it's our turn to propose, but I don't see him. I'm closing the debate. You've got your word. We've got some time left. I know there is still a desire to discuss it, so please apply for the debate. Mr. Franz Ly, you have five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues! Much has been said today about this subject, but I would like to draw further attention to certain important points. I am certainly absolutely in favour of this commission starting to work, as soon as possible, and that it will also be effective, not as it did before. Therefore, in some ways, I also appeal that competent persons are appointed to this committee, with a clear objective, that they will know and know what they are waiting for and what they want to do, so that they will also have appropriate results. When I read this initiative, I can say it, too, I welcome it, but I think it is quite broad, so I would like to say the following. This Commission can certainly do much to clear up this story as soon as possible and to influence in some way both politically and socially, so that all those bodies and services that are professionally qualified to do so, and not least have been paid, carry out their task and justify their existence. As for the bank hole mentioned so many times, I even hope to say that it's not a bank hole, but it's a bank crater. Why? Because there's a lot we know about who the main causes of this crater are. These are comets that were soaring over Slovenia and were very high-songed, even selling recipes, for money, of course, with lectures on how to get these kind of economic receptions, which in some ways also gave them opportunities and opportunities to do so, that they also took on the capital they never earned. Why did I say crater? Because these 5 billion are not only 5 billion. The 5 billion caused such a situation, bringing Slovenia into such a state that the economy is still being picked up and the whole society from this hole, from this crater. I only hope that, as soon as possible, this will also be achieved, that the Commission will also contribute to the fact that much of what appears to have gone missing, that money is certainly gone, that money is, and I hope, once again, that the Commission, with its influence through all these services, will contribute to the fact that most of this money is found and brought back to this country and that it will focus on future development so that there will not be so many problems in the social field, in the economic field and so on, that I will not mention it. I want this committee formed and appointed as soon as possible and to start a successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments that would result from Article 4(1) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry were not tabled to narrow, extend or supplement the proposed parliamentary investigation. The subject matter, purpose and scope of the parliamentary inquiry are defined in the proposal of the Group of Members and Members for the definition of a parliamentary inquiry, in a copy of that proposal and in the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry. We will decide on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry today in the context of the vote. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the 2nd A-point of the agenda, which is the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Foreign Affairs following the urgent procedure: The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Dragoljubi Benčina, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your word. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I should like to reiterate that the proposed amendments to the Law on Foreign Affairs relate exclusively to the publication of the texts of international treaties in the Official Journal. The reason for these amendments or the proposal for these amendments is as follows. Firstly, in order to eliminate the non-economic nature of the publication of the texts of international treaties, both in Slovenian and in foreign languages, and in particular the publication of the so-called Mixed Agreements in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, if they have already been published in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is therefore rationality and economics, which is also in the spirit of time and our placement in the European Union. Secondly, it is important that the Official Journal of the European Union fulfils the conditions of legal certainty and legality and that the so-called Mixed Agreements published in the Official Journal of the European Union constitute a formal uniform text. These are agreements concluded and published within the framework of the entity to which the Republic of Slovenia has transferred the exercise of the work of its sovereign rights, which is based at the same time on the principles of equality and respect for the rule of law. At the same time, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are citizens of the European Union. The proposed amendments to the articles on the publication of the instrument of ratification, Article 77, and the binding article on the composition of the instrument of ratification, Article 75, second paragraph, will significantly reduce the costs of publication, in particular those extremely extensive agreements, which usually cover thousands and several parties in one language version only. On the basis of the amendment adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy, Article 77 also states that, in the case of so-called Mixed Agreements, only an instrument on their ratification will be published, indicating the reference and the active link to the Official Journal of the European Union, where the text of such an agreement has already been published before, and always in the Slovenian language. This seems very important to us. The other changes are of a technical nature and are mainly necessary for the renumbering of articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. To present the report, I give the floor to a member of Mark Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the secretary of state and everyone in the hall! On 21 April, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the draft law amending the Law on Foreign Affairs as the parent body. The following opinions were also adopted at the hearing. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided to propose the law following an urgent procedure. The Committee also took note of the following material: the proposal for a law and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 21. 4. The amendment of the Board of Coalition Parties to Article 3 has also been tabled. In explanation, the representative of the applicant himself said that the proposed amendment led to rationality and economy, as they wanted the proposed solution to be simplified and cheaper to publish international treaties. The implementation of the bill is also linked to the publication of large-scale international agreements for association agreements between the EU, Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, where ratification procedures are expected to be completed before the Eastern Partnership meeting, which is scheduled to take place in Riga on 21 and 22 May this year. This was also one of the objectives set by the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union of Latvia. The highlighted solution also guarantees the constitutional right of access to international treaties in full. As regards the footnote to the Legislative and Legal Service, where the need for a clearer recording of the way international treaties were published in the Official Journal through an active and lasting electronic link to the European Union electronic Official Journal, the amendment of the coalition groups was accordingly. In the debate itself, members and members of the committee from some opposition parliamentary groups expressed their concerns about the justification for the urgent procedure for amending the law because they considered it more appropriate to consider amendments to the Law on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia or to amend the price list of the publication of the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, which is owned by the State. Further concerns regarding the need to adopt a proposal for a law are due to the speedy ratification of international agreements for association agreements, since the economic part of these agreements is not implemented or is frozen. Nevertheless, the members of the coalition parties' committee supported the bill because it allows for economics and ensures an adequate view of international treaties, and the amendment should also allow for the rationalisation of the publication in the future and satisfy the constitutional conditions for the publication of international treaties. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted amendments and also adopted amendments on the basis of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by voting on all articles of the draft law. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Dr. Milan Brglez
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Foreign Affairs Act, which we are dealing with today, is a small but necessary and symbolic step towards a more cost-effective treatment of the taxpayer's money and resources for the operation and implementation of the basic functions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The amended rules dealing with the way in which ratification acts of international treaties are formally dealt with will significantly reduce the related costs at two levels. In the case of international contracts, of which one of the original languages is Slovenian, the costs will be halved, as the published ratification acts from now on will contain only the Slovenian text of the Treaty and, more importantly, in the case of so-called mixed agreements of the European Union, which normally cover hundreds of pages, the costs of publication will be reduced by more than 99 %, as the text of the agreement will be replaced by a permanent electronic link to the Slovenian text published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, the amendment of the law without any consequences for the legal security of citizens and citizens eliminates the unnecessary and unnecessary dual publication of legal acts, acts in the direction of a more rational and economic functioning of public administration and, last but not least, represents a step towards a more effective use of modern information and communication technologies in the legislative process. Given that this type of publication has already been established in many EU countries, we can only ask ourselves why we are only now dealing with a particular issue in the National Assembly. In addition to the long-term positive impact on the legislative process, the proposed amendment will also have concrete current effects. It will allow the National Assembly to adopt, in due time, mixed agreements of the European Union, which are a key element of the continuation of the Eastern Partnership project within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy, in due course and without concern for unacceptable and unjustified burdens of the institutional budget. Support for successful implementation has been in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia for a long time. In the SMC Group, we would like to react once again to the findings expressed by some of our fellow Members in the debate at the College of the President of the National Assembly and to the Committee on Foreign Policy if the proposed amendments were to be made more meaningfully elsewhere, either by amending the Official Journal Act or by recasting the price list in the Official Journal. We cannot agree with these findings in the SMC Group. Under Article 11 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties and Articles 8 and 154 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, our country can only directly undertake international agreements when they are ratified and published. However, the procedure and conditions for ratification and publication of international treaties in Slovenia should still be governed by only one legal act, according to the uncomparable practice of other countries, namely the Law on Foreign Affairs in its Articles 75 and 77. These are also articles whose changes are being addressed today and are being modified accordingly. The desired positive effects, with which all parliamentary groups seem to agree after the discussions so far, can be achieved only with the amendment of this law. An attempt to regulate the way in which the instruments of ratification are published in the Official Journal Act or even with a price list in the Official Journal would therefore not only be materially unacceptable but also not legally appropriate. However, we recognize that the debate on the appropriateness, rationality and prudence of the system of publication of legislators' acts in the Official Journal has to date been avoided by virtually every government and its relevant call of the national assembly. We will therefore support and constructively participate in this debate at the Modern Centre Party in the future. But this is a question that is a matter of another debate. Today we are deciding on a proposal for the adoption of the External Affairs Act, which will simplify and value the ratification process of international agreements and we will unanimously support these changes in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u68	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members! All too often in the National Assembly we are witnessing urgent actions by the government and I demand the government after the adoption of the laws by means of a reduced procedure. In some normal parliamentary democracy, the government is proposing and the National Assembly is considering individual changes following a regular procedure also because it is precisely by discussing and seeking the best solutions from different parliamentary groups that it is looking for the best solutions for citizens and citizens from different sides. This time, we have a proposal for a law amending the Law on Foreign Affairs following an emergency procedure and I would like to draw attention to some negative practice for which I would like not to grow up or that it does not become regularly used in this reference. In fact, whenever the Government encounters a time barrier or a standard regulatory obstacle, instead of adapting its decisions with its full powers to this normative framework, it is looking for an opportunity to amend legislation through another branch of government, i.e. through its majority in the National Assembly. It has previously been pointed out that such an amendment to the Law on Foreign Affairs is proposed on behalf of rationality and economics, since the Association Agreements and Mixed Agreements will now be cheaper to publish for the country and even save the country or Republic of Slovenia. However, let me remind you, the publication in the Official Journal is the one that gives effect to the individual law or agreement, and the Official Journal is a company that owns 100 % of the state. The search for reasons or the argument in this direction that we are amending the Law on Foreign Affairs by emergency procedure, in order to save on publication, while we are aware that the Official Gazette is a company in 100 % state ownership, is a poor argument. By way of derogation, the Official Journal has published a price list on the website and the page of its publication in the Official Journal is EUR 60. For the publication of the free trade agreement with South Korea, the Slovenian government, if I may say so, paid the Slovenians, or the Slovenians, the Official Journal, to a state-owned company, EUR 130 000. Now, tell me what is more useful than doing that a state-owned company adapts the price line to normal market conditions or that either the state pays from left to right a high amount for a company that, as you can see, has a number of advisory contracts with various human resources, professional and marketing companies and thus artificially creates traffic or, on the other hand, that – what it is doing now – the National Assembly forces it in some way to amend the Law on Foreign Affairs. It is probably more rational to amend the code or to change the pricelist of the publication in the Official Journal. Especially because the government is the one that sets the price list for the Official Journal. The Government shall establish a single decision on the price list of the Official Journal and shall be approved by the Supervisory Board of the Official Journal, which shall be chaired by the Director of the Government's Law Service, who shall also sit at the government meeting. In this respect, the explanation is that if we accept this, so that we can publish association and mixed agreements, I don't know, a bad argument, and that is why in the SDS Group we simply can't support the law because it's the government's job, but we won't oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government and you, colleagues and colleagues! The bill drafted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is an excellent example of how quickly we can save money in the public sector. The amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act concerns the publication of international treaties in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. International treaties, in which one of the original languages is Slovenian, will be published in the Official Journal of Slovenia only in Slovenian. In the case of mixed EU agreements, the text of which has already been published in the Official Journal of the European Union in Slovenia, we will indicate in our Official Journal only an electronic link to the text in the Official Journal of the European Union. These amendments will significantly reduce the costs of publishing international contracts in the Official Journal. Let me warn you with specific numbers. This year, it is envisaged to ratify a number of mixed agreements that individually cover more than 100 pages in only one language version. The ratification of the associated agreements between the European Union and Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova is also approaching. These agreements cover approximately 6,000 pages. With the proposed amendment, we will achieve, following the assurances of the foreign ministry representative, that we will save as much as €16 000 740 in the publication of the thousand pages. This amount represents, if recalculated, a total of 47 average pensions or an annual allowance of 45 pensioners with the lowest pension. And all this can be saved only through rational publication in the Official Journal. Therefore, Members and Members of the Desus Group will be most pleased to support the amendment of the law. At the same time, we call on the other ministries to review their operations and find those areas that unduly burden the state budget and propose the necessary measures, because this is being done, as you can see, and I assure you that you will have Desus' support. Finally, let me point out the following. Minister Erjavec also raised the issue of publishing documents too expensive in our official paper. The publication costs are also too high after the recent reduction of the tariff item of the Official Journal and personally I think that we should also discuss this in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Katič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u72	Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The key reasons for amending the Law on Foreign Affairs are the careful use of public funds in publishing mixed agreements and other international treaties in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the proposal of the law provides that the text of those international treaties, which have already been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, is not to be published twice in ratification procedures. Thus, the instrument of ratification in international treaties concluded in the framework of the Republic of Slovenia's EU membership, which must be ratified, will no longer contain the text of an international treaty, but only a reference to the publication in the Official Journal of the EU, the active link to the authentic electronic publication and the information that the original texts can be viewed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union at this time, participates in the ratification procedures of the Association Agreements between the European Union, of the one part, and Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, of the other part, where we know that such agreements may be more than 100 or even several thousand parties. According to the Government, the publication of a thousand pages of the Mixed Agreement in March amounted to EUR 16 000 800 with VAT included. The new publication, which would only include an instrument of ratification and an appropriate reference to the possibility of looking into the text of an international treaty, would cost about €60, which means a large savings. And even if we do, let's think of a price list. The cost of publication in the Official Journal shall be borne in any event by someone. It should also be added that this amendment will not undermine the principle of public transparency, as a view of the texts of international treaties will be open to anyone interested in it. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The Government has put in place a proposal for a law amending the Law on Foreign Affairs to adopt an emergency procedure to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. What are these irreparable consequences that would have followed if we did not immediately accept these changes? The first reason stated by the Government is a significant reduction in the costs of publishing international contracts in the Official Journal. The second reason, and most importantly, is that, I quote, "... it is possible for Slovenia to complete ratification procedures for EU-Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova Association Agreements..." In the opinion of the Government, Slovenia is expected to have an interest in this, as soon as possible and until 21 May, until the meeting of the Eastern Partnership in Riga. In the United Left, we do not object to a technical solution; we are in favour of appreciating the procedure if it does not harm democracy. However, we have serious reservations to these reasons and to the very process. The first is that it is an eccentric abuse of the Rules of Procedure. A few thousand euros for the publication of international agreements at the time of adoption, for example, after a reduced procedure, would not have a difficult remedial effect on the functioning of the country. In short, we reject the reasons for adopting the emergency procedure. According to the Government, Slovenia must ratify the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement until the East Partnership meeting in Riga. That's just not true. Slovenia does not have a mandatory deadline for its decision. Above all, Slovenia is not obliged to ratify any agreement, but at least an agreement which introduces inequality in international relations. This agreement will benefit exclusively European capital in order to make easier use of the population and natural resources of Ukraine. The Ukrainian population will benefit from the agreement about as much as the former Yugoslav countries; this is none. Even the European Union has taken a step back in this agreement. On 12 September last year, the Ministerial Troika of the Russian Federation of Ukraine and the EU rejected the implementation of the economic part of the agreement by the end of 2015. This freeze should become permanent. Geopolitically, this agreement is aimed at the Russian Federation. Whatever we think of him, the fact is that this forced agreement was one of the initiators of the civil war in Ukraine. If this is not sufficient proof that the agreement is harmful and that it needs to be amended into an agreement on equal cooperation, then I do not know what it is. If the European Union wants to reduce customs duties on imports of Ukrainian goods, it can do so unilaterally without subjugating Ukraine. If Europe is serious about financial aid, there is no need to grant 10% of Ukrainian public servants, no need to double the price of gas and a reduction in the minimum wage. The President of the National Assembly stated at the College that there was an absolute political will to ratify the agreement, otherwise the negative consequences for Slovenia should follow. Before the arrival of the United Left in the National Assembly in international relations, the National Assembly may have represented the positions of the great powers of the European Union and NATO. The voice of the United Left isn't like that anymore. And as long as our people overwhelmingly oppose the aggressive policies of the United States, your will will never be absolute. In the United Left, we will defend the views of these people. Please take a look at the Gallup Institute's research; after opposition to US policy, we are in third place. And what are the relations with the Russian Federation destroyed and the support of neofascism and oligarchy in Ukraine other than European and thus Slovenian servility to US politics? As far as international conventions are concerned, the European Union is supposed to be a community of equal and free countries. If anyone knows of any indications that Slovenia could be punished for principled policy, he should put them on the table, but not bluff in the explanations of laws. Above all, how does the ministry face the fact that, at the age of 70, the victory over fascism and domestic traitors is gliding at the extreme nationalist regime in the European Union and undiscovered fascism in Ukraine? The European Eastern Policy is thus becoming the new Drang nach Osten, the third in the last hundred years. The law, which refers to such a policy and would facilitate the adoption of a disputed association agreement, will not be supported by the protests in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u75	The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much, distinguished Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! We have a bill on the table which represents only a technical aspect of the publication of international treaties in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that the proposal for a state budget also represents a financial savings, but this should not be the reason for adoption under the urgent procedure. But let's be honest and tell the truth – the urgent procedure is because the National Assembly wants to consider the EU-Ukraine Act of Ratification of the Association Agreement, Moldova and Georgia and probably also adopt it before the summit of the Eastern Partnership, which will be held in Riga on 21 and 22 May. Of course, it makes sense that we adopt this law to support it, that we will probably ratify the law or the agreement, because the Republic of Slovenia is in fact supporting the enlargement process of the European Union and, of course, the Eastern Partnership. In New Slovenia, we always advocate the principle of economics, and thus all procedures for the country and its citizens are a rationalisation of costs or the process itself. This is also why we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Foreign Affairs today. We agree with the fact that the publication of the texts of international treaties twice in the Official Journal of the State, the texts of which have already been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, is unnecessary. Mixed agreements in which the European Union shares its competence with the Member States and, in this regard, of course, are important both for the European Union and for each Member State, including by a new way of publishing, are sufficient to meet the constitutional conditions for the publication of international treaties. This is a basic guide that Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, is obliged to respect, but if we act economically in doing so, we will save something even better. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the current regime, which provides for the publication of the text of the mixed agreement in Slovenian and foreign languages, most of the time in English, in the framework of the instrument of ratification. Also from the point of view of Slovenian identity, it is important that the international treaty is published in our domestic Slovenian language and abroad only if the international treaty is not concluded in the Slovenian language. Notwithstanding this, if the text of such a contract has already been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, the instrument of ratification shall contain a reference and an appropriate link to the Official Journal of the European Union, while the instrument of ratification shall be accompanied by an international treaty. In New Slovenia, we are aware of the obligations arising from all kinds of international treaties, which is why, despite the urgent process of adoption in the National Assembly, we see a valid reason, in particular the principle of economics and economics and, of course, the constitutional conditions for the publication of international contracts. In view of the above, Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u78	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry to amend the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction, and of the determination and assessment of the actual situation for the determination of the political responsibilities of public function holders due to the suspicion that they have cooperated in the control of the Slovenian banking system and in the direct or direct influence through State ownership or through national authorities and regulators on decisions in the Slovenian banking system concerning the approval of write-offs, cash guarantees, loan policies and the transfer of poor claims to a special company for the management of bank receivables and compliance with applicable laws and regulations on the approval and management of credits and bank guarantees and the suspicion that there have been no clear negative consequences of such practices. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, which fully assumes the content of the application for the regulation of the parliamentary investigation contained in the proposal. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present and 68 were voted against and no one opposed them. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Since the decision was adopted, the parliamentary investigation is hereby determined. In accordance with Article 4(6) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, I request the Council of Ministers to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition of the appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it in a decision to the Assembly at the latest at the forthcoming meeting of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on External Matters by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Databases in the Field of Health Care. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Databases is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Health Committee as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Banking Act. We move on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act is suitable for further consideration Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u79	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that the Commission of Inquiry on Abuses in the Slovenian Banking System has been confirmed today, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would be reasonable to support the amendment of the Banking Act, 1, namely, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it is fair for taxpayers to find out who and why the taxpayers' funds were intended. With this amendment or amendment of the law, we are convinced that we would also facilitate the work of the commission of inquiry, as the proposal to amend the law follows that confidential data could be made available to the authorities of the National Assembly when the banks are recovering from tax money. An investigative commission without documentation will be difficult to work on. I am convinced that the expectations of both the general public and the professional public are high, but above all that this commission of inquiry will not be used for political accounting or that it will be political trampoline. We are convinced that this law means a step forward, a step towards greater transparency and greater responsibility, and not least some of the indications at the debate itself in the National Assembly, that it will soon enter into force of the Banking Act, 2 that this matter can also be transferred to ZBan-2 with a view to being able and with a specific aim. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposed amendment of ZBan-1, in particular for greater transparency, for greater responsibility and fair to taxpayers, to find out why the money was used to rehabilitate banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u80	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you for the words of the President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to this bill, I can say that the Modern Centre's Group of Members notes that the applicant has already tabled it with the same content in 2013. The debate showed that certain circumstances and also facts had occurred after that date, and this was also justified. Here I will repeat again; firstly, it has been found that activity has been activated during this time to detect perpetrators who have caused a so-called bank hole through law enforcement authorities. Second, the same National Assembly had recently passed the Banking Act, 2, which will enter into force on 18 November. This year's 5th. That's what they say at the beginning of next month. Thirdly, it has been pointed out that we must be aware that any access to confidential data by banks, even if they are justified, reduces confidence in the banking system itself. These are the circumstances under which the position of the Modern Centre Party is not to support the proposal of this law. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u82	We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. There were 20 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agriculture, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. There were 72 votes in favour, but there was no one against them. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 56 votes in favour, one against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. There were 26 votes in favour and 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision, and therefore the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Social Security Benefits. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. In the proposal for amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act, it is proposed to delete the provisions laying down the registration of the prohibition of the alienation and the imposition of real estate on all recipients of the financial social assistance and the protection allowance and the obligation to recover the social assistance received from the recipient of the social assistance. As we know, in 2010, at the time of the Government of Social Democrats, the Law on Social Security Benefits, which was then called the Svetlik Law, was passed. This legislation to abolish state pensions, the protection allowance became part of the social assistance system and such changes, some others, were essentially a major blow to citizens at the time. The Act was accompanied by the words of the then Secretary-General, or current Minister Kopač Mrakova: "With the transfer of a state pension, the abolition of a state pension and the transfer of a protective allowance into a social assistance system, a more transparent and more socially equitable system has been established." Unfortunately, today, in 2015, the Social Protection Institute report finds the opposite: poverty has increased significantly since 2009 and has reached 14.5% this year or last year. In 2012, during the time of Minister Visiak, a study was commissioned on the introduction of this law, which entered into force only two years later than it was adopted in the National Assembly, i.e. in January 2012. In view of this study, which has shown that this law is essentially harmful to the social part of the country or to the social sector, certain changes have been introduced, but to a large extent too little. This is also noted by the Institute for Social Protection. The number of applicants for a security allowance decreased by 78 % due to this property registration. The analysis shows that it is because of this property record and the burden on the heirs who must return it, this protective supplement, that such a decline has occurred. Many older people do not want the state of the Republic of Slovenia to sign into real estate and not be able to afford it, there are also anomalies when older people, despite having a protective allowance, are unable to manage their small property and therefore there are even greater difficulties. I think that if we want Members to do something in the area of those socially weak, it is also appropriate to support such a change in the Social Security Benefits Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u84	explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the SMC Group, we believe that such a proposal is not appropriate mainly because it does not distinguish those who have high property and those who have very little property value or nothing. So, it really is a socially weak layer. In addition, we know that contrary to the reasoning behind the proposal, there is still a discretionary right when the congregation or the state, when inherited, can cancel the claim on the inheritance when it comes to heirs who are materially weak. That means you're actually looking at these things. That is why we have decided to do so, and we have also explained this in the debate. Furthermore, we would like to change this in this direction in the future to take into account the characteristics of our real estate market when we know that we have 80% of private-owned dwellings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u86	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Notariat Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Notariat Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have tabled two draft laws, namely the law supplementing the Notariat Act and the Law on Lawyery. We wanted in particular one key change, namely that the annual reports of lawyers and notaries, i.e. those lawyers who are essentially carrying out their profitable activities, would also be a self-employed profession. We are convinced that this would not harm anyone, that the annual reports should already be prepared by notaries and lawyers for the purposes of the Financial Administration, and that the only key supplement is that the annual reports should be made public and published in the Apes and thus accessible to the public. With this, we are confident that we would achieve greater transparency in the business of both lawyers and notaries, increase public confidence and, of course, indirectly affect the reduction of the scope of the grey economy in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u88	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u89	In the opinion of the Modern Centre Party, the existing legislation is sufficiently regulated as it provides that the revenue of notaries is public. In order to ensure customer confidence and to protect the reputation of a notary, they must report information on the revenue of notaries annually, as well as the obligation of notaries to keep records and to complete them annually, and the introduction of electronic alerts constitutes an additional safeguard against the problem of non-invoicing. Finally, foreign arrangements, for example Austria, Germany, Finland, do not provide for mandatory management of the bookkeeping of annual reports and publications. According to the statement, in the SMC Group we do not see any valid reasons for adopting the proposed amendment to the Notariat Act, so the SMC Group will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u90	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 50. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Lawyers. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Lawyers is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth With regard to this item of the agenda, the National Assembly shall be informed, on the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, of the following decision: 4. The term of office of Member of the Committee for Education, Science, Sport and Youth has expired, and has also expired as Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. On the basis of the above, the Group of Social Democrats, pursuant to Article 200(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted a proposal for the appointment of a new Vice-President of the Committee for consideration. I give the word "magic." Mr Branku Grims for presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u91	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! When the coalition was formed, in particular its largest party and the President of the Government, they took over their power by ensuring that they put in place a new paradigm of ethics, morality and respect for law. In the first year, not even in the first year, they fell at exactly three points. It means respect for ethics, morals and consistent respect for law. That's very interesting of you. Even greater problems are the same criteria for everything that is ultimately a constitutional category in Slovenia. In one, it is said, in the largest group of Members, they had a member who, after an irregularity in her conduct had been revealed, had left the post she had just been elected to and had also left her post in the National Assembly. A completely different approach to another party when it was established for Minister Vebra, as previously explained by the President of the Government, that he had gravely exceeded his powers, violated his legislation in the sensitive area of protection of human rights and freedoms with the apparent abuse of the secret service, yet when he was dismissed by 68 votes, he persisted and now wants to take on an additional role in the National Assembly. In addition, it is interesting that much has been said in recent days, although the proposal is not yet official, after the current Vice-President of the National Assembly has become a minister in the government so that he can actually take over this place on his own. Given that the conduct of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the same time the leader of your coalition, has listed elements, indications that are not only about the overriding of powers, but also many indications that fall within the scope of the penal code, from negligence in the performance of the service to abuse of powers and what else could be said by the President of the Government, then, of course, the proposal before us today is controversial. Controversial in many respects, I warn you, most disputed by the points for which the coalition in words has taken up, and in view of what we should actually respect most of ourselves, these are the same rules for all. If a Member had to leave this Parliament, of course, it would have to leave the Member of Parliament much earlier in all logic, which is to be decided here today. By the way, if the same rules were applicable to everyone in the government, of course, the President of the Government, in addition to proposing Mr Vebra's replacement, would have to propose someone else, since at least one minister, specifically the Minister of Justice, was found by the institutions of the State of Slovenia to be in undisputed violation of the law and thus clearly exceeded the legal order of the State of Slovenia. Exactly what this government has set up as its quality at the starting point. Given that the coalition has not yet shown that it would have the same criteria in place, we must point out this problem in the opposition, because it is becoming increasingly attractive, especially in view of the forecast I have been talking about. This proposal alone will certainly not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u92	We have concluded a presentation of the views of the Group. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Jank Weber as Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President! Well, of course, we will support the proposal to become Vice-President of the Education Committee, Mr Janko Weber. I must say that the SDS did not surprise me with its debate, and I must say that I did not expect support either. It grieves me, however, that ladies and ladies from the SDS do not have the same valet for every Member of the National Assembly, no matter what customer it comes from, but I would not like to go into trouble. I know they're caught up in a wave of excitement, and they're just commenting, just like they're commenting. Mr Janko Weber did not violate any legislation, did nothing wrong and acted as Minister of Defence. Therefore, I see no reason for not being able to serve as Vice-President of the Committee. Mr Janko Weber has been a very good president of the National Assembly, a man who has been a Member for 20 years, and I think he does not deserve anything like that from colleagues who have been sitting in this Chamber for a long time. Sometimes it's good that we don't say everything we think, but sometimes it's good that the cards are exposed. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, even without your votes, Janko Weber will be Vice-President of the Education Committee and you will have to live with it. Just as we have to live with certain decisions, we may not agree with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u94	Procedural mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you. Given that Mr Han, as the leader of one of the coalitions, said the SD, claimed that everything was in the best order in the work of the minister, almost ideal at all, then he would ask you briefly as President of the National Assembly if you could explain why Mr Weber, on a proposal from the President of the Government, had been dismissed by 68 votes as Minister because he was supposed to exceed his powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u96	We're voting. I'm breaking up! Aborted. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Don't you? Everything? Let us, for the time being, give it on behalf of the Group of Members, because we have not yet exhausted it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Of course, the Group of Members will vote as has already been said. It means we won't support the proposal, but I would point to, I'll say, the same vats for everyone. Mr Weber has been in Parliament for 20 years, and Mr Janša has been in Parliament since 1991, along with Mr Battelli. And you have calm souls, peaceful souls illegally pressed on the button and sent it — where already? From Parliament. Keep the same standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u98	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 53 for them and 17 for them. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move to Consent to the appointment of the Director General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia Pursuant to Article 74(2) of the Health and Health Insurance Act of 25 March 2015, the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia forwarded the consent of the decisions appointing Sam Fakin as Director-General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body and informed the assembly in writing. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! A month ago, the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia adopted a decision to appoint Sam Fakin, the current director of the institution for a period of 4 years, who has been doing this work since 2007. We give our consent to this appointment to Members and Members of the National Assembly. Whether the past work and the expertise of the proposed candidate justify our votes for support was a question that we have repeatedly discussed in our parliamentary group. We were a few more divided in June at the beginning, and on the basis of several discussions, we were increasingly inclined to avoid supporting the candidate, at least most within our parliamentary group. Mr Only Fakin presented his programme to the DeSUS Group in 2011 in his previous candidacy. At the same time, he announced that in the future years under the 2011-2015 mandate, the health insurance system will stimulate improvements and the driving force to develop ideas until implementation. He announced cooperation in the creation of new health legislation. He announced that he would require health service providers to improve the organisation of work in order to shorten the waiting time before outpatients to a maximum of 20 minutes in order to require a higher level of information, integration of institutions, cost control and quality. Each of us, especially citizens and citizens, can assess whether he has made his predictions. Has the satisfaction of healthcare users increased? So, all those who need medical care sooner or later. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we do not criticize his work. In all these years, the management of the institution has proved to be, but it has also received opponents, critics. The fact is that the health-care package weighs EUR 2.3 billion, which citizens and citizens collect for treatment. It is difficult to watch the positive business of the institution itself, while waiting periods are still too long, when hospitals are almost all in a row numbing red numbers, when we have a strike at the door in the health sector and when hospitals have not paid for operations already carried out. Nor can we go beyond the fact that the institution whose management has been entrusted in these years to the proposed candidate has resisted all hardships and is still resisting the fulfilment of the measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; and this has been the case since 2007. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the proposed candidate did not justify our trust, did not make the promise, so we do not support it for the most part. To conclude with a colleague, former Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar: "Now there is a much greater obligation of policy, especially the largest government party, to find a professionally good candidate." And of course, comrades from the coalition, you have a great job here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u100	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Again, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the proposal of the Assembly of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, which, of course, proposes to the National Assembly to give consent to the appointment of Mr Sam Fakin as Director-General of this institution. It is a very important decision to which to trust management, as we would like to say in a conversation, a health treasury that manages about €2 and a half billion annually. Last week, a debate was held at the Parliamentary-Electorial Commission of the National Assembly on the proposal of the Parliament of the Office. A large majority of the groups of Members have rejected their support for the agreement to appoint a Director-General. There have been many difficult reports at the expense of the previous operation of the insurance undertaking, as well as criticism of Mr Fakin's work and individual behaviour, which has been running a health insurance company since 2007. It is also likely that a number of things are being read, since the representatives of the Bureau at the meeting of the Management and Electoral Commission have unfortunately failed to provide some convincing answers to the criticisms raised. However, it would be very unobjective and misleading if we generally argued that everything is bad at the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and that Mr Fakin has not done anything good for the benefit of the insured during all of his time in charge of the institution. Members and Members of Parliament have also received a public letter from the President of the Management Committee of the Office and the President of the Parliament of the Institute, highlighting past positive measures and the results of the operation of the health register. The fact is also that the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, with a very convincing majority, elected Sam Fakin as Director General of the Institute. The Assembly of the Office, we know, consists of representatives of employers in the private sector, representatives of employers in the public sector, representatives of trade unions, representatives of pensioners, representatives of disabled persons and representatives of farmers. The applicants must also be aware that they have an important responsibility when they decide on the proposal for the Director General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, which, of course, must also obtain the consent of the National Assembly. We think that we are all in a rather awkward situation together in this appointment. The Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, in which there are representatives of the insured, confirmed the Director-General, who is opposed by most political parties. The fact is that the Director-General is not the most involved in the government and that he is also not the most involved with the Minister of Health and that there is a lot to be done. However, it is our responsibility to put an end to this. On the basis of all that stated in the Social Democrats Group, we will abstain in this vote because we think that if we do not have a better candidate, Fakin alone deserves another opportunity in some way; but in the fact that we live in the real world, in fact that in some way Fakin alone will not get support in the National Assembly, we will abstain in this vote, and I hope that we will all find enough wisdom to get at the next meeting a new director of the health insurance company that Slovenia needs, and of course patients need it primarily because it is highly dependent on him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u102	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. The Health Insurance Office needs a director to help the government and the Ministry improve the quality of public health. I'm not talking about reform on purpose. Reforms can go in the right direction or in the wrong direction. Currently, there are two reforms on the table in Slovenia; one reform advocates part of the medical and insurance lobby, and another reform is also committed to the Government in a coalition agreement in one of the rare parts, which is almost without comment accepted by the United Left. In the United Left, we would support a candidate to help implement this reform or to improve a three-step system. First time. Withdrawal of supplementary health insurance. Long years of practice have shown that this system is expensive and is not solidarity. Due to high operating costs, up to €50 million per year in paid premiums does not enter the health system. Complementary insurance is not solidarity as long as minimum wage people pay the same premium as directors. I'm not sure the government will be able to form a supplementary insurance in a solidarity public benefit. If I say an anecdotes, soon after we were elected to the United Left, we were visited by representatives of one of the insurance companies carrying out the supplementary insurance. You won't believe it, they haven't even convinced us that it's necessary to maintain the supplementary insurance, they've been trying to convince us that it's necessary to privatize the mandatory insurance. So far, thank God, we haven't come yet, but it's a strong sign of how powerful lobbyists oppose termination. It follows from Dr. Fakin's programme that he is willing to participate in the transfer of supplementary insurance to where it belongs, i.e. to the institution. We didn't understand it in the anti-candidate program. Secondly, we expect the Director of the Institute to help separate public health from private health. Only quality public health ensures equality of patients regardless of their position and property. Quality public health is threatened by two phenomena. On the one hand, the semi-legislative work of physicians in private companies which, while employed in public institutions, on the other hand is the expansion of concessions. Today, almost 14% of compulsory insurance funds go completely legal in private pockets. In our view, none of the main candidates have made convincing measures to end this. Third time. We expect the Director of the Institute to help develop the public health network and the human resources potential of public health. The Coalition Treaty provides for a change in the powers of the Medical Chamber. We agree with that. What happens if the Czech organization decides on specializations, we see a lack of radiologists, rheumatologists or endocrinologists. The result is that we have the most modernly equipped oncology department in UKC Maribor today, which does not work due to lack of personnel. In this area, too, we have not identified convincing initiatives for candidates. In the United Left, we would support a candidate who would be involved in improving public health and insurance. I say that I have cooperated on purpose because only a coalition can improve legislation. The Office and its Director are subordinated to the Government in the final instance and, last but not least, the Government and the coalition are responsible for the transformation of supplementary insurance, the separation of private and profitable from public, the provision of equal rights to all patients, regardless of property. There is a better choice between the two main candidates for the Director of the Institute, in our opinion, Dr Fakin. We are therefore surprised that SMC supports another candidate who starts his neoliberal programme with a fiscal rule even before it was even adopted. The fact that Dr. Fakin is more suitable than the anti-candidate is not enough to support him. After all, the institution is responsible for the conclusion of contracts with private operators; after all, the institution is responsible for so-called white consignments that allow for the skipping of species. Finally, cooperation between the Government and the Institute, rather than arguing with its director, will be necessary to improve public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u104	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u105	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, on the basis of all the results of the operation of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, and in the light of the responsibility of the institution in relation to the issue of Slovenian health, we decided not to support the appointment of Mr Sam Fakin as Director-General of ZZS. That would be his third term, though. Mr Fakin has been Director of the Health Insurance Institute since 2007. During this period, nine ministers of health have been replaced to mention interestingness, and Mr Fakin has survived for the miracles of all these nine. However, as for the professional work, in Novi Slovenija in the past we have missed the Director's responsibility in three segments. The first is the failure to respect and disregard the decisions adopted by the past governments from 2007 onwards. In fact, government decisions relate to the decision and adoption of standards and standards and other compulsory health insurance rights, which are the basis for determining the prices of health services. Furthermore, it can be noted that the institution has not exercised the necessary supervision of health service providers in the supply and delivery of health services. New Slovenia thus drew attention to the Court of Auditors' opinion on the competent committee that the supervision of the CFSP over emergency rescue services was not appropriate. Mr Fakin acknowledged this and added that such a proposal would be too expensive. For the miracles. In particular, in conjunction with the Institute of Health Insurance, Slovenia would be exposed to the intransigence of funding. In Slovenia we have payments of health services on the basis of a specific plan or arrangement not based on a certain realised weight or actual realization. This is not a 21st century system, and one of the interesting things is that Mr Fakin has not eliminated these anomalies as director of the institution. We wonder why the same services, i.e. the same interventions at different hospitals in Slovenia, are paid differently. These are the anomalies that we have repeatedly stressed in New Slovenia and Mr Fakin should also abolish these anomalies within almost 8 years of his mandate. He didn't take them away! It is also necessary to mention waiting periods or waiting periods. We pay huge sums of money to citizens in this system, but patients can wait several years for certain operators to arrive at services they are also entitled to. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is the largest fund in the country that manages as much as EUR 2.3 billion. The praise of Director Fakin with this year's positive business and 15 million profits, while Slovenian hospitals drown in losses, is distasteful and unfair, especially to patients. In the past, the loss suffered by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has always been remedied from the budget, i.e. taxpayers' money. For all the reasons mentioned above, we do not support Mr Sam Fakin's appointment as Director of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u106	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u107	Today we have heard quite a few presentations, and I must say that I was surprised that Members do not yet know what is true and what is not. Among other things, I have heard that the Department of Health Insurance is supposed to be responsible to the Government and the Government would have it in their hands and I don't know what else. If that were the case, we would not even have to discuss this today and go there today. It's not like that. The fact is, if we are surprised that someone insists on this candidacy and that this is possible for the first time, of course this does not apply. We had this case, if you remember, many years ago, just like Mr Kosher, who stubbornly insisted on the same cashier's invitation and had to take place two processes in order to understand that he did not have support. Mr Fakin publicly explains that he is not really interested, not in what is happening in the National Assembly or in what they are discussing, whether he has support or not. In fact, he forgets one thing. We all want health reforms in the National Assembly. We will support the fact that Mr Fakin will no longer be the director or will have to go into the procedure again if, of course, those who conduct this procedure by law will seriously consider and re-propose him to the National Assembly, particularly for one simple reason. If we discuss differently today, the other way to give him even support, then the Minister of Health will always have an excuse that he cannot really carry out the reform because he does not have the right interlocutors at the health treasury and simply does not go together. We are one of the few countries in Europe where the health treasury functions as a satellite, like the moon orbiting around the Earth, only this moon always circulates at a certain rhythm and has a very clearly predictable circle. This health department has one of its own plates, which we find out every time it swims. And it's just that these two aren't getting along. Therefore, of course, counsel to Mr Fakin: do not bite the hand that feeds you, and cooperate, that you may have more food and that you may be provided. Simply, Mr Fakin has not justified his existence in all these years, has not made any reorganisation, has not offered an alternative solution and therefore has no results except for the balance sheet calculation of the positive balance, and therefore does not enjoy our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u108	The text is addressed to Mr Branko Zorman, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u109	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! One of the most important health determinants is the orderliness and good functionality of health care, which is regulated through the health insurance system, whose carrier in the Republic of Slovenia is the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. It is a public institution that manages a treasury where compulsory health insurance payments are collected, which must be operated in accordance with the principles of social justice and solidarity between the healthy and the sick, the old and the young, the rich and the poor. Health care, as Slovenia now has, reflects many anomalies that do not follow this principle. Many health institutions are in severe financial distress, and we are faced with the heavy burdens of some hospitals. Patients are forced into intolerable waiting periods, warnings are issued in public both by healthcare providers and by operators and the professional public. Both caution that the quality or standard of treatment of a socially protected patient is being reduced dangerously. The system needs to be reorganised. Deliberately and decisively. Even with the fact that the demographic trend indicates the need for measures in this area to maintain the health level achieved. Both the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Statute of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia have defined the task of drafting standards and standards, which it does not implement. To manage this duty, he was also invited by the Government, for the first time in 2010, in 2011 and again in 2013. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has been called upon to establish standards and standards relating to the scope of rights, medical devices and medicines, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Health, which would lay the groundwork for determining the prices of health services, which would provide a more adequate funding system in times of acute conditions. We don't have these standards and standards today. In addition, warnings were also received by the Court of Auditors, mainly regarding the non-transparent payment of health services, as well as the lack of supervision that the ZZS is obliged to carry out under law. Let me just remind you of the lack of control over emergency rescue operations. The solution to these problems is impossible to implement if the power is concentrated in an actor suitable for maintaining the status quo, as we know that this area has not been significantly altered in eight years. In all cases, it should be recalled that the basic function of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance is to ensure the effective collection and distribution of public funds for the quality realization of the rights set out in this Title. In accordance with its programme and coalition contract, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre aims to raise availability and quality in public health. On the one hand, there is a need to increase the autonomy of the compulsory health insurance institution, but we believe that this is feasible only when the responsibility of the institution is increased. Without the reciprocity and common search for optimal solutions between the ministry and the institution, it will also be possible in the future to place responsibility from one actor to another and to implement systemic changes will thus not be possible. From the above content arguments, the SMC Group will not support the proposal to appoint the Director General of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute Sam Fakin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u110	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! We will not give consent in our Group of Members of this proposal or this proposal. It is mainly about the fact that health matters are not going well or that an important part of the problems is borne by a health insurance company with all its authorities, the problem is not only an individual body, that is to say the current director who is re-canding, but is also an important part of the problem in the systemic solution and probably also in the failure of those authorities that are obliged to supervise the director’s functioning and his business. It's an insurance board and it's also a insurance assembly. If politics wants to make a link between its responsibility and its competence, it is likely that important changes must be made in this area and that this matter should be connected slightly more. This is how members of the Governing Board and the Assembly decide on practical matters, where politics is almost not represented. However, it is necessary to say here that policy will also bear a key responsibility in this mandate and, given how the current Minister has dealt with some of the issues, great problems can arise. For example, the area of emergency medical care. The arrangements of this area have been undertaken in a way that is not appropriate, in fact, in some hidden way. Although the Government is committed to transparency, although the Government is obliged to call the public to draw up regulations, this has not happened in this case. This should simply be said that these things need to be done in a different way. This dilemma, which is better for Slovenia, or public or private health; for our citizens, good health is enough. Whether we achieve it through private work or public work is a less important issue. It is crucial that our people receive adequate care, sufficient quality care at an appropriate time, that is to say there are no waiting times, there are no waiting types and that within these compulsory services there is also a properly structured basket of services that we need. In short, we have come to some conclusions in a discussion that we have also had with the candidate, and our parliamentary group, as it is said, will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u112	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The debate of Members is next. Miha Kordiš has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u113	President, thank you very much for your word. One reference and an obvious misunderstanding of the position presented by the United Left have emerged in the presentations of the positions of the groups. So let me quote this part again to clarify it. "In the United Left we would support a candidate who would be involved in improving public health and insurance. I deliberately say 'cooperation' because only a coalition can improve legislation. The Office and its Director are subordinated to the Government in the final instance, and last but not least, the Government and the coalition are responsible for the transformation of supplementary insurance, the separation of private and profitable from public, the provision of equal rights to all patients, regardless of property." I think some misunderstanding was about this part, and I think we've cleared up this misunderstanding now. Come in. The reasons for rejecting Dr. Fakin, cited by the ruling party, are not too convincing. We have read in the media that Dr Fakin is not compatible with the proposed health reform. This may be true, of course, there is an immediate question at this point, and how this health reform is compatible with its anti-candidate, which begins its programme with a fiscal rule. And here, by the way, from the point of view of the fiscal rule, Dr. Fakin is actually an excellent candidate, because he doesn't just have a flat budget, but he's leading the surplus. Next, there was an argument in the media that the Institute was artificially lowering the prices of services and that it was somehow responsible for the loss of hospitals. I cannot judge the specific prices, but I can say that the idea of the role of the Institute in this place is quite wrong. The price is created on the basis of supply and demand, but since there must be no market in the public system, the interests of the public institutions must be represented by hospitals, the interests of the insured, all of us, the patients, and the Institute. And the Bureau is asking for it on our behalf. It would be rather irresponsible for this institution to automatically agree to the high prices of health services. In such a case, of course, the non-economic use of funds could be attributed to him. As it is said, I will not go to the price in particular, but I would like to remind you here that price regulations are accepted by the Minister of Finance. That is why a person cannot get rid of the impression that the coalition does not have some extremely solid objective reasons why he is going against the Assembly of the Office, why this Assembly is so important in this place. Finally, the Ombudsman and her proposals should not be rejected by the National Assembly for very good reasons. If I move on. In the United Left, we can clearly say another point from our point of view, namely, that the increase in earnings in our health care has gone beyond all borders. While the Institute does not grant concessions, it does sign contracts with concessionaires and is therefore responsible for poor supervision in this area. But I'm out there lurking in public what's going on in this area. That it's all Texas. Employees work without their own equipment, it happens that health professionals have to work for private people in the public service or even remain unpaid and so on; in short, the Institute has a certain part of the responsibility in this case. In any case, the Office also has part of its responsibility for the issue of white travel. White travelers allow the private to decide how public money will be spent. This should, of course, prevent only Fakin as Head of the Institute, but of course, there is also the role of the Ministry, which should not support such practices, even if it already advocates a separation of the private from the public. So much for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u114	This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly agrees to appoint Sam Fakin as Director General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly not to adopt a proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present and he voted in favour against 56. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 56.]] I'm guessing the council didn't take the decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers under the ordinary procedure. On Tuesday 21 April 2015, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members and Members, dear citizens and citizens! I congratulate you on the coming holidays, and I want you to rest from what wears you out, peace and good times! With these wishes, I conclude the 7th meeting of the National Assembly.
