ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to resume the 10th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Anita Koleša until 11:30, Mrs Urška Ban until 13:00, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Dr. Franc Trček by 2 p.m. and Mr. Jernej Vrtovac from 18:00 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on autors and related rights following a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Aleš Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me a few more words on the road to the amendment of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. You therefore have before you a proposal for a amendment to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which transposes into the Slovenian legal order the European Union Directive on orphan works which regulates the conditions and use of so-called orphan works. These are those protected works whose rightholder is not known or cannot be found. This will allow the digitisation and dissemination of such works and, consequently, contribute to the preservation and dissemination of European and Slovenian cultural heritage. The establishment of a legal framework that will facilitate the digitisation and dissemination of copyrighted works and other content is also one of the key actions of the European Digital Agenda. The bill thus specifies which works can be considered as orphans, how a careful search can be carried out, also provides that a record of careful searches must be kept and that the author of the orphan work may terminate the status of the orphan work and require a fair compensation. The way in which the amount and method of payment of the fair will be calculated will be determined by the Government by a regulation proposed by the Ministry of Culture. This proposal also introduces exceptions to copyright for disabled persons and publicly accessible libraries, museums, archives and educational institutions. I must say that there has been a broad public debate on this novel. The Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly has also adopted amendments which, we believe, have further improved this bill. Thank you for your attention. If there is any need for further explanation, we are at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Mark Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u4	Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on the Economy is at its 8th session. 6. As a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption was made by the Government following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 30th session. 6. He decided that the law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, SAZAS, Institute of IPF, IUP, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. The Committee forwarded an opinion to the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical aspects and gave an opinion on certain articles, and specifically pointed out that it was inconsistencies of the law which could be abolished under this legislative procedure. The Committee was also provided with the following material, namely the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the report of the Committee of the National Council on Culture, the comments of SAZAS and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to a certain article of the draft law. The representative presented the main solutions in the introduction, where it is a matter of aligning the novel with the EU acquis, introducing an exemption from copyright and for the benefit of the disabled and publicly accessible libraries, museums, archives and educational institutions. The use of orphan works is also regulated. Representatives of SAZAS pointed out two changes to the novel itself in 2. And Article 4, which, in their view, is intended to introduce a different interpretation and thus create disputes which have already been brought to their attention in the debate. The representative of the proposer reiterated that coordination was a matter for the EU directive and for the editorial corrections brought to the attention of the information officer and that it was not a matter for substantive changes such as the opinions of the SAZAS representatives. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has examined and adopted amendments from the SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the SDS Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you, President, for your word. Honourable representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! When the government quietly sent a novel of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights to the National Assembly, we said in the SDS: "Finally. Finally, all those open questions, which are a long-standing consequence of non-action, will be resolved." But the novel has nothing to do with solving key problems in this area. Apparently another government that has no courage to make order in this area. The Novela brings one alignment with the EU Directive, regulates the problem of orphan works and introduces exceptions to copyright for disabled persons and public access libraries, museums, archives and educational institutions. So there's no mistake. We support all these solutions in the SDS. On the other hand, in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which gave some warnings in its opinion, and also specific comments to the second, third, fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh articles of the bill, i.e. to almost all the articles of the bill, we expected amendments from the members of the coalition, as the Legislative and Legal Service points out the non-consistency of the law which, even under this law, cannot be abolished. But neither this government nor the coalition can properly reconcile and resolve with the amendments. Where there are still systemic solutions to all the anomalies in this area. There's a great opportunity, a new opportunity in sight, I hope you'll back it up then. Moreover, when the representatives of the public concerned pointed out two amendments to the novel itself, in Articles 2 and 4, which they thought would introduce the possibility of different interpretations and thus the cause of judicial disputes, the representative of the applicant stressed at the meeting of the working body that it was a matter of coordination with the provisions of the EU Directive and only editorial corrections and that we should not introduce systematic changes. So it's just editorial corrections and no systemic solutions. As has already been said, in the SDS we support all three key solutions, in a way that benefits people with disabilities, as well as the fact that public archives, libraries, museums and other institutions can obtain these orphan works for the performance of tasks in the public interest. For us, the key solution to the amendment is the law, which says: "When the contractor transferred the right to rent phonograms by its execution to the phonogram manufacturer, the manufacturer of phonograms must pay him a fair compensation. The right to a just compensation cannot be waived by the perpetrator." In our view, it is crucial and is crucial for many Slovenian authors and, in particular, for contractors, a key solution to this law. In the SDS Group, however, we fear that in the amendment of the law there is also a provision that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, adopt within one month a way of calculating the amount of compensation to the author of the orphan work. Because, unfortunately, we are not yet used to the fact that the Ministry of Culture is preparing anything serious in this mandate, because their drafts for bad solutions are already landing in the trash bin, and the Ministry is likely to have workers on holiday today, we expect August 15th and how the ministry or government will handle this under-law matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a bill that we will support in the Desus Group. The draft law transposes into the Slovenian legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on certain authorised uses of orphan works. The deadline for transposition of the directive expired at the end of last October, and Slovenia is facing a financial penalty, and it is therefore necessary to speed up the adoption of the amendments. Orphan works are those protected works whose right holder is not known or cannot be found. Since, in the case of orphan works, it is not possible to obtain prior consent from holders of rights to reproduce and make available to the public of protected works, certain public institutions acting in the public interest, in the case of publicly accessible archives and libraries, are allowed to use protected works under certain conditions. At the same time, the Novela provides that reproduction and distribution of work and public recitation in favour of disabled persons will be free under certain conditions. There is also an exception that the communication of works on screens of publicly accessible archives, libraries, museums and educational institutions will be free. The new law was first laid down and intended to regulate a very complex area of operation of collective organisations, where the exercise of control over them is problematic, and unfortunately this has not happened. According to government representatives' assurances, this is expected to happen by the end of the year, which is what we welcome in the Desus Group, as we have also committed ourselves to improving the control of copyright and the functioning of official institutions in the Coalition Treaty. As has already been said, in our parliamentary group, we will unanimously support the draft law which transposes into the Slovenian legal order the directive on orphan works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u9	They are addressed by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights transposes into the Slovenian legal order the guidelines of the European Parliament and of the Council as of October 2012, relating to certain authorised use of so-called orphan works. The proposal thus regulates the conditions for the use of orphan works, i.e. those protected works whose rightholders are not known or cannot be found. The proposal sets out which parts can be considered as orphans, how such works can be carefully searched, the need to keep a record of careful searches and the possibility that the author of the orphan work terminates his status and requires a fair compensation. Exceptions from copyright for disabled persons and publicly accessible libraries, museums, archives and educational institutions are also introduced. The proposal also brings minor technical alignment with the European acquis in this field. In the Group of Social Democrats, we expect the process of integrated regulation of the field of copyright and related rights to be initiated as soon as possible, particularly in the work relating to the supervision of the transparency of the activities of collective organisations, as well as the functioning of the Copyright Council, which acts as a body of compulsory arbitration. In particular, collective organisations are too often given extensive insights into the unintended and unintended use of resources, which, in the case of the monopoly of the copyright market, can be particularly and very problematic. It is therefore crucial that, despite the implementation of this novel, which we will also support in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union in the Group of Social Democrats, the Ministry continues to take the initiative to prepare an integrated Copyright and Related Rights Act and to ensure more responsible and effective work of collective organisations by increasing the country's supervisory powers and by preventing abuses of the monopoly on the market of copyright and related potential grassroots practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u11	The text is given by the United Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left we will support the amendment of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The regulation of the field of orphan works is, of course, necessary, even in terms of digitisation, which is important both in terms of conservation and in particular the accessibility of these works to the public. Nevertheless, an important reservation must be raised. In the United Left, we want to have more caregivers or look on the other side so that we don’t have a guardian at all. The digitisation of these works could also be achieved in such a way as to allow the European Union to again impose on us how to regulate legislation in order to open up copyright legislation and put public interest in private matters. These orphan works are an opportunity to go beyond the concept of copyright, which is largely an artificial monopoly on ideas or cultural products in general. By going beyond the concept of copyright, we do not mean collecting or deleting authorship and anarchy, which often comes to mind by conservatives and other defenders of the old order. By going beyond, we are thinking of introducing alternative mechanisms that allow for free cooperation, dissemination and noble ideas. As an example, we can mention creative commons, which has already proved to be very successful. Of course, parallel to such redefinition in other areas – I am thinking about financing culture, economic and social security for cultural workers and the like – to regulate the situation and enable independent production for all cultural and intellectual workers. In the United Left, we advocate freedom of movement of information. This freedom of information is now opposed to the monopoly on intellectual property. This prevents technological development and the free movement of ideas and access to information and intellectual goods for all people. In the 21st century, with the development of information and communication technologies, we have every operational possibility to implement the Knowledge Password is the property of all mankind. Why this is a necessity, and last but not least, the current case in the field of copyright shows. RTV Slovenia and SAZAS have recently concluded a settlement on tariffs for the use of musical works of EUR 4.7 million. RTV Slovenia will sell Eutelsat shares for this settlement. While RTV pays more than EUR 100,000 per month for the use of music works by SAZAS. There is no need to argue that SAZAS is an organization that in an extremely controversial way makes it possible to enrich a narrow musical oligarchic elite, while exhausting almost the rest of the wider music scene. RTV Slovenia is financed in the largest proportion by a public benefit, from an RTV contribution that is paid by virtually all of us. So every month, 100 000 euros flow directly from our pockets to SAZAS, which should go towards the development of quality music and other productions, but unfortunately they are about to enrich the narrow musical elite and strengthen their monopoly. In addition, SAZAS will draw almost €5 million back from public RTV. In the United Left, we will support the change in relation to the orphan works and, with the amendment of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, we call for systematic changes in the field of copyright, which will go in the direction of allowing free division and nobility of ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u13	The word is given by the NS Group of Christian Democrats, for her mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u14	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! When we talk about exclusive rights of authors on the one hand and restrictions on the other, we can say that the biggest challenge in copyright law is the right balance, where rights reach and where exceptions begin. Every new technology and the issue of copyright management puts this balance to the test. Again and again, we are talking about amending this law. This last amendment is part of the requirements of European legislation regarding so-called orphan works. The European Commission must also constantly remind us in this area of the non-compliance of our rules with Europeans. Today's proposal for a novel is therefore a late response by our government to the second warning already given. The Directive governing the conditions for the use of these works should be transposed into our legal order by 29 October 2014. It is those protected works whose rightholders are unknown or cannot be found. Although these works are still under copyright protection, they cannot be found. Since it is therefore not possible to obtain prior consent to reproduce them, an exception is laid down for the benefit of certain public institutions by amending the law. These public institutions may use these protected works and make them available to the public if they conduct a careful search for the rightholder before doing so. If there is evidence that information could be obtained in other countries, a review of resources in these countries should also be carried out. If the author is found or defined, public institutions must cease to use this work and the author is entitled to compensation for the use of his work so far. That's what the law says. The legal license for the benefit of a disabled person also changes so that reproduction and distribution of work and public recitation for the benefit of disabled persons are free under certain conditions. Therefore, without payment of compensation, if this work is not available in the form requested and the use is directly linked to the disability of these persons, limited to its extent and is not intended to achieve direct or indirect economic benefits. Like many other parliamentary groups, we will also support the amendment of the law's amendments in NSI, but we are missing a comprehensive revision of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. We have tried to reform this law on our own several occasions, but unfortunately we have been stopped on boards. We point out the area of copyright management or the unregulated situation between holders of these rights and their users. There is a lack of control over the management of these rights and compensations, the issue of jurisdiction over the implementation of the Copyright and Related Rights Act and more. All of this, however, represents a number of reasons why a comprehensive and rapid reform of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is needed in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. The amendment of the Copyright and Related Rights Act transposes Directive 2012/28 of 25 into the Slovenian legal order. Ten. 2012. The deadline for transposition of the Directive has already expired on 29 October 2014, and the European Commission has therefore initiated a reminder procedure, which has been suspended in order to explain that the proposal for a law has already been prepared and is expected to be forwarded to the legislative procedure in the first quarter of 2015 and adopted by summer 2015. If the proposal for a law or implementation of the directive is not part of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia in time, we will have to pay a high fine for each day of delay in implementation, which would be difficult to correct. This is also the reason why the law is adopted by emergency procedure. The novel regulates the use of orphan works, i.e. those protected works whose right holder is not known or cannot be found. Since it is not possible for orphan works to obtain prior consent to reproduce them and make them available to the public, exceptions to the exclusive right of reproduction and making available to the public should be laid down for the benefit of certain public institutions acting in the public interest, thus allowing them to use protected works. The proposal for amendments to the law contains several substantive solutions. First of all, it determines which works of art are considered to be an orphan work. It is a book, a magazine, a newspaper and other text, audiovisual work, cinematographic work and phonogram, not music work. If at least one author is found, the work shall not be considered orphan unless authorised. Secondly, the law provides for beneficiaries of the use of orphan labour. These are becoming archives, libraries, museums, educational institutions, film and audio heritage institutions and public RTV organisations established in the European Union. These works may be made available to or reproduced by the public and must be reproduced in accordance with their mission of public interest. In this way, works will be made available to the public for research and study purposes. Thirdly, the law sets out how the careful search for the orphan works will be carried out and how the records of the orphan works will have to be kept. In order to prevent the transfer of beneficiaries' efforts to identify the orphan works within the EU, a single database will be available to guide all information on orphan works. Fourthly, the law provides that the found or subsequently identified author of the orphan part has the option of suspending the status of the orphan part, which means that he may also require a fair compensation for the use of his work so far. Fifthly, the law provides for a method of calculating the compensation determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for culture. Finally, I would like to point out that the law also introduces an exception to copyright for disabled persons and publicly accessible libraries, museums, archives and educational institutions, which will have the opportunity to freely make available to the public, for the purpose of research or private study, works from their collections on dedicated screens located in their premises. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the adoption of the proposed amendment is appropriate. The aim of the directive is to connect and make accessible works that cannot be traced to the authors. It would be a great shame that this orphan’s work should not be used, so we will also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u17	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the 28th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on instruction and professional education. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! For the third time in the SDS Group, we have tabled an amendment to the Vocational and Professional Education Act. All of this with the aim of linking the educational system as much as possible with the needs of the Slovenian economy and craftsmanship. According to the latest version submitted in December 2014, this time we are modifying about 20% of the text of the law. But also since December there is a fact that in Slovenia we have been talking for a very long time about the urgent link between the vocational and professional educational process and the economy and trade. We're mostly talking. But we haven't done anything since 2006. Maybe it'll be something different with the new secretary. In addition, in recent years we have seen a particularly low enrolment in vocational secondary schools, and we also have a poor economic situation, a volatile tax and social policy, and a decline in the number of enterprises in recent years, which has added to the decline in the interest of employers and students as well. Certain professions in Slovenia have almost disappeared from our daily offer. In addition, we are facing a great deal of structural unemployment for young people. Many young people, however, are leaving with these acquired professions with a belly for bread to countries that are crafts, economies and young people more favoured. What is a given system that we propose again? It is a combination of apprenticeships, that is, practical training in the company and vocational education in the school, which is a theoretical part. We had a similar model in Slovenia by 2006 and today it is best implemented in Austria, Germany and individual Scandinavian countries. Comparative analyses of the vocational and vocational education system in 25 European countries show that there is a trend everywhere to strengthen the integration of vocational and vocational education with the labour market. In Slovenia, however, we have employers who complain that, due to the lack of practical experience of young people, they have problems with their introduction into work processes. Key solutions to the bill. The employer shall take responsibility for the apprentice. The apprenticeship relationship is concluded by a apprentice's apprenticeship contract and the conditions for the employer and both the duties and rights of the employer and the apprentice are defined. The law shall add the period required for the practical training of pupils in vocational and secondary vocational schools. This period covers half the duration of the vocational education programme and 20% for secondary or vocational schools. According to our proposal, an apprentice can also be an adult who is unemployed, as additional knowledge, skills and retraining are essential in practice. During the period of the apprenticeship relationship, the apprentice shall be entitled to health, pension and disability insurance. The hours spent by the apprentice during practical training with the employer shall be counted during working hours. The law also allows modeling. The wreaths will be so easy, for example. enrolled in a home school and some modules will be able to attend another school. During the apprenticeship, the apprentice has the right to a prize. The amount of the gross prize by regulation shall be determined by the RS Government as a percentage of the average gross wage for the economy in Slovenia and shall be at least 10% in the first year, 15% in the second year and 20% in the third year. However, as we are aware in the SDS Group that the law has great financial implications, we are imposing its introduction or election to the school year 2016. The law is supposed to apply with 1. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in By 2020, according to the proposal for a law to pay the prizes to the apprentices, the state fully provides for the state and 50% of the country, 50% of the employer, after that date. The State shall also pay for the performance of master's, management or management examinations, a contribution to the conduct of these examinations. There are even smaller solutions that we have proposed in this law, but more of them during today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u19	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u20	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Vocational and Professional Education Act, tabled by the SDS Group in addition to some other issues, seeks to regulate apprenticeship in particular, which has also just been presented. I too will focus mainly on this issue. Vocational and vocational education is closely linked to the needs of the labour market, technological development of the economy and governance processes and, above all, the employability of graduates with openness to further education is a key strategic orientation for the further development of vocational and professional education. The fundamental principle of regulating and implementing vocational and professional education in Slovenia is the social partnership. This means that the system’s arrangements for this part of the education system are based on the principle that the interests of employers, workers and ministries must be coordinated in professional and professional education. In Slovenia vocational education is in some ways already regulated by the dual system, if the dual system is understood as the participation of schools and businesses in the implementation of educational programmes. As we know, both within the European Union and by employers, we have taken the initiative to introduce apprenticeships into the education system. Among other things, the European Union wants to encourage countries, through a wider introduction of apprenticeships, to promote early employment for young people, while also ensuring quality professional competence primarily with a view to raising the competitiveness of the economy. It is therefore necessary to take into account the fact that the apprentice is an educated employee when looking for systematic solutions for the introduction of apprenticeships. This means a different status as we know it today in educational contracts concluded by institutions with economies or employers that already exist. Such status therefore requires that the regulatory environment, working grounds which, of course, affect a number of areas be properly regulated: apprenticeship contract, working time, contributions, health insurance, accident insurance, regression requirements for employers and so on. The role of employers and chambers must also be well and implemented. Slovenia, as we have already heard, already has an active experience with apprenticeship. In 2006, we focused this experience mainly on the lack of an appropriate support environment for the actual implementation of this model, according to employers. Since 2006, we know that other circumstances have changed. The provisions relating to the position of the apprentice have been deleted from the Labour Relations Act, the status of one of the key stakeholders in this process has changed, that is, the Chambers, and the way insurance has undergone quite a few changes. The delays that at the time limited employers to a bolder approach to the model are still, we can say, crucial again or that we need to translate into feasibility. The bill currently under consideration already includes some of these areas or issues, such as incentives, but not all areas to be addressed, such as provisions on adequate protection of apprentices, training in certain specific jobs, youth in the workplace, that is, young apprentices, insurance and security. At the Ministry of Education, we support the reintroduction of apprenticeships, but we believe that an effective support environment must be created first and that all these issues which I have raised need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner through a specific law. In order to achieve this goal, we have already launched a number of initiatives at the Ministry, namely the creation of the apprenticeship alliance, which we are coordinating, we are also in contact with other ministries, and we are also solving the challenges or are looking for solutions to the apprentice's employment. Let me pull it up. We need a broad social consensus that will be the basis for the search for models and the enforceable implementation of the Law on apprenticeship. In doing so, I should also point out that we will help ourselves with the so-called pilot approach, including through European structural resources, and in this way by checking the established forms and concepts that we need to adopt in the social consensus, ensuring the feasibility of what we all want – youth employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u21	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Bostian Zgonc, welcome! Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to inform you of the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not oppose the idea at the 4th regular meeting of the National Assembly of February. The bill, however, did not receive a second hearing. The main reason for refusing further consideration was in some shortcomings, which were of such substantive importance that the law did not achieve its purpose. The agreement between all the partners involved was questionable and the proposed financial structure would not hold up the possibility of the budgets adopted. For the second time this year, we are looking at a marriage proposal for the introduction of the apprenticeship system in secondary and vocational education. While the competent ministry and the Government have already expressed their support for the first proposal, they have promised their marriage, and this time the government's position is similar. Marriage material must be broader and more comprehensive than the proposal for a law that is again today, or with some improvements in view of the previous proposal, before us. The introduction of apprenticeship must be based on the true desire and will of employers and on a broad and solid consensus of all affected. The correct or appropriate status of the person to be included in such a form of education and training for the profession must be established. As a result of apprenticeship status as a person in a working relationship, the labour legal aspect must be taken into account and many rights and obligations, such as pension, health and social insurance, are also derived from this status. The financial implications must be clearly demarcated, so that we know how much the country's contribution, what the economy should contribute and where the potential for funding from the European Social Fund is. It is also essential to address other issues of the education process, such as educational and educational issues. We do not see everything in this joint bill in our parliamentary group. We in the parliamentary group have always believed that it is essential that the education system and the economic sector are closely connected. This applies mainly at this level of vocational and vocational education. We are convinced that dialogue with the economy and the education system is essential in the design of educational content, in view of the traceability of development trends and the resulting needs for staff, and in the planning of such content of educational programmes and the quality of learning outcomes and competences, that students will either be employed immediately after the end of secondary schooling or that they will be able to build on their knowledge and, even after final higher education, to obtain adequate employment. In our parliamentary group, we agree that employers who practice practical work training can have a major impact on the further development of young people and their successful careers and consequently on their lives. Therefore, MEPs and Members of Desus did not oppose the idea of reintroducing dual education into our educational system, nor in the previous one. However, we want this system to work effectively to deliver long-term results in better employability for young people and to reflect the quality and usefulness of a specific job and thus contribute more broadly to economic growth and growth. It is evident that after leaving school, after vocational, secondary or higher education, employers may not be satisfied with the skills and skills acquired during the educational process. We therefore believe in the Group that linking education and practical training with work is one of the key factors for the successful integration of young people into the work process, while at the same time it is a necessary step for their long-term safe and quality employment. As we know, today's proposed form of education was once known to us, unfortunately it did not work or did not produce the expected results, since it was abolished in the time of the government of Mr Janez Janša. But today our social system is very different. The changed circumstances in the economic system and in education necessarily require a different regulatory approach to the regulation of apprenticeships and the fact is that such a system, which was in force with us 20, 25 years ago, is survived and therefore not usable. True, we could copy a fugitive and a successful example from abroad, such as. German or Austrian, but the question is whether there would be significant social differences, traditions and mental perceptions about the value of certain professions such a system would be useful for us. It is true that the proportion of enrolment in secondary and vocational schools has recently improved slightly, but we believe that this is only the first step towards the full introduction of a dual system and therefore it is essential to increase the reputation of vocational education. Unfortunately, the latter has to do with the underestimation of certain types of work, according to our assessment. In particular, it is up to employers to change their view of employees and in the context of apprenticeships to apprentices, because unfortunately in their employees they rarely see added value to their company, because for many young workers it is only a cost. Not only in the coalition contract, but also in the social agreement, the aim is to regulate apprenticeship. Given that political will also exists and is even broad enough to be able to find the best solutions together, we believe in the parliamentary group that our school system will soon be able to be complemented by this type of education. In the parliamentary group, we also believe that, given the situation, that the common language with employers is still unattainable and that the country's financial situation is still unsettling or unstable, it is possible to start with some of the experiments, so-called pilot projects, in those employers who already have a strong interest in it today, and in those professions that are rare and deficient. The gradual introduction would not only be financially sustainable but could also identify and address the shortcomings of the apprenticeship model. In the parliamentary group, we believe that in these cases we can drink a dual system in our environment so that, at some point in time, not only can we adopt an effective and feasible legal basis for apprenticeship or dual education, but this form of education can become more often used by young people as well as the current one in the context of lifelong education. Of course, this thought, or position presented, goes to a prediction that it would be difficult to support the proposed text of the law. Members and Members of the Committee expect the competent ministry to continue intensively with the work on the apprenticeship alliance project and to draw up an appropriate proposal for a law in the short term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u23	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, Secretary of State! First of all, allow me to say on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats that we welcome the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party and see it especially in the light of the opening of the debate on apprenticeships, the role of the educational system in our society and also the role of the economy in the education and training of students, students and also older or unemployed people. It is crucial to realise that structural unemployment is an important part of the most pressing issue in the present Republic of Slovenia, and especially youth unemployment. The mismatch between the education of job seekers and the needs of the labour market needs must be addressed urgently. However, in order to address this disagreement, we need a thorough and clear consensus between the social partners, a system-wide regime for the relationship between education and practical training systems and the financial capacity of the operators of these processes, both on the side of the country and on the part of the private sector. The latter was lacking in past attempts to regulate apprenticeships, and that is why the Vocational and Vocational Education Act, which was in force between 1996 and 2005, was also unsuccessful. It should be recalled that the Ministry, under the leadership of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which at the same time proposed the amendment of the law we are talking about today, has removed the apprenticeship system for these reasons. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce were critical soon after the law was enacted, as I believe they had rightly expected budgetary resources or other incentives, tax reliefs and other forms to provide practical training for apprentices. At the same time, the inadequate status of apprentices was also highlighted by a number of evaluation studies carried out by both domestic and foreign experts. The fact is that students, as well as students, need mandatory practices and that apprenticeships must be present at appropriate times in relevant sectors and in areas where this is possible. However, due to possible misinterpretation, the role of practical education must not be hampered by broader and comprehensive education. When we talk about vocational education, we need to make clear what is professional and what is practical education, which enables students to enter and compete in the labour market as a competent entry. A major role, perhaps greater than it is generally attributed to it, is the economy, of course, the real sector, which has the task of motivating young and ambitious people to work and, above all, enabling the environment, a sufficient number of vacancies within individual sectors, that the apprenticeship system is even possible or meaningful. When we try to compare ourselves with other countries where apprenticeship systems already operate in a traditional environment, we need to take into account the broader characteristics of these environments in which apprenticeship models, which are different, are implemented. For many times the effectiveness of apprenticeships is conditioned by the professional support provided by the Chambers with sectoral and collective agreements and by the associated system of certification and recognition of the relevant knowledge. Therefore, the transfer of some practice from abroad to our system can be dangerous and ineffective, as the law must include guarantees, both for apprentices and for the economy, while taking into account the specifics of the environment, the industrial pool or its absence in the Republic of Slovenia. As has already been said, in the Group of Social Democrats we understand the proposal and initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party as an additional incentive to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to continue to prepare more concrete and thorough changes in vocational education, and to include the most important element of apprenticeship in this debate, namely the Slovenian economy, Slovenian crafts and not to rush into possible transfer of practices that can operate in large industrial pools, such as Bavarian, but are not entirely suitable for smaller Slovenian systems such as Koroška and Dolenska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Once again, we have a proposal from the SDS for the introduction of apprenticeship. This proposal has been rejected a few months ago, but obviously we have to deal with the SDS at each of these times in the National Assembly, without which Slovenian parliamentary life obviously loses its last sense of salvation. The apprenticeship at first sight seems a very attractive change. We all have ideas about the old masters and professions that are dying out, but of course we need to think beyond that. The key questions are whether apprenticeship can achieve the objectives of the education system and who will benefit from the introduction of such a system and where public funding will go. The primary objective of secondary education, whether professional, professional or general, is the comprehensive development of young people. From this point of view, any training in the workplace could only be completed, but never the main pillar of education. The aim of the apprenticeship system, especially where it is developed, in German-speaking countries is to employ young people as soon as possible. Employment for young people is, of course, a key issue today, but not only for young people, but for employment at all. The registered unemployment rate is really slowing down, but it is still very high, while at the same time the vast majority of new jobs are extremely plentiful. Slovenia is first in its youth festive employment. The current solutions obviously do not work or work in such a way as to make things worse. We have a large number of young people who are highly educated and qualified, but they certainly do not find the right job. It is necessary to reverse this logic without de-qualifying these young people, preventing them from education and development, and with systematic development it is necessary to open up such jobs in the economy so that young people and all other workers can find quality jobs for decent pay. The introduction of apprenticeship, of course, is not the solution. Early employment of young people is even at a time when the required working time is constantly increasing and when workers in business do not have the opportunity to make real decisions about their working conditions, it is rather an obstacle to the overall development of young people. Instead of unilateral guidance, free sources and potential development are needed. This does not mean, of course, that we want to prevent young people from making their own decisions during education and employment. It means that public funds must be directed towards the education and cultural system, in order to remove social barriers to the free development of young people, namely poverty and unequal living opportunities. Students must have sufficient time for compulsory practices, apprenticeships and the like, and therefore should not be deprived of their broader comprehensive education and development, but in particular it is necessary to clearly distinguish what is a vocational or practical education that enables a worker to carry out a wide range of tasks, and what is training for a specific and specific work process of a specific individual employer. The latter cannot and must not be covered by public funds. From a public financial point of view, the proposal implies an additional form of subsidisation of economic activity. However, since the economy is not a harmonious community where, after neoliberal myths, we are always entrepreneurs and nothing else, but in fact, there is a conflict between workers and their employees, it is necessary to ask whose interest such subsidisation is. The answer is clear. In a system where there is no universal co-decision between workers and income-sharing where management incomes are sometimes ten times or more higher than workers' income, subsidising the economy means subsidising management and capital owners, i.e. a narrow layer of economic privileged. The proposal doesn't even cover it up. Employers, i.e. managers and capital owners, are expecting them and, of course, are already abundantly receiving large-scale State incentives or incentives from public funds. Public funds, which should by definition provide public interest, go into private pockets of capital. As we look at where these public funds come from, it is even more clear why this is a misperforming and perverse deal. Taxes have been transformed into regressive taxes in the last 15 years, and ordinary people are increasingly contributing to public funds and less and less capital. Thus, the tax money is Roma from people to capital and capital expects the introduction of workers into the new job to be paid by public cash registers. Employers see as a problem, in particular, wages or rewards for new apprentices, contributions, insurance, obligations in the event of an accident to apprentices, in the event of difficulties of the company, etc. The problem is, honest work deserves a fair payment. They take on the incomes and privileges of managers and establishments, but do not take on the task of specific training of the worker for the specific work process. In the United Left, we do not support the principle of direction which is the basis of this proposal, so in our view the law is not suitable for further consideration. The government has announced that it will prepare its solution on the basis of a initial social agreement, which aims to set a system-wide system of apprenticeships while ensuring stable and long-term funding. In this regard, I repeat, the objective must be the overall development of an individual, and the central institution cannot be a hierarchically organised company or a crafts workshop, but a public school and an accompanying institution. Students in vocational schools must receive appropriate general education. Practical education is a normal and necessary part of their education, but they must be given enough time to do so, and they must not be overloaded in any way. Finally, budgetary resources can only be allocated to vocational and professional education and to the training of a worker for work with a specific employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u27	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u28	Dear President, distinguished Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! New Slovenia supports the reintroduction of apprenticeships because we support the integration of theory with practice. Since we have been reviewing the same law for the third time with several amendments, we support it for this very reason, because we believe that it is necessary to approach this topic as soon as possible and to find appropriate solutions. We are aware, however, that perhaps the present proposal of the law does not bring all the solutions that are necessary. In Slovenia it is necessary to amend the labour legislation in order to be able to adopt and implement this law accordingly. We are aware, however, that the law must be such as to encourage young people so that they have an interest in training themselves, to educate themselves in this way, while at the same time it must be one that will encourage employers to see the meaning and benefits of it themselves. You can't do one without the other. We know that some young people prefer more practice, some also love theory. I also taught in high school for a number of years, and I have found and learned this over and over again. Some people are very good at work, but they don't like to sit in school benches. Such a system also allows us to motivate those who prefer more practices that are very useful in the workplace. Of course, the theory is also important. And that's a combination of both theories and practices. I often hear from employers that they don't get a young man who can properly operate their machines. We know that some machines are already very difficult to understand. And so it is right to introduce such a system and then someone can also be trained in the workplace. Of course, without an appropriate mentor to guide and train him in this regard, this is not possible either. Therefore, the law must be such that it will actually encourage young people so that they will be educated in this way as those who will carry out this schooling. We must also be aware that, in fact, many successful entrepreneurs today have started in this way. First as apprentices, masters and then those who started their activities in the garage and advanced to a large company with many employees. That is why we believe in Nova Slovenija that this is also one of the important perspectives both for the development of staff and for the development of municipalities, regions and countries. That we have the right skills for the right professions or that people with certain professions are then also employed, that we are in the past, or that we are still being over-educated, for non-employable professions, which we do not actually need, but are modern or have schools that train for such professions and, on the other hand, we have not reduced departments for such professions that we do not actually need. In New Slovenia we support this law because we want to reintroduce the apprenticeship system. But we are aware of our shortcomings. Yesterday's meeting with the Minister in our parliamentary group, I think he was very good, and I believe that the Minister also has a sincere intention of addressing these issues and actually getting this kind of training in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! Efforts to implement and develop apprenticeships have been high on the political agenda in recent years. Many European countries, including Slovenia, face high structural unemployment of young people, insufficient connectivity and non-compliance of the education system with labour market needs, as well as a lack of component and possibly employable staff. We have been talking more and more about the reintroduction of the apprenticeship system than some European countries have. Therefore, for the second time this year, by the same proposer and in a somewhat complementary proposal, we have decided on the amendment of the Vocational and Vocational Education Act, which envisages the reintroduction of the apprenticeship system into secondary, vocational and vocational education. At this point, I would like to point out that in the SMC Group, we are responsible for the need to strengthen or change vocational and professional education, which would allow for a faster and better response to the needs of the labour market and to meet certain conditions for the introduction of the apprenticeship system. However, the reintroduction of the apprenticeship system is a complex issue that needs to be addressed in several legislative areas and in close cooperation with the social partners. As in January's consideration of the draft law in the SMC, we believe that the proposed amendment is based on the wrong belief that only one law can be changed, namely the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, solve the whole issue of apprenticeship. The proposal for a law before us today could only be implemented in an integrated manner, due to its complexity and its interconnectivity, on the basis of amendments to several laws. Among other things, the Labour Relations Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Safety and Health Act, and others. In the SMC, we see such an integrated approach as crucial, but unfortunately the proposalers do not foresee it with their proposals. For these reasons, we see in the SMC in particular the need for a new and comprehensive apprenticeship law that would incorporate all the necessary elements on a normative basis. In the context of the apprenticeship system, many like to compare Slovenia with Central European countries, where the apprenticeship system has been in operation for many years. In the SMC Group, we believe that it is imperative to follow good practices in countries where the apprenticeship system has a long tradition and is successfully introduced into practice, while blindly taking on solutions is not meaningful. The successful implementation of the apprenticeship system is also closely linked to the economy. Swiss data show, for example, that the average real job earns 7% of the profits, while the fictitious job for education alone averages 70 % of the loss. Unfortunately, the last Slovenian companies today are unable to afford it, and last but not least, we have to ask ourselves what apprenticeship means in Slovenian tradition, especially in the light of the fact that we simply removed from the law 10 years ago the arrangement that allowed the exercise of apprenticeship. The reintroduction of the apprenticeship system is one of the key aspects of employers' expectations and a clear sharing of responsibility for the apprentice's responsibility. The apprenticeship system achieves its true purpose only if the apprentice is truly an apprentice and not just an assistant. As we are aware, the current situation by employers' representatives, the re-establishment organisations of the apprenticeship system is not favourable. It is true that employers need to be encouraged to do so, but with the clear sharing of the responsibility of both the State and the people and especially of them, apprenticeships can only be carried out qualitatively in environments where the training of employees will be the priority of the company and where employers will sincerely believe that education and training meet economic needs. As a result of these and other considerations, which are not precisely designed by the proposed legislative provisions, we do not support the amendment in the SMC Group. Once again, I stress that we do not reject the priorities of apprenticeship. In the SMC, we are still committed to the need to carry out activities in the future in order to introduce as soon as possible a quality apprenticeship system, but first in those economic environments that will demonstrate a serious and sincere interest. We therefore expect coordinated solutions from the Ministry of the Interior to restore apprenticeship and strengthen vocational education in general as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u31	The word is given by the SDS Group, for which Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you for saying a nice hello to the secretary with the team. Extremely high levels of youth unemployment in Europe require immediate action by Member States in the field of vocational and vocational education. The European Union's response is a broad initiative following the introduction of apprenticeships into educational systems. Comparative analyses of vocational and vocational education systems in 25 European countries indicate that there is a trend everywhere to strengthen the integration of vocational and vocational education with the labour market, that there is also a trend of education links between different educational routes and that countries are updating qualifications systems. We have already included a dual system in our education system in 1996, but because of the various factors it did not work. The economic situation, the failure of certain industries or companies and companies, the downsizing of certain industries have also led to a sharp decline in the reputation of certain professions. Employers often claim that students are not qualified enough and ready to work. They say they do not have sufficient practical competence at the end of vocational schools. Thus, 67% of teachers and 84% of principals estimate that students can be good or very quality at work or at work in production. However, only 39% of employers, or nearly half of employers, feel that secondary schools are somehow training students for their profession, 12% of them think they are very poorly qualified to work. In any case, these assessments can be based on different criteria, what it means to educate young people well and qualitatively. However, we can argue that employers certainly know and are likely to be much more attentive to the qualifications of students. Over the years, certain vocational schools or programmes in the field of vocational education have also been abolished. Some vocational schools, however, are on the verge and basically live from school year to school year. The numbers show that from 1998 to 2013, enrolment in vocational education declined significantly, and enrolment in high school increased significantly. There are also certain professions and services. Some of our professions are literally dying. In order to avoid youth unemployment and at the same time to provide technological and craft services, we want the SDS to reconnect the education system and the economy. When we read the views of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the opinions of individual employers, trade unions and, last but not least, the government's views on the proposal of this Act, we can conclude that this is what we all want. The proposal to amend the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education seeks to upgrade existing legislation in this field so that a dual system can be made possible with the existing system. The employer raises a reliable future cadre and thus ensures the quality of production or service. The current system and the future apprenticeship system will coexist. The new system will be implemented primarily where successful companies and companies are. This also means that the reputation of professions in some sectors can be raised. The apprentices are allowed to consider the time of practical education at work, which will be an additional incentive for young people to decide on vocational education. The law introduces a system of apprenticeships when the employer carries out education together with the school. In doing so, it shall determine all legal relations and forms of work with the apprentices. At the same time, it sets out the possibility that adults who are in the employment agency programme will be educated as apprentices. The apprenticeship is encouraged by the State by funding the awards of apprentices and mentors to the employer. The apprenticeship system allows young people to see the meaning of education, which is, of course, to the satisfaction of the chosen course of education and the later option of employment. This will also avoid fictitious enrolment of students. The apprenticeship plays a key role in the fight against youth unemployment, as it provides young people with the skills and experience sought by employers. We must all be aware that time is running relentlessly, that more and more young people are unemployed and are increasingly going abroad. The opinion of the Government shows a positive attitude towards the proposed law. This gives hope that we will come to common conclusions on this subject, that a system of apprenticeships must be introduced into our educational system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will certainly support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Vocational and Vocational Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u33	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, I give the floor to Mr Tomaž Lisc, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you, President, for your word. Allow me, because I've only had five minutes in the introduction to comment this time and what kind of thing to add. First of all, I welcome the initiative of the Ministry of Cooperation in this project. As we found out the last time during the meeting, it is only right that we meet several times, because, as the Minister said, one of the shareholders will also be the opposition. The only thing I'm afraid of is getting not only the law through this apprenticeship, but, above all, getting it out in practice, I'm afraid that, you know, if you talk too long, you're becoming increasingly divided by your views, and the deal that is supposed to be point-to-point, usually pimped or not. I am particularly pleased that, unlike the first to second draft of the law that we tabled, when in the second attempt I very much circumscribed officials in the ministry when it went on, although the government has changed, almost for the government's copy-paste opinion, today is quite a new, completely different opinion of the government, which means that the new minister and the team have only devoted a little time to it. We also welcome her a priori of non-controversy in the parliamentary group. In particular, we welcome the fact that apparently the minister or government has decided definitively that we really need a new law in the field of apprenticeship, not that we patch it up in the existing law on vocational and professional education. More. Not that I am boasting, I am sure that there are some in this bill in 30 articles, but another article, which has, I think, from A to R, that there will be at least half of our law implemented in this law in the final text of the law on apprenticeship, which I hope we will get soon. Of course, some will be added by the other stakeholders, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, I hope that the rest of the ministries as well, that the law will not remain solely on the shoulders of the Ministry of Education, but that, above all, the Minister of Economy and Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will see some complementary contribution to this law. Unfortunately, however, I am 100% convinced that this apprenticeship law will also be given its bureaucracy and several articles will be devoted to the records that employers will have to arrange, to the records that the ministries will have to have, and not least to the records that educational institutions will have to have if we want to adopt this law. For the last time in my meeting, I have appealed to the Minister to really hope that when we have this law, that a third of the articles will not be devoted to records and that it will finally be as if the main emphasis of this law is what the so-called apprentice journal will be, but that it will be only one accompanying activity that the apprentices will have to take advantage of in carrying out both practical and theoretical skills in school. As far as the opinions of the groups are concerned, I must say that they are very correct and thank you. Despite the fact that the representative of the United Left said that we obviously couldn't do it without the SDS, I must say that of all the others, there was a very correct position. This means that, after all, this debate is welcome, perhaps as a formal one, unfortunately, because we are only in public space, including the pressure on the minister and the government to get the government law as soon as possible. And let me take advantage of this introduction so that I don't come out too many times. Perhaps it was too little for this promotion. At this time, I have learned that the Centre for Vocational Education, through EU funds, has regulated a number of activities over the last three, four years in this area. I believe that in this pilot project, mentioned by the minister, only apprenticeship would gradually come to life. My, I hope it is realistic, the plan is that, by 2020, when we have this European perspective, this pilot project is so developed that after 2020 we just have to decide how to proceed with European funds and how to involve the state budget and the involvement of all stakeholders in these financial resources in order to make it work. Since I'm already in finance, I have to say that we also had a meeting with the Chamber of Commerce, and I have to say, if we were at the same meeting, there would be an apple dispute here. Of course, craftsmen want the country to make as much contribution as possible, some European funds and some minimum amount themselves, while the minister wants as many European funds as possible, that employers contribute something themselves and that at the Ministry, as much as possible, the meal you have to distribute will remain for other activities, but not that apprenticeship is just to draw funds from the state budget, and then in practice what will be. Perhaps we have talked too little about this reputation of apprenticeship today. We have talked a lot about cases of good practice in Austria, Germany. There apprenticeship is not something underestimated, but just a starting point for young people who enter the educational system, but also for work training processes, that they once have a desire to earn well. That's what I think is every young man's wish. But someday they'll become masters. This is also one of the key issues that we must ask ourselves in this exercise of apprenticeship. If we don't have masters or mentors who are going to educate apprentices, these apprentices are never going to be masters. Unlike the United Left, we have an agenda of action with us, and we may already be small in the last few years. But especially with my younger fellow Members, we have little difficulty in terms of traineeships, apprenticeships, because we understand young people. I know that Desus has some other forms of action, that he has another target group, but above all the younger members of the SDS think that this age of young people between 15 and 25 years, namely apprenticeship, apprenticeship and everything else, housing issues and so on are crucial if we want to talk about some development model of Slovenia in 2030. That I won't be too long. Examples of good practices abroad, I was somewhat disturbed by SMC implementation when you said that we had taken on something blindly. I will dare say as one of the main authors of this law, yes, I have studied such an Austrian, German model that is closest to me, and probably to all Slovenians. But if it is possible to copy-paste, perhaps in some part, but we know that copy-paste is valid, but it needs to be slightly complemented or adapted to our Slovenian system both in the field of education and in the field of taking responsibility by employers, because in those areas we also do not have copy-paste models. We may still have some sort of copy-paste model of the former system that needs to be slowly removed from these cases. As I told the minister last time, copy-paste with adjustments, with this brainstorming, and as soon as possible until the final introduction. That I would not be misunderstood when, above all, some said that we were doing something in the marriage, but we were only taking over, I was trying mainly in this last version of the law, in fact, it was my idea that the system of apprenticeship, in addition to the perception that young people must go to school, were getting as close to this relationship as possible to the classical relationship of workers – the employer. That's why it also bothered me when you said that the connection to labour law was to comply with the health legislation. However, only if the viewers have a feeling, Article 5b does well state that part of the apprenticeship that takes place in the workplace is subject to the provisions of the law governing working relationships, unless otherwise provided for in this law. And also in Article 5, the Insurance Age states, "at the time of the apprenticeship relationship, the apprentice shall have the right to health insurance and pension and disability insurance in accordance with this law." I think this is a key debate, which will also take place mainly with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce when the Ministry is negotiating. Like I said, they have a slightly different view. One is the view of the Ministry, and one is the view of craftsmen or employers. Let's say at the meeting they said, we object to the fact that the apprentices are minors, we object to the fact that the apprentices are adults. The problem is a collective agreement, a regression claim that is within pension law. Above all, on issues of negligence, they find it very controversial, and they want to resolve this before we put in place a system of apprenticeships. They do not want, at least that was the case, I hope that I was not misunderstood that health insurance is not part of this work, which employers must also consider when we are talking about apprenticeship. For them, one of the key issues is how to regulate the working relationship and, on the other hand, the status of the student. And a few more of these things are about rewards and the like. I must say, when I was writing the law in red, I was underscoring that we might have gone in this process a little too much in that the apprentice was already an exclusive form of the worker - employer relationship. But I think that someone who is 20% in employers or even 50% in vocational education is right to get to know him as soon as possible and as easily as possible after the completion of the educational process, but not that we have not only students in vocational schools, we have high school graduates, we have even graduate doctors who come to the labour market once and have no idea how to get out of the educational model into the work process, and they are already dealing with these various bureaucratic obstacles. I will not mention, perhaps it would be wise to list these recent changes mainly to Members of the United Left, for whom I sometimes do not feel that they have any contact with real life at all, or that they may be a little bit on vacation or solidarity with colleagues in Greece with at least one leg. I got one text message in the middle, so how can you listen to these freezes from the United Left, but it's up to the others. Let them at least read these key changes from December 2014 to today. I must say that if my colleagues from the United Left read this law, they would not speak so badly about the positions they had, but at least they would support the proposaler's intention. So much for the intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u35	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u36	Dear President, Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Initially, I would like to explain, perhaps Mr Lisco was not clear enough that Desus was in favour of vocational education or a dual education system. This was very widely explained by our colleague in Desus' position. I must also point out that I agree with the assessment made by the applicant in the proposals for the adoption of this law, as well as with the objectives of this law. However, I must point out that my dilemmas are primarily of a financial nature. Both the economy and the state in the current situation do not yet have the opportunity to support such a law as proposed by Mr Lisec or the SDS. Our Group of Members also stands in this position. That is why I am also interested in what is going on with these European funds. Mr Lisec points out that European funds could make a significant contribution to the implementation of this law and would ask the Minister to explain further how these European funds are, how and in what proportion they can be expected in proportion to the resources that the economy and the state should contribute. With regard to these funds, I would like to say that, perhaps further, when this law is being drawn up by the Ministry of Education, this law would also take into account a slightly more rational aspect of the spending of these funds. In particular, I have stopped at the proposal contained in this proposal for a law that an equal working relationship is essentially with employees, in order to pay all contributions, because they are high contributions, whether paid by anyone already pays them or by the State or by the employer, it is necessary to consider this status. Then I wonder, this would also be a question for the Ministry: what have they done in this area from January to today? In January, the first SDS proposal was rejected, what has been done to date and, in fact, when can we hope for at least some time frame to get this law, because I think it will be a broad benefit from this law. In doing so, I would particularly like to stress my agreement with the position expressed by my colleague Ludmila Novak, so that I would not repeat her words, but I really think that this will encourage young people significantly. Many, as she has said from her own practice, are those who have many practical tendencies, talents, not those of expertise, and we will be able to get excellent experts from the practical field of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u37	The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the initiatives and challenges and, of course, all evaluations and, above all, reflections, which are very constructive. Let me first say what has been done recently to speed up the implementation of the law on apprenticeship, I think that we all really want it, and that we will activate it, I can say all the roads in the ministry, so that we can move to this goal as soon as possible. In agreement and preparation, in particular, coordination is called the Alliance's apprenticeship proposal, which is somehow the first point for an agreement between all partners and stakeholders, which we must take together here for the sake of good feasibility of apprenticeship. There are also European funds in the plan, as I have already mentioned. As you know, during the planning period of all projects or, I can say, the structural content that will be covered by these funds and, of course, we want to get them right for the purpose of encouraging the development of the apprenticeship model first – and it has already been mentioned here that they would approach this pilotly, that within a model that is coherently linked to all stakeholders, we find those examples of professions, employers, including all those who want to enter this form, to first check on individual pilot cases whether the established model or concept works. In doing so, we also encourage the possibility of obtaining funds as some kind of incentive for employers to enter into this first-line model, which, as I say, must first be consensually agreed with all stakeholders. I think that this is such a step-by-step way of actually introducing verification in the field, especially if I so express myself, because it is from past experience, especially from 1996-2006 that it has been clear that the most prudent solutions are simply to be found in the dialogue with employers. I would point out, however, that this step-by-step method of introduction must then be followed by systemic integration. How and how to introduce this also through financial foundations is something that we will discuss further. I think it is too fast to say this right now, but we certainly want systematic implementation to strengthen not only the employability of young people, but, above all, the early employment of young people on the basis of practical experience, the learning content associated with experience in the field of individual work, in order to present the value of apprenticeship in this way in a positive light and in the light of rescue, we can also say, the development of a wide range of professions and at the same time the structural mismatches that are taking place in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u39	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Prepare Mr Andrej Chuš and Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! That there is a need to change something about vocational and professional education in this country, we say, I think everything has been going on since the financial and economic crisis since 2008. From then on, the need for good and well-trained staff in Slovenia has been growing. I can tell we're just turning around in some vicious circle. If I just mention, as my colleague Lisec said, that we have repeatedly considered the proposal for a law on vocational and professional education and have not moved to a more specific goal from one point to another, then it seems to me that now is a very time, because otherwise we will simply fall asleep and young people will see no point in why they should be educated at all. In particular, I would like to point out that in the economy, even when we go with the New Slovenia Group on the ground when we go among people – I must say that the last visit to Prlecia has remained in such an exciting memory and feeling – we see how high technology some companies are engaged in. I'm not going to talk about individual companies, but there are extremely successful companies. I asked the owner or management staff what their employment problems might be. He said they had to raise a fitter for themselves from about three to six years. I am talking about high-tech, where high-school or higher-school editors who work on the international market through their company speak two foreign languages and are also very financially stimulated. They also say that they must be raised from at least 3 to 6 to be able to work on their own. I think there's a lot of emphasis on that. And I said, "Well, what if you guys got this one before you, maybe into some kind of dual system?" He replied, "Of course, this worker would certainly have a shorter introduction time, he could also send him, for example, to Switzerland for some projects, probably two to three years less work, because he would already know the technology of the company." I think this is the right way. A few of my fellow Members in here are professors who say that not all students are such that they want to have a broad view, but simply want to get to a profession where they know something and where they can do something. We can't all say that everyone wants general knowledge. I know quite a few young people who just want to say, "Oh, I'm not going to school, I just want to work to close books." Even if they are later found, we have a system, and the system must also allow that if it later sees that it is necessary to build up its knowledge through education, that it is possible. That's what's happening right now. I am sure, Madam Minister, that you will follow this, but I just want to say what is missing. A successful company in Pivska simply does not find any good welders, there are simply no good welders, there are no workers on CMC devices. I wrote down a little, Madam Minister, you said that the support environment should be examined. Actually, I was wondering what you meant by the word "supporting environment." Are they entrepreneurs? Then you need to connect more with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Is it a supportive environment to make an appropriate law in other ministries? Probably about insurance, too. It seems to me that one very important solution is also in this law to allow the apprentice to count the time of practical education at work, which I think is an additional incentive for young people to decide on vocational education and to make regular progress from year to year. I think that's a good thing. But I understand your fears when you said what it would be like to be insured by apprentices, how it would be in the event of an accident. However, I think that this is already a pressing problem that the economy has to solve because many entrepreneurs say that legislation is changing so rapidly and so badly in support of entrepreneurs that there is a risk and, I will say, an accident at work is such a burden to independent entrepreneurs, I am talking to such micro-enterprises that have up to 5 employees to really think, not least about abandoning their entrepreneurship or their trade. On this side we also need to understand entrepreneurs who are actually afraid to let this go, but I think that the advantage that we gain from introducing such a way of education is the one that needs to be followed and then all the other support to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u41	Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Kotnik and Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate on changes to the law to achieve greater integration of the economy and the education system takes place on 15 July. July 15th is a very special day, about which I will say more below. However, I certainly support my fellow Member, Mr Lisco, who, I will say, is making every effort to enable young people to have a better future, a better education system, and I hope that there will be more such initiatives in the future, but of course that these initiatives will also be adopted. Since high school, young people, especially during their studies, have often heard that only theoretical knowledge acquired in the course of their studies is not enough for a life and a successful career. The knowledge gained by studying, reading textbooks and books is essential, but this is far from enabling young people to carry out all the necessary tasks in life in a qualitative and professional manner. However, when we talk about the dual education system and the integration of the economy with the educational system, there have been many discussions in the past, we can go back to 2013, when Minister Pikalo, who also took part in a meeting with the representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia for greater integration and participation of the economy with education on both sides, both by students and by the Ministry, can also go to the Youth 2010 study prepared by the Office for Youth. Here I would like to quote a statement made by Davor, aged 22. The people who finish college are unemployed because the system pumps them with knowledge, which in the real economy means 10% of usable knowledge. All of us note that there is a need for additional knowledge and skills that young people usually acquire, unfortunately, only through informal education. And we can go a little bit wider, not just connecting with the economy, but also the skills of public performances, organisations, computer skills, practical knowledge and could even list. I would like to quote further from the Slovenian youth delegate to the United Nations. The General Assembly of the United Nations has identified all the more important skills and skills that the educational system has not yet provided. To this end, it recalls the importance of investing in the development of young people's skills and skills, so the United Nations decided to declare 15 July a global youth skills day. To this end, the United Nations has also developed the term 'global competence', which seeks to promote areas where young people can access greater influence in the employment sector while at the same time helping to achieve sustainable development objectives. In order for an individual to be globally competent, he must develop knowledge specifically from the following areas: education, civil society and the economy. The United Nations also recognises the need for young people to become acquainted with the economy, with the real sector, so that we too will remain globally competitive. I recall that all of our efforts by our Group in the past are also my mandate, which is already the third attempt to change the education system, i.e. the transition to dual education. As the proponent has already said at the outset, I think this is the best version we could have prepared after our best efforts in the opposition. Above all, this was also a problem of the Ministry's lack of response in the past, when we simply read the government's position and could not begin anything with it. The economy continues to pay prizes for apprentices and mentors, so the law also proposes that a major part of the implementation of this programme be transferred to a country which should encourage their interest in the implementation of education through subsidies to employers. The system could also be successfully financed by European funds. At the same time, I would like to say that the dual system allows the apprentice to count the time of practical education at work, which will be an additional incentive for young people to decide on vocational education and to make regular progress from year to year. The proposed amendment will also allow modularity according to the programme and institutions. Students and apprentices can be enrolled in the mother school and some modules will be able to attend at another school. This will significantly expand the offer of educational content for pupils and apprentices, while streamlining the system. In the SDS Group, we have also tabled this amendment of the law by proposing that the secondary school, where a trade workshop is possible, allow spaces and devices to be rented free of charge to their best graduates, who can start their business activity in these premises, to be established on the market for a limited period of time and then enter a separate career. As I have repeatedly appealed to the National Assembly, as a legislative body and body, to step together and to seek the best and best solutions that will drink water both on paper and in practice, we have put this law into first reading primarily with the desire to complement it properly and to find the best possible solutions until the next hearing. I myself will support the proposed solution and all other solutions that will go in the direction of linking the education system to the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u43	Mrs. Irena Kotnik has the word to prepare the mag. Jana Jenko and Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u44	Dear President, distinguished ministers and colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the amendment proposed by the SDS is to establish or strengthen the link between the economy and the educational system and in the final phase of apprenticeship. I agree with this, but I advocate the gradual and pilot introduction of apprenticeship as a basis for reducing labour market mismatches and increasing youth unemployment. We must recognise that the success of the apprenticeship system is also dependent, or mainly, on the condition of the economy, as apprenticeship can stand and develop only if jobs exist. I therefore believe that the apprenticeship initiative must come primarily from the economy, and the role of the State is to create the right conditions. In this regard, it is necessary to consider which sectors are where apprenticeships in practice could actually be implemented. These are rarer professions, qualifications and up to the qualifications of the unemployed. On the other hand, it is necessary to address the question of how to raise the value of vocational education for both young and old, as well as the employer's commitment to teach the apprentice everything he needs to do for a good job, a profession and that the apprentice wants to learn. This also means incentives for both actors and a clear definition of the responsibility and responsibilities of both actors, or that the law will be prepared in close cooperation between all social partners. Here, colleague Marinka Levičar also highlighted the problem of funding and that is why I also see a close link between all social partners, among all ministries, not only between employers and apprentices, which we think most at first, but also between the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and, as I said earlier, among all ministries. In the proposal's view, this paper would help to avoid youth unemployment. However, I do not believe that apprenticeship is a miraculous remedy against youth unemployment. It will only be successful in environments where employers believe in education and training and that it meets economic needs. As we have heard many times today, it is a key condition of the employer's interest to fill the job with a man who will learn and belong to the company. The Ministry of Education, as we have already heard today, is indeed in favour of this area and wants to create an appropriate regulatory environment with all stakeholders for the successful implementation of apprenticeships, while it must be acknowledged that these activities have already begun to take place. The Employment Organisations have already been offered the signing of a special agreement by the Alliance for apprentices, as they know in countries with a long-standing apprenticeship tradition. And here I would refer to my colleague Lisco, because I myself have read how apprenticeships are carried out in other countries, and I agree with him that this is not a copy-paste issue, but that we need examples of good practice that we can bring into our space, and yet we need to take into account the specifics of our environment and, here perhaps, add, part of our culture. They are also preparing professional basis for changes and additions to programmes at all levels of vocational and vocational education. There is a need for a number of legislative bases that will allow for a uniform and comprehensive functioning of the apprenticeship system. Here is already the answer to colleague Ivo Dimic, who presented the opinion of employers that there are too many irregular legal frameworks, and I think that is also one of the reasons that some employers are afraid to join this consensus and work with apprentices. I do not agree with some colleagues who see the role of the education system only in creating thinking and enlightened citizens, but not workers who should comply with labour market requirements. I do not see subordination here, but I see cooperation between employers and apprentices, for whom it is crucial to get sufficient quality knowledge so that they can decide for their profession on the basis of their abilities, their knowledge and their interests. As I pointed out at the outset, apprenticeship should be introduced gradually and pilotly. Only then will we be able to assess whether the Slovenian environment will truly have the expected and desired effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u45	The word has magic. Jana Jenko, prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to everyone, especially the ministers with the team! We have dealt with the introduction of apprenticeships in this National Assembly several times, especially on the opposition's proposals. I find it very interesting that most apprentices need an apprentice. In some ways, they say that there is a lack of specific education in the workforce. But when apprenticeship existed, somehow everyone criticized it, it didn't come alive. There's something I'm not good at with these employers' statements about why they didn't live at the time. I have a feeling that employers want to put all the financial burden on the country, which is unacceptable, at least for me. In this condition, in which the country is still in a state of economic growth, we cannot afford to do so. This proposal to amend the law that is before us today offers some solutions, but is still in many places incorrect, particularly in terms of changing labour law. Here I have a statement by the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which states that even before the introduction of apprenticeship, the issue of regression claims needs to be addressed, since Slovenian employers have to pay enormous costs in case of an accident at work and accidents resulting from negligence cannot be protected at all. And that should be settled in the law as well. However, this proposed proposal does not have this law, it does not regulate. Then we also have apprentice's hours here. Will they be able to work at night or not, during the holidays and so on? Then we have mentoring here. As I've noticed, this would be offered by the Ministry. And that's quite something. The fact that the employer can properly educate his already employed worker without any costs is quite a hindrance. To expect everything from the state, unfortunately, it's not going to work. However, I strongly agree with the introduction of a pilot project that will draw funds from the EU, but we do not have our own resources. Once again I appeal to the economists, something you will also have to contribute to, not just waiting for what the state will give. We are always listening only to the burdens of the economy, but it is always forgotten that the decommissioning of the economy in part of the contributions was at least half a year ago, and we have not seen this effect in the economy in practice. That way, I will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u47	Here you are, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you. After all, I thought I could only stop by at the end, but let me have one last discussion, just about the burden of the apprentice. Article 5g shall bear the title Charging of the apprentice. I will start with what we have now proposed again, not what was already in the bill. "The apprentice cannot be trained in the employer on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays and holidays. An apprentice can't do overtime. The employer shall not impose, irrespective of his age, works which, under the law governing working relationships, may not be carried out by workers who have not yet reached the age of 18 years." That's a third change, and I'm not going to steal your time. But I suggest, Article 5th, the load of the apprentice, roughly says what it's all about. But if something's not finished yet, we're still at first reading. Also, given that the obvious law will not go through this first sieve, there is a possibility of a public debate, a possibility of a second hearing. I also strongly appeal to the Minister when she introduces the law to follow a regular procedure, to hold a public debate or all these parliamentary mechanisms that are available so that we can finally get a law that will in practice "drink water". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with a team, fellow Members and fellow Members! I myself will support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. A little over 20% have been amended, as opposed to the previous proposal we proposed earlier this year, which you also rejected. I found something interesting on the Internet at the High School for Gastronomy and Tourism, what a dual system for cooks and waiters should look like. "In the dual system, vocational education is provided to the employer and to the vocational school, theoretical education is carried out and practical in the company. Part of the practical education is also done in school. The Chambers, Economics and Crafts, shall issue an invitation to the employer for each school year. Those who decide on education under the dual system must sign with the employer a learning contract specifying their and employers' rights and obligations. The contract must be registered with the competent chamber. By signing a learning contract, an individual acquires the status of apprentice, allowing him to be recruited into a vocational school implementing a dual system. The apprentice belongs during the apprenticeship period of the award for the entire duration of the education, not only during practical education with the employer. The apprentice shall have six months of insurance for one year of education. During the apprenticeship period, the intermediate test of practical competence before the professional committee of the competent chamber shall be carried out, the content and method of intermediate test shall be specified in the test catalogue. Conditions for inclusion: successfully completed primary school or lower vocational school, concluded apprenticeship contract, appropriate medical certificate. The apprentice finishes his education when he completes his final exam. With the final exam, the apprentice is prepared for direct entry to work without training. Content of the final examination: for a professional chef written and oral examination from Slovenian, oral examination from food and product or service from cooking with defence; for a profession waiter written and oral examination from Slovenian, oral examination from catering and services from the service with defence." It is precisely this dual school system or the establishment of apprenticeship that would allow us to once again give some impetus to professions that are slowly disappearing to give the economy a signal that we are also encouraging Members and Members to improve the situation in a given area. The basic problem of education currently in Slovenia is that young people do not prepare well enough in the practical sense to come to the labour market. We know that while employers commend young people for coming professionally or theoretically, which is the problem, it is the practice. Every employer says, we pay taxes, we pay all the contributions, this is also about education, and then we basically get the staff that we have to educate on our account. This is said not only to pay taxes, contributions to finance the Slovenian education system, of course, but also to all other citizens and citizens by paying taxes, we must then use our money to educate the apprentice or the employee appropriately. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to this, that those professions that are practically disappearing, which have also been evaluated in such a way that all of us, because I was among them, have enrolled in high schools, many parents. I'm from the generation when they were talking, go study, then you'll have a good job working there in public administration, where the job is guaranteed that you won't be small, that you won't be quiet, and so on. Today, we see that these professions are appreciated, that they are lacking, that they are much more respected by those who really make a quality product than those who, at the window of the administrative units and what I know, are also more annoying to those who do these quality products and services, by preventing red tape from being destroyed by new taxes. Even though we are talking about introducing apprenticeships, it brings many more. It will bring about measures that we will have to take for a more favourable business environment. However, we need to encourage employers in this way too, I agree with some predecessors, not only that they are expected from the country, but that they are also making a contribution. I can see here myself, three months ago, we were talking about the dual school system, the Members of the European People's Party under 35. We had some examples of Switzerland, Austria, Germany, and as a bad example, for example, they highlighted the dual system that Belgium has, where apprentices do not do the right things, where they mostly have them for – as we have already said here many times, and this can also be a problem of this apprenticeship – for copying, for cooking coffee and the like. But I think that those employers who are aware of the importance of having an apprentice, who can then be educated, will one day be a master, that he himself will continue to introduce new ones who will come to see that such employers make sure that such an apprentice will also do the work for which they need him. And in my opinion, it will be significantly more beneficial than now that we have the Youth Guarantee, when you have to be in the Employment Service for three months to be employed, in case your employer hires you for an indefinite period of time, that two years is justified in paying contributions, maybe this Youth Guarantee fund, that is, the Youth Guarantee offered by the European Union, redirected you to co-finance the traineeship and to co-finance the apprenticeship. I agree with the Minister, first of all, some pilot projects should be carried out to see how the response of the economy would respond, what would be the response of the education system, especially in those professions that are most critical. We have just seen that once again we had a very successful generation of graduates, and that somehow even for the deficient professions there is a renewed interest, let's say for the chefs to help, I believe, also broadcasts such as the Restaurant looking for the boss, the Master Chief and so on, who promote such professions in a highly positive light. The media should also do a number of things to stimulate again interest in low-income professions. As has already been said, I will support this law of the Slovenian Democratic Party, although it is unlikely that it will be adopted, but I call on the Minister, in this mandate, to come with the law without waiting for another five years, even though the matter must be considered. I believe that many proposals that are useful and which would improve the situation in this area can also be taken directly from this law. Thank you, Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go, Mrs. Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, the rest of you are present! Let me introductoryly just answer my colleague Mahnič that it is not really a question today whether to introduce a system of apprenticeship or not. The question is how to bring this system together, to be sustainable, to be permanent, not to happen to us in 2006 and to be suitable for one apprentice or ten thousand in case such a need arises. For some time now, we have found that our entire education system, and especially secondary vocational education, does not follow the needs of the market and the needs of the economy. The regulation of this part of education or apprenticeship has several positive applications in society. Among them, the most important thing we have heard today is the early employment of young people or the reduction of structural unemployment. We have also heard about how today's vocational education system works. In the system we separate two parts, theoretical and practical, partly by the school, and partly by teaching contracts with the employer. After this new apprenticeship system, this practical part should be fully implemented with the employer and become the carrier of all education. Schools are able to fill 20% of the curriculum themselves today, i.e. an open curriculum, thus connecting with the local economic environment, but in practice this part remains often unused. The development of apprenticeship programmes is highly dependent on employers' efforts to provide teaching places and to meet the needs of the economy. We must admit that the current responses are not the most favourable. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to first define the status of apprentice, which we have already discussed many times: whether it is an employee of an employer who goes to school, or whether it is a student who is part of practical training and conducts it with the employer. When we have this status defined, a number of issues need to be settled: the procedure for the invitation to tender for apprenticeships, contractual relations between apprentices, workers, employers and schools, the working age of apprentices and so on. It is true that this new version of the law that we are dealing with today is complemented mainly in the field of labour law, but it is also reflected in some segments of the shortcomings. For example, preventive medical examinations of students, training in safety at work, purchase of protective equipment. The proposal for this law mentions the starting points for the preparation of programmes prepared or modified by the CPI, not the upgrading of these educational programmes for the purposes of apprenticeship. Therefore, in order to successfully develop apprenticeship as a form of vocational education or as a specific form of working relationship, marriage solutions should be found which will place apprentice status in different laws that currently do not regulate the details of mutual work and learning. For this reason, we should cut into some laws and change them. Let me stress once again, as has already been said today, that statistics show that the trend of enrolment in all vocational programmes, educational programmes from year to year is increasing and that the interest in vocational education is increasing. This means that the need to put in place a system of apprenticeships is necessary. However, Slovenia does not have a tradition of apprenticeship, so we also have problems with its image. The apprenticeship, which does not have a positive connotation, must be accepted, as the Minister says, by the wider Slovenian public. It is also closely linked to the development of an economy that creates new jobs for apprentices. It therefore makes sense that the introduction of the apprenticeship system is thoroughly prepared and gradual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, especially the minister and her colleagues! Here's what I'm gonna say. I have also said this when the second proposal of this law was being considered to essentially support the apprenticeship system, so that certain matters need to be dealt with thoroughly. Once these matters are settled, then in any case this matter will also be very useful for the Slovenian economy. In any case, I am in favour of a pilot project in which we can see where we are, how we can achieve a specific objective, and in this project we should, in any event, point out in particular those deficient professions that are already lacking. If I compare the case, for example, in 2008, then we have already abolished the apprenticeship system we had in Slovenia. We have some experience on the premises of Slovenia. But not as an independent state, as far as apprenticeship is concerned. In the past, there were apprentices, because in the chair where our vice president sits, a gentleman once sat with a doctorate who went through the apprenticeship system. And I was also personally very proud to have been given such a high office as the President of the National Assembly, who in some way tasted everything in life. It is true, however, that there is actually a need to make a closer link between education and the economy. If we have this connection in particular in the field of secondary education, of course we will also achieve significantly better results. The European Union is taking a broad action around the apprenticeship system, and I am not surprised that the SDS has already tabled a bill three times and I do not resent it because it wants some changes. We have positive experience in Germany, we have positive experience in Austria, I have even received information that the Austrian state is very stimulating the student, third-year apprentice in the field of construction, masonry, carpentry, if he is their citizen. There is more than a thousand Euros of encouragement. I didn't check that data, but it looks like there's a thousand 200 or a thousand 300 here somewhere, and at this point I wouldn't know exactly what to say. This means that they are thinking at this moment, now about the deficit professions they will need in the future. In 2008, I remember that there were no mines, there were no metalsmiths, there were no scrapers, and so on. This was not then because it was an expansion of the economy. If we were to think about what is going to happen to this economy, we could probably have thought some way before those years ago that we needed experts in the deficit professions. Look, our parents used to say, "Learn how to work." And then we had a period when parents said to their children, "Learn that you don't have to work." Now comes the time again, "Learn that you can work." And we must always have this river before our eyes, so in some ways I encourage the Ministry of Education to approach this problem with all activity and seriousness and to actually get to the pilot pilot project in a short time, and then perhaps in due course, in some real time, even to see this apprenticeship system in Slovenia come to life. People who know how to work stand the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Branislav Rajić. Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished Minister with a team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Your discussions, at least some of them were interesting. I recognize that I believe that we have taken every first step towards what is absolutely necessary, which requires economic system, craftsmen, as required by entrepreneurs operating in the global environment of Europe and the world, and not least what trends are forecasting. I just don't know how you guys work, I usually get up at 6:00 in the morning before I get up, look at Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Die Presse, Die Welt and so on. I look at what happens in different policies, how the most developed multinational societies work, how they work globally and what trends are. Since I have been in politics and one of the foundations of my entry into politics has been the goal of Slovenia in the second phase. If Slovenia’s first objective, or the first goal of its own country, were to be the second objective of this economic efficiency, which would be felt by all citizens and citizens. This means that Slovenia can, in my opinion, become one of the most developed countries, which responds extremely quickly, which is highly specialized in certain industries, which manufactures top-notch manufacturing products that have tradition and so on. All of these are trends and Slovenia must be targeted at precisely the words I have just spoken about. The last, the address, in the morning of six, when I usually get up the Nur core of Fünfte braucht Uni-Abschluss. Institut für Bildungsforschung der Wirtschaft speaks of two matters. It speaks on the one hand of the problems that we have ourselves, of frustrated students who finish their diploma and where they find with this diploma the next day that this diploma does not mean only some degree, but it does not mean almost nothing in the labour market that they are one of many, that they are not competitive not only in Slovenia, but also in global markets. That is why I am convinced that the introduction of the dual school system is a necessary project for all of us here together, together with the economy, along with these factors that some of you have talked about. These are the companies, those entrepreneurship groups that have the opportunity to participate in so-called pilot projects. I am talking about entrepreneurs who are at some higher level of development, because there must also be mentors, taking some responsibility for the staff that will emerge from this dual school system and who will be successful in the market. Let me say that most of the institutes in Germany and Austria find that apprentices are more entrepreneurial than academics. Very possibly somewhat transferable records, but why do we most often find this record? In the end, apprenticeship is also extremely linked to entrepreneurship, to people who then also have an idea of their own, some of their knowledge acquired during the dual school system, which is quickly implemented through some of their entrepreneurial ideas on the market. Here, too, we need some extras for various incubators, support for all these entrepreneurial ideas, that as an invention, there is some innovation, that is to say, the ultimate goal, where there is some commercial success. I must admit, I've been expecting a greater variety of discussions. These discussions have been extremely modest from most Members. I find myself as one promoter of this system, as someone who sells stories that impress young people with the dual school system that are urgently needed. You've talked most of the time about some professions that have a label for some of the lower-value professions. You need to know that the dual school system has also expanded considerably in the sectors. Today, apprentices represent in the production of carbon, polymers, aluminum top products, not least alloys for the automotive industry. I am invited to the Porsche Development Department in Budapest next week, where the Porsche Coupe is also part of the accompanying programme, there is a whole range of masters and apprentices who are also learning to produce some products for Porsche GT3 RS. This means, they participate in smaller production, they produce top-end products made of polymers, carbon, titanium, they are also welders, and therefore they receive incomes that are at the level or greater than our Prime Minister. So I have to impress people. Before I say what are those sectors in my opinion where pilot projects could be introduced, let me say that I do not agree at all that Slovenia does not have any tradition in the field of apprenticeship. We had a tradition, respected colleagues. This tradition was violently interrupted after 1945. Go to a church, go home to your grandmother, and if you have a feeling for wood products, open a closet of 150 years old, see the master on the back of the closet. Go look at the church organ! Look at the Slovenian masters who built top-notch products 200 years ago, who had this knowledge. Step to the Slovenian glass industry. I myself was part of the sale for Switzerland and Germany of Steklarna Rogaška, where they produce top-notch products with high added value, with excellent design, knowledge and tradition. Those of you who say that just say this range of modesty. Last but not least, look, if our parents listen to us, a whole bunch of masters in the culinary shop. Or your son, if you were once a top chef with someone who cooks in a restaurant with one or two Michelin stars. For example, the Reitbauer family in Vienna’s Stadtpark, which has one of such restaurants, or our chefs, say from the Tank family, two sons from Maribor who cooked in all of Michelin’s restaurants. Or perhaps a master, the most famous Slovenian violin maker Skalar, who was once my cousin. He was one of those who also evaluated Stradivari's violins. Or we go to the area of mechatronics, respected colleagues. In the area of mechatronics, they also need a whole range of dual school systems, those that are finally producing certain robot circuits. Bionics that develop, then the prosthetics, 3D prosthetics. As a mother or a father, would you be pleased if, for example, your son came home and said that today on his 3D printer or in the field of some special ligors he made part of the skull of someone who was unhappy because they reported that he was missing a piece of the skull from the clinical center? And at the end of today, 3D prosthetics through scanning make part of the skull of a man where they fill his, say, head. And that's what apprentices do on certain machines on 3D prosthetics. The area of 3D printing is now producing a whole range of smaller sets that have an extremely high added value. I was talking about industry, like museum vehicles. Someone in Slovenia, for example, can produce certain circuits for Ferraris concerning polymer plastics for the undercarriage of certain authentic Ferraris, aged 60, 70, and can make this at home. We talked about wood industry, public buildings, interior equipment, top gear. For example, Marble Hotavlje, which builds a whole range of yachts today, equips them internally and so on. This is the breadth of the debate. That's why the school system needs to be changed. And why even children when we were in kindergarten, why someone didn't say, at least I know the words, I don't know the values of your children, what I'm going to be when I'm big, or whether I'm going to be a locksmith, or whether I'm going to be a train driver, or I'm going to make something for the airline industry. In his honesty, the child always says that he wants to make something practical. I've never met a child before to say, but I'd like to be a bureaucrat, I'd like to post papers left and right, and I'd like to have a master's degree or a doctorate. I want to be a graduate political scientist when I'm big. What happens to this primary school system to get these people to start thinking so insincerely! We all want to be lawyers, we all want to carry documents and live in a foreign disaster where two Slovenians argue for a meter of land. What happened to us in these places? Why was this tradition interrupted? And those who spoke learn that you will not have to work, this indicates this winemaking pre-passionate mentality, which was created after World War II in this Slovenian nation. It only points to this poverty, this modesty of thinking. Look, the people who are the richest today, most of the time they don't have completed colleges, and they've become the best in their field. They put together some of their knowledge from the apprenticeship system with a entrepreneurship wire. They may have failed for the first time, but they succeeded in the next attempts. And I see Slovenia in that. I believe the marriage won't go through today. Of course, somehow I support you, opening up to you this horizon, this slide of thinking about how the global economy works. If your goal is to become one of the highly developed countries with high added value, with high manufacturers that you, your sons, your daughters, your grandchildren who will one day be long gone and will not, as will they, when they write the words of perhaps some of your sons on some manufacturing products that will remain centuries behind us. And that's the essence of the dual system. It is a system of values, it is also a system of values in the school system, that the best masters who have succeeded partially transfer knowledge to their students, take responsibility for this and that we have all these sectors somehow expanded. Slovenia has the opportunity, it has had this tradition and Slovenia must return to this tradition in 2015. He must return to his traditions and his nature, my esteemed colleagues! I call on you and I will not end my political path, maybe I will ever give up until we implement this system in Slovenian school space. That's the basis today. This is the pedestal of Slovenian entrepreneurial thinking. This is our future, and we will insist on this in the Slovenian Democratic Party until the last atom of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u58	I must say from the outset, because I have very little time to say that I do not have any reservations in most of Mr Breznik's debate. But there's one part of it. What he has been saying since 1945 is not accurate. The apprenticeship in Slovenia, I can safely say, will not continue to claim it was until the 1980s. It was between 1945 and 1980.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Branislav Rajić, we're being prepared by Mrs. Susana beautiful Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The renewed esdees proposal for a law on vocational and professional education I see as a generous contribution to our shared responsible concern about the high level of unemployment, especially among young people. The countries that maintain youth unemployment at relatively low levels are Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Denmark. I will give reasons why Slovenia is not partial to them from the point of view of the apprenticeship system and why their models cannot be linearly copied. First, in all the countries mentioned above, apprenticeship has a long tradition and a markedly positive connotation compared to Slovenia. In Austria, for example, a large number of enterprises involved in the vocational education system show that such education has a great reputation. Social partners play an important role in the apprenticeship system. Unlike Central Europe, where apprenticeship is an important part of the completion of education and entry into work, there has been no positive call for us since the 1990s. Secondly, when it comes to the role of social partners, it is a key organisation in this area of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. This is, however, the most critical until the reintroduction of apprenticeship. Their view is that apprenticeship must not become a new burden for employers. The craftsmen and entrepreneurs do not agree to enter into a working relationship with the apprentices. They also refuse to pay the apprentices for the work they do during their training. A key participant in the introduction of apprenticeships in our country has a completely reverse logic as in the above mentioned countries. Therefore, the law, which refers to foreign models in the proposal, cannot be applied. Thirdly, in Austria, for example, the Ministry of Economy is responsible for apprenticeship; in Germany, several ministries are responsible for the exercise of apprenticeship. What I would like to stress is that it is not only the education sector that depends on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the apprenticeship system. The apprentices are employed workers who train new skills, so apprenticeship is largely part of the economy and work. However, the proposal of this law does not touch on the competences of the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Labour and is therefore materially weak and at an appropriate level unfulfilled. For some professions such as chimneys, for example, it is only possible to educate in Sweden as part of apprenticeship, so in the Slovenian context we will make a set of specific professions where apprenticeships could truly live. I have not seen such a contribution or at least a reflection in the form of legislative provisions on this subject in the draft law. Our government is dealing with unemployment at multiple levels. The number of unemployed has decreased by almost 13,000 from January to June this year. This means that government measures to raise employment have produced fruit. With the deliberate introduction of apprenticeships, the contribution to reducing unemployment will be even more noticeable, so we do not have to force ourselves into a law that opens up more problems than it can solve. I have raised some open questions on which the proposal for a law to introduce a system of apprenticeships in Slovenia simply does not provide answers. In SMC and all the competent ministries, we see a solution in the deliberate introduction of the apprenticeship system in forms that are well-functioning in practice and fully adapted to our situation. Only copying the apprenticeship system, as they know elsewhere, is not a promising solution for Slovenia. Let's look at this example, in 2011, we had over 600 students involved in the first year of hairdressing school. For only 248 out of 600, 160 employers received incentives for practical training from European funds. The funds were intended to reward mentors and provide conditions for apprentices. Employers mainly did not want European money because it was related to late administrative processes and inspections. At the same time, they had an obligation to pay the student a reward for the work they had done in accordance with the collective agreement. In this case, it is clear where it only leads to the imitation of foreign practices. We need to come up with solutions to apprenticeships suitable for Slovenian space. The government party proposes to introduce apprenticeships gradually for professions for which there is an interest among employers. In preparation, there is a model that will be financially acceptable to employers and sustainable for the state budget, only for professions for which apprenticeship is a logical didactic path. The dynamics of implementation will depend on the interests of employers, in particular on real jobs that could be occupied by apprentices. And most importantly, this will be a concrete response to the actual needs of Slovenian students, Slovenian workers and employers. The rejection of this proposal has no political connotation. The welfare and future of our youth are too precious for anyone in their most painful areas to afford only a dim collection of political points. We respect the proposaler's efforts and invite him to enrich with his views the concept of apprenticeship, which is being prepared at the Ministry of Education. The door is open, and the paths to a common walk to the goal are wide enough. Rejecting an incomplete proposal is only a step on this path, not revoking the idea and not the participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Mr Sasa Tabakovic should be prepared. Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Chimenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister and colleague from the Ministry! The key to the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly in a well-functioning economy. There are, of course, several factors that make the economy work. In today's debate, however, I will respond and limit myself to only one, namely the need to respond to the education system, to the needs of the economy and to the needs of the labour market. I appreciate that our education system is on its way. One path that does not adapt to the economy, but has adapted more and more in the past, I will say, to the preservation of existing jobs. Even when the educational systems themselves had changed. I am aware that this proposal is just one minor step towards a real change, but it is important, and that is why I personally support it. It enables something that's important. Maybe the easier transition from the education system itself, to schooling to work. This contributes significantly to the very employability of young people. What has already been mentioned is that employers often mention that they get a cadre that actually doesn't know much. But can we even read it to them? We cannot because our education system is unfortunately operating on the principle that everything is too theoretical and actually too little practical work, which is extremely important in the education of professions. That youth unemployment is a problem, we are aware of it in Slovenia. However, if we compare ourselves with the European Union, our data are not so critical, we are at about 13%, the EU average is 20%. Of course, we have bright exceptions, the Netherlands with only 8%, but we also have big black foxes, say Spain with 40%. But by being under the average, we can't be satisfied. We need to find a way to make our young people, here I am talking about young people between the ages of 15 and 25 as soon as possible. And this dual system, the apprenticeship system is certainly, as the European Union has also recognised, and therefore it is also giving certain incentives to this system, which is the right thing to do. In some ways, young people are allowed to see the light at the end of the tunnel. I'm personally very disappointed when you ask a high school graduate where he's going to go, what high school he's going to go to, we all hear too often that he's in high school. When we ask why, "I don't know what else I want to do in my life." Many times this is also due to the fact that they simply know that it is very difficult to get a job and because they do not know jobs. This is partly the fault of the education system itself, partly the fault of parents who may not be able to present their profession in a comparable way, but partly of employers themselves, that they are not active enough to present their professions. In this way too, thinking is needed in the future. The problem that has already been faced is also the disappearance of professions. But here we can do a huge amount, even if we make one broader presentation of this. Let me just mention this, given that I am running out of time, that the OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has also highlighted that we have a poor education and that we need to improve its effectiveness in particular in order to take account of the needs of the economy. However, I certainly support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As already presented in the position of the SMC Group, I would also like to point out once again that, in fact, due to the high level of youth unemployment and the lack of alignment of the education system with labour market needs, the introduction of apprenticeship is actually high on the agenda of both SMC and coalition programming principles. Which means that we ourselves see the apprenticeship system as an incentive for those young people who will eventually opt for vocational education as well as a government incentive for the development and prosperity of deficient professions. In its proposal for a law on the subject under consideration, the SDS Group refers mainly to the Labour Relations Act. In fact, if we want to introduce the apprenticeship system in its entirety, that it can actually work smoothly in practice as well, and that it will actually show the expectations it offers as such, there will be a need for broader legal coordination. Therefore, the apprenticeship system should cover at least the Safety and Health at Work Act as well as the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. What does that mean in practice? If I say this very afternoon, the apprentice will have to undergo a medical examination before the relationship begins. There is nowhere in the bill to determine who will cover the costs. The apprentice will also have to train from protection at work. And once again, the proposal does not specify who will cover the costs. After all, there is nowhere to be determined when the apprentice comes into a relationship with the employer, how the employer will create a quality working environment in a way that will buy protective equipment at work, who will pay for the insurance of the machine, if the apprentice corrupts it, who will actually pay or who will cover the cost of harming the apprentice at work. The SDS Group, or some members of the SDS Group, in a very nice way, emphasise the potential and wishes of children who will eventually opt for vocational education. Nowhere, however, do they respond to the above mentioned obligations of the employer in this process and the apprenticeship system. This means that if, on the one hand, the State promotes and co-finances apprenticeship, it is also expected on the employer's side that they will somehow give their consent, in what way they will also help themselves, and that they will finally realize that the apprenticeship system actually represents an added value for their businesses. In view of the current diction of employers, as well as some members of the opposition, I personally have some fear that this system could come about in a way that the apprentice would no longer be an apprentice, but perhaps just an assistant or, worse, a free labour force. So that when we clear up the ethics of the working environment, it is only then that we can really refer to the other European countries, their traditions, which actually know what this tradition really means. As we say, we do not oppose the system of apprenticeship. We think it is good that it is being introduced, that it is also being developed on a proposal from the Ministry. Regrettably, however, the proposal by the parliamentary group regarding the law of this topic does not solve the issue in a comprehensive way in order to be able to support it personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, I personally open such initiatives as the SDS legal initiative, especially in the light of the opening up of important issues to what kind of educational system we want. If I had decided solely on the basis of, for example, Mr Breznik's performance, the law might have supported his excellent stand-still out of enthusiasm. It is true, however, that the legislative process is neither a stand-up nor such a demanding substance in such an easy way cannot be dealt with. Although I agree with many of the very important points that my colleague Beznik has made. What seems important to me in today's debate, which seemed most problematic to me, was not a definition of a proposal for or against, but an attempt to impress itself that there is no practical education in the Slovenian education system, no practical training and that this will only happen with apprenticeship. It seems to me that this moment should be noted that we have excellent vocational education. However, the essential difference between vocational education and apprenticeship is that, in the case of the first school education programme, it is complemented by practical training either in the case of dedicated classrooms or in the economy, and on the other hand, in the case of apprenticeship, we are talking about the whole educational process taking place in the workplace with the employer on the basis of a sectoral agreement which also recognises and duly certifies this competence. Here we are talking about two different things which, in this debate, I fear, are important to meddle, and it would be imperative that all of us who are so important to us discuss this in some way. Since I felt that a large part of the criticism was unduly flying to the professional part of the educational system, I think it is crucial that this is also highlighted. We have inter-enterprise educational centres that we have set up just to link the economy to vocational training. If I refer again to my colleague Breznik, yes, these are the institutions where young people can learn to work with 3D printers. These are the institutions where young people come in contact with the latest laser technologies, and they are taught to use them on industrial production simulators. If anyone has not yet seen these systems, I warmly invite you to Velenje, the district where I was elected. There is a wonderful inter-enterprise incubator where all of the things we are talking about today can be seen, which in practice are already functioning and are excellent. And students coming from those programs are more employable than we are abroad, where they appreciate the excellent work of teachers and the excellent infrastructure conditions offered to these students by the Slovenian educational system. More. One of the main market failures of this part of Slovenian vocational training is the training of foreign teachers, the transfer of this system, not only to the Western Balkans, so that there will be no feeling that this is only happening from developed to less developed. No, no, no. Also in the area of Western Europe. That's why I think the subtony I've detected is a criticism of vocational training, which, as if it doesn't exist with us, is wrong and clearly needs to be rejected. Even when we talked about the wonderful experience of chef masters and the decision for this profession, yes, in Slovenia young people choose this profession because we have excellent vocational training. There is a fantastic learning hotel in Bled, where young guests learn from top cuisine to fantastic wellness care and create new added value in tourism. All of this exists with us. But it is related to the educational system they have in the Republic of Slovenia and the majority of this training takes place within the system. Why? Because it is fundamental – and here we come to the key question in the debate on apprenticeship – because the basic orientation of the Slovenian educational system is not that we teach people by socialist logic for one job, for a machine, for the rest of his life, but to empower students and students with the widest possible set of skills to adapt to economic change. For the economy is not the point where you enter and stay in one job for the rest of your life. Technological development, progress has created the need for the education system to create a young man who is able to adapt. To come into a company that has a system of career plans, career training, advancements. And we're also talking about intergenerational solidarity here, let's not forget that. The absence of this solidarity, which would mean that someone who enters into a working relationship is supported by those who leave the work process, but have experience, skills and knowledge, precisely this lack of understanding of the importance of this intergenerational solidarity creates a large part of the problem for us that, since this career management system is far from being available, we face the problem of the inability of young people entering companies to perform certain functions. But this is the basic job of the employer. If anyone thinks it's the task of apprenticeship to train our students and students to manage one production line, for example, in a system like Gorenje, then he's deeply wrong. Also, apprenticeship, if we take it as such – while I believe that there is nothing wrong with our vocational education as well and it can be a good alternative to larger apprenticeship models – must create a person who is able to understand the work process, adapt, know how to look for alternative sources of knowledge, competence and pass between different sectors and technical or service models of his career development and growth. In this respect, it seems to me that it is extremely important that apprenticeship is not a product of some populist thinking that the Slovenian educational system is just a theoretical school that leaves a person alone, without knowledge and without practical competence. It is an extraordinary interdisciplinary story, which must be led by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, precisely because of its complexity. It is precisely because, in the absence of sectoral arrangements, I stress once again, and the choir education that is typical, for example, of Bavaria and for the systems where apprenticeship is the basic model of education in industry, that students in the vocational education or apprenticeship system will receive, irrespective of the type of education, still the widest possible set of skills, allowing them to be flexible in employment, flexibility in career growth and, last but not least, flexibility in changing professions. If two decades ago it was considered that you would "come and stay in the phos" today in the case of mining, for example, which is one of the most specific professions, we can find that the transition of those who are qualified within the Slovenian professional mining profession to other professions is extremely large and that in fact a smaller part of those who are qualified for the mining profession is actually in the end. It is true, however, that the professional system had to evaluate, adapt and provide a wider set of skills than what, say, a young person would get in the classical, including the apprenticeship system. That is why, in fact, we personally, as well as my great group of Members, believe that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport understands the Slovenian Democratic Party's initiative to simply discuss and postpone the decision on what the basic orientation of the Slovenian educational system is will not produce results. It is necessary to decide, and sometimes also to interrupt, and to say that our educational system follows these and these objectives and is pursuing them through such and such methods. And more than the question of how to deal with this law, I think this is a key issue of this debate. Thank you very much, and I apologize for the time lapse.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Miha Kordiš. Mr. Badass, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye to everyone again! Now I'm going to try to turn a little things the other way, and first of all, I'm going to refresh my colleague Scobernet, who spoke before me. I must say that I fully agree with him, and it would be without any connection to add anything further in this direction. Perhaps I could say that Mr Jurša is not here now, but I have followed him and listened attentively. Everything he said before is true. As for the apprenticeship, that we had it and that it was very good there until 1980 and a little later, and I would also like to talk about the work. I was also in the education system, in education, and many times, maybe for the last 10 years at various presentations, when we somehow went to school, parents often said, "Yes, ours will fit in, my son will join that program, you know, he'll go to school, he won't have to work. That was true. And that now comes the times when, however, if we want to come out of the crisis, we need to work. Then I would answer Mr Breznik – he is not here now and he promised me he would – but I would tell him about the values of the profession. We're also in the Modern Center Party or we have apprentices, so we wouldn't think so. I was an apprentice myself, from 1971 to 1974, and I learned to be a mess, even so, in a private workshop, and believe me, there were different times. Now a lot of changes will have to be made if we want some form, some different, complementary form that they have in Germany, which is, of course, an ideally refined system to bring it back, of course, will take quite some time. Of course, after this career, I graduated from the university later, but if I decided again at this point in time to go on a career, I have to tell you all that I would make the same decision. But I would have decided even more at this time when, in fact, the resurgence of the wood industry is showing again. This means that in the wood industry there are also new jobs and opportunities for young people to work. I would also add that many times in school I have given some examples of good practice, that we also had experts in the past, and I have mentioned Mr Plečnik many times. Many may not know that Mr Plečnik was first a copper apprentice, later completed architecture, he is very much recognised in Slovenia, of course also in the European space. I would say, however, that this professional path or profession is seen in his projects, in many churches in Slovenia they have beautiful ceilings made of domestic Slovenian macesin. So this is another special attention, because if he had not mastered it, which he had learned through his career as a apprentice, surely he would not have been able to include these details in his major projects that he has made or have made in Slovenia, as I said, in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor, and the Minister and the proposer are next. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the 18th, 19th century, a man named Jean Baptiste-Say formed what we now know as Say's marriage. In particular, it is said that the offer creates its own demand. I am mentioning this because this is the fundamental logic in which today's SDS proposal on the introduction of apprenticeship is also based. If we move this to a concrete case, the story goes so that if we have enough competence, enough competences, some of these personnel, on the other hand, will magically create jobs on the other hand, and this is what we are convinced of today. Of course, there is total stupidity and a problem with us in society and the economy is on the side of demand, not on the side of supply. It is on the side of the economy, being true employers, capital, not on the side of job seekers. In the last year of our term of office, I have repeatedly cited a practical example that we have 110 000 job seekers and only a thousand vacancies. We can have these 110 thousand people, I don't know how well trained, these 110 thousand people can be geniuses — but how many of them are going to get jobs? I'm only a thousand because there's only so many jobs available! This tells us that the problem is not really on the job seekers' side, on the supply side, but on the demand side, on the economic side. Economically privileged, managers and capitalists do not work because of the goodness of their heart. They are employed because new employees make their profits or more profits than they used to; they bring new, fresh money to the company — if you want. Such structural exploitation and privileges, which foster private ownership of production assets, will, of course, be eliminated by the socialists. But before we get there, we can at least take, for some basic justice and honesty, the fact that you are appealing to capital by staff who are already qualified for a concrete work process, but this capital is financed by itself, not by all citizens and all citizens, as this proposal foresees. And that the problem is indeed on the side of the economy, we can find out not only by theoretical analysis, but also by practically extremely fast seeing that there is a rabbit in this bush. For example, the Chamber of Commerce has been very cataclysmal all the time claiming that we should not give oxygen to the economy and that it should lower taxes. But look, our taxes aren't a problem. The problem is the inability of these so-called economists to organise an economy that will create high added value to organise a sovereign economy that will create quality jobs. In fact, we are dealing with groups, with a social class that can't do anything but exhaust employees, while at the same time squawking about what gods the poor are. And these are the real sloths in our society. Various Sixes and similar masters. These are real social parasites, not public sector employees. And they can only create profits through hyper-use, tax breaks and subsidies, but they cannot organise some production process with their permeability, entrepreneurship and fervor. They just don't know it, and then they just keep rocking and chanting about how to lower their taxes. A practical example of how we do not stifle the economy, but it is the naked incompetence and swallowing of these economic beneficiaries, is the reduction of the pension contribution rate. This happened there in 1997, when this rate practically halved, even today we have heard a reference to it. Well, the argument at the time was that we should, however, release the economy to let it breathe so that it could invest in development. And what of these terrible promises of investment and development have then come true? Nothing, nothing! This money, which could otherwise maintain the pension register, went for yachts, went for luxury, ran into tax havens. Instead of filling the safe age of generations of older ones who have contributed strongly during their lives to the construction of our society, or eventually to a certain developmental acceleration — no, this money has gone for the luxury of economic privilege. But the consequences are what they are because they are now being dealt with. He left behind a spinning and sinking pension box. Because precisely because of this capital relief today, pension cash registers have these problems; not because they would have "as" too old, not because they would have "as" too high pensions, not because they would have "as" too few highly qualified young people. No, the hole was created in the pension box due to these so-called requirements of the economy, which, in particular, is referred to by the applicant today as the reason why we need to introduce apprenticeship. But here it is necessary to attach capital to the generation. Just once suck the older generation, second time suck the younger one, and that's just this practical case ahead of us, which is an example of a very similar privileged treatment, just on another level. What is really hidden in this proposal is just another form of the subsidised economy. The economy consists of those who actually create something — workers, workers, and those who control this created value and absorb the fruits of the employee’s work — this is a handful of managers and capital owners. The proposal is to subsidise the private profits of the owners and managers of this public common money from the public retail sector. It is so partly misleading when we talk about apprenticeship as something that will encourage and contribute to the economy. No, it will not stimulate the economy, it will not contribute to the economy, but it will contribute to the profits of the privileged economy. The richest part of society to educate its own labour force, from which it earns its wealth, expects public money and this is being applied to today's proposal. We therefore strongly oppose this proposal in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u72	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to thank you for this really constructive debate and for all the insights, reflections, suggestions, and illustrations, which very clearly show that it is really worth discussing apprenticeship. About apprenticeship not only as a form, but also as one of the concepts, it is practical not to say training, but mainly the commitment between the employer and the apprentice, but also as one of the forms within the already existing vocational education in our country. I think that this is what we all want and, of course, we are looking for the most meaningful, the most feasible solution for creating an early youth employee, of course, to allow all the older ones who can prove themselves to be qualified and thus gain a job and their career development, and of course to enable, at the same time, the flow of cooperation between education and the economy to achieve not only new added values, but also refreshing and, of course, also justifying some new aspects of vocational education, while, of course, addressing the problems of structural disparities between certain parts of the economy and education itself. The current response to the needs of the economy needs reflection, takes time, and we can never respond to education tomorrow, immediately. But we need to think about these steps in a systematic, thoughtful and, above all, gradual way. I think that this debate has also contributed to this today. The aim of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is, as already presented, to conclude dialogue in the concept of alliance as soon as possible, to clarify all the dilemmas that have been raised today, to prepare a model on this basis, a common, transparent concept for the implementation of the first cases in a new way of apprenticeship in Slovenia, with the support of European funds, and at the same time to prepare a separate law on apprenticeship that would solve all these, today also exposed dilemmas, and to bring good feasibility to the benefit of creating new values for both young, older, new and particularly employers. I think and I am sure that we will find a common dialogue, that employers too want to open jobs that will benefit not only employers in terms of developing their activities, but also the powers of all those who will enter apprenticeships. If the interest of society as a whole and of course of all of us to co-create in development, this can also be one of the elements in the already existing education system, which will contribute to a more efficient and effective integration of the economy and education. Thank you for everything you've heard and said today. I think that this is just an incentive for us to approach resolution as intensively and constructively as possible, we know that many of the points presented have already been, and we also know that we can say, more than once in dialogue, thoughtful approaches to how to implement one of these forms of dual system at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you one last time, I hope, for your word. That maybe there'll be something new, maybe it's a good incentive that the secretary and I have been with each other the whole time. At the second reading, the minister was in the introduction, and then maybe it was too heard and she left, so I think it's a good prediction for further events. The only thing I hope, when today's talks on these pilot projects have taken place, is that, after not only the officials of the Ministry of Education but also the other officials of the Ministry of the Economy, the ministries of work have started to introduce this pilot project and to amend the law so that they do not run out of jobs and masters, and then we will introduce apprenticeships, we can essentially throw this law aside. I also think that today's magnetogram, like – I hope – the draft law or the proposal of the law will be a good guide to this apprenticeship law to be prepared. Also a constructive debate, almost without ours: yours, coalition : the opposition, I was, I must say, very fond. I would like to have such a constructive debate on some subject, perhaps even within your department, because there are some open questions and I believe that we will also resolve them through debate and decision-making in concrete terms. And allow the vice president, a few more answers to the debate. Mrs. Levicar said: finance. The Minister has already answered something. Of course, employers will have to contribute something. I hope that employers do not think that the apprenticeship system will be introduced and that this country and the European Union will pay for everything. However, something will surely have to be contributed in such or otherwise form, or through rewards, wages, contributions, and so on. Then it was said about the prize, how it was supposed to be. Only Mrs Levičar may be able to do so; Article 31 gives a clear definition of how this award should be implemented in our proposal for a law. I agree with Mrs Kotnik that apprenticeship is not a miraculous medicine for education for young people, but we have prepared apprenticeships, apprenticeships, housing problems for young people we have introduced the law. All is one piece Last time there was a debate on the fiscal rule, no law has a magic wand in it, but we will save it all at once, but it is a step and it also expresses the willingness of the SDS Group, as I said at the meeting the last time, that we will meet again and again, that perhaps with our expertise or some other knowledge, we will also help to make that text of the law that will be passed the most effective in practice. [[...]] Mrs Vervega too – very constructive proposals. She mentioned what might be missing in this law; the first consideration is, I believe that if political will were to be in the course of further consideration, it would be placed in the law, but I believe that all of this from your debate was written by the Ministry's representatives and will also be taken into account in that law. Mr Jurša was constructive at the second reading or in the previous proposal of the law, and I thank him today. Then Mr Rajić discussed that the law was copying. There is no copy of the law, as Mrs Kotnikov has already said. It is my or our contribution that we should take the best of the Finnish, German, Austrian model, make copies of pasta and, of course, try to adapt both to the Slovenian educational process and to our working legislation. I am afraid that if what Mr Rajić said is the role of the ministry in this law, that the minister would obviously have the burden of settling the issue of apprenticeship. Once officials sit down by the Ministry of Education and officials from the Ministry of Labour, from the Ministry of the Economy, there will be many more open questions than they may have in this bill, because everyone will come with their specific knowledge, proposals, but in the end, as I said before, I am afraid there will be so much talk that there will be no agreement. And in our opinion or in my opinion, too much weight to give to the ministry in this law, then we fall out of the main one: the school system, the working relationship. Moreover, if I take up Mr Rajić's debate, I am afraid that there will be no apprenticeship at least in this mandate. Of course, I agree when he said that the proposer should, in his views, make a rich proposal for a new law, which the Government is preparing. I think that we will be so fair to each other here, that the ministry, when it prepares a final version of its law, may also commend the SDS Group for our efforts in these 33 articles and the various sub-sections. Finally, I left Mr Tabakovic, whom I welcome to the National Assembly. Maybe he hasn't been informed yet, the first hearing, the second hearing, the third hearing. But you might miss it. However, as for the fact that there is no employer's obligation in the law, I call on him to read the law, particularly Article 5. Conditions for employer. and Article 5.e. He'll see if we've missed him. However, I do not agree in any way with the fact that we are not obliged by the employer to do anything in this area. [[…]] One of the paragraphs is: The employer shall ensure that the apprentice carries out a preventive health care programme. How to write this in a more consistent way than that — help. But, you know, the theory is written here, and the practice -- we know roughly, at least those who first get a job, what it looks like. And more than that, he finally said he was afraid he wouldn't be an apprentice like some free labor force. I must say that, at least in this last change, we have indeed gone in this direction, that the apprentice would by no means be a free labour force that would sweep, copy, or perhaps carry coffee, but has enormous, not only duties, but also rights, and would draw attention to Article 5j here, which says: the reward to the apprentice. For example, for the duration of the apprenticeship, an apprentice is entitled to other benefits as derived from the law governing the employment relationship. The apprentice's prize is paid by the state at 50%, the employer at 50% and so on. I so truly hope that the young colleague who joined us will read the law next time and then share the flat notes. To conclude, once again, thank you all for the constructive debate, and above all, what I have remembered most at your hearing was the integration of the educational process and the economy. Here, through the apprenticeship law, you have the best basis for doing what you have said at the hearing, including doing it in practice. I would also like to end this, because there is no point in dealing with colleagues from the United Left, because after their implementation, I am surprised that communism and socialism have not survived in more countries and not only in those exotic countries that, fortunately, we can count on the fingers of one hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. You've got your word. The time set for the debate has not yet expired, so I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, please apply by raising your deadlines. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Ivan Škodnik, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I didn't finish what I was going to say in my debate before, and this time is just about to come. Professional knowledge is certainly the foundation of the economy. This is summed up when we learn, and also now that we are transferring this system from Germany, Austria and perhaps some other countries, because the Germans can certainly act on it, because they are leading in Europe and in the world. What could we do in Slovenia now to revive apprenticeship? There's been a lot of talk today, but there's two things I'd like to do here. Firstly, the economy needs to prepare for this. Now we find that those of us who monitor these things are not the right time, that there will be a lot more to be agreed on, including with legislation. Secondly, the fact is that the interest in professions in Slovenia has declined strongly in recent years and is well below 20%. What can we do for young people in this area? For young people in particular, attracting those with better learning skills among these young people. These are very important and crucial, I'm not talking about everything, but it's important. This example of Gostilna’s advertising search for a TV boss was actually very good and could be passed on to other areas. I am thinking of the wood industry, the forestry industry, where I expect that somehow with the expansion of the wood industry that is resuscitating, but the need for these professions will grow. I would have come back when I started with the Germans. The Germans have been working on this for a long time, learning from mistakes and bringing the system itself, we can say, to perfection. What is it that draws in Germany and has no problem with the interest of young people in professions? First of all, it's certainly a good profit. Surely, in our current situation, we cannot afford this in our economy, no matter how many employers advocate it. The other thing I said was good advertising. The Germans pay special attention to this, including from the top, of the government. I will not say that this is not the case with us, but that the system of support for the economy is significantly different and that is why they have come so far as to lead Europe. However, I would like to point out some things that are crucial that the Germans have come so far. That they have such well-designed vocational education, I think it depends largely on a good social partnership between politics, unions and employers, and on the strong role of the Chambers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u78	Mr. Vice President, thank you. I'll try to answer or try to find some solutions that I can see about my own concerns. The first thought – who will take responsibility. I return the question: Who will take responsibility for the 20,000 young unemployed with university education? Whoever took the responsibility to have knowledge, I will not say everything, but most of the professions from where they came from, no one needs them in Slovenia or across Europe. Who will take responsibility? On the other hand, we ask professions or businesses, craftsmen who could be carriers of these projects, pilot projects that have succeeded in the market. Who proved themselves. Which the market admits to. And we doubt that. I'm not saying, Minister, it's not a criticism of you, it's a criticism of some Members. Who will take responsibility? It should be borne in mind that the dual school system abroad also brings about the fact that it is precisely those people who are lost today, who are frustrated, who are sometimes guilty themselves, that they are not guilty on their own, that they can, in addition to completing formal education at the second Bologna level, the first Bologna level in order to go back to the dual school system and end some narrowly specialized profession. And then with the wider spectrum of knowledge that they have acquired in our system, they can succeed in life. Perhaps they will then give their company a little micro-enterprise to some reality and give an additional range of knowledge so that they can succeed in other markets. Nothing is ever lost, but the problem is whether we're static or dynamic. Why did we once again propose this exact amendment to the law? For what? Because I am myself, apart from engineers, an economist, and I believe that the cost of opportunity in the school system would be very low among these 20,000 unemployed – and that if at this point our marriage has any other disadvantage, we immediately introduce it, and we are partially correcting it. It'll be a smaller problem than doing nothing. And it's gonna be a smaller opportunite cost. Believe me, for a year colleagues and colleagues have worked, I have somehow overseen the operation of this, collected experience, sought a sign of how this value of this dual school system should be presented to Slovenians and Slovenes; to those who are in the process of education, who are the providers of teaching processes, to those who enter these educational processes, on the other hand, parents. This is the value of respectable colleagues and colleagues! This is the value of some master of some profession being equal to someone who has university education. Pika. Or better yet. So someone who has made it on a global level is more important in some society than one that has failed anywhere. Education means to me personally by proving that I'm capable of a project of 3, 4 years to complete. And someone to give me knowledge. This is a formal education for me. And all the rest are some of my personal skills, whether I can make it on the market or not. Of course, they are professions that are important for a country that cannot be valued by the market. I understand that, too. We don't underestimate, we can say, any branches of science in this country. It's all necessary. But in these broken relationships we are totally like a small nation with no natural resources, which is precisely why we must learn from our ancestors to survive in this space between Vienna and Trieste, that this was once a highly developed part of some Habsburg Austria or before some of the Venets that this is necessary. That it is a nation that can be confident, which has survived in this area, which has developed its own language, which has had all kinds of masters, a whole range of people who have succeeded in this territory in an international sense. That's it. For some it is funny, this is where history shows ignorance, the destruction of this historical memory after World War II in Slovenia. That's what's gonna make us live, if there's ever more politicians like this, and we're gonna end up at the end of this tail. We will only implement the main policies, not to support you in entrepreneurship, the economy, but to correct and only to talk about poor social pressures here. It is not how to make money on the market that we are part of a global economy, that we can succeed in having capable people. No! No! We are investing all our energy in those consequences of the failure of these policies. And Madam Secretary, it's up to you. The fate is in your hands: whether Slovenia will be one of the successful Western European or Central European countries in 10 years' time, which will succeed, which will be known for its excellent manufacturing products, according to masters of a profession, and will then become a value in the next 10 years. That's why I'm putting you here as a partner. [[sign for the end of the debate]] , we offer you a literal hand to do this in the shortest possible time, because the alternative is more expensive than if the law also has any shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you, President, for your word. I would rather deal with the issue of education and the economy as a previous debater than with a Venice theory. Earlier in my first debate, I did not define some positive proposals for a socialist education policy, but I would like to do so now. One, at the most general level, could say that the source of socialist policies is that education must become public, must become accessible to all and must become free. Its task is not to service the capitalist economy and the class household of our cooperative bourgeoisie, but to justify its right to exist by producing "explored, critical, confident and responsible citizens". Emancipation is an essential element of education. This, of course, comes into a fundamental conflict, in fundamental failures with the neoliberal notion that education must adapt to the labour market and subject itself to the economy. This latter, namely, education as a support pillar of the economy, requires schoolchildren and students to be equipped with certain competences or to be trained for a particular production process of an individual company, rather than equipping them with some width, some theoretical and in-depth knowledge, as also required by the illuminating idea of education. However, this is not contrary to any idea of practice or to the fact that the practice must be included in the public education system by a certain point. This practice must certainly have a place in this education, but when we talk about practice here; see, we are talking about broad competence for a whole set of practical tasks, and we are not talking about public education, that public education must serve the training of the future workforce for the needs of the individual employer. I have to separate those two. Even if the educational programme is more practical, this does not mean that it has to be removed and adapted to certain flossules produced by certain representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and its similar organisations on the wrong side of history. What I want to say is that the practical dimension of education is not the same as the serial production of specialized and compliant labour after some industrial samples. A lot has been said today about young people, of course, of course, because we have a proposal on the ground that touches education. I agree that the employment of young people is one of the key issues of today's time, but here the emphasis has to be placed on the issue of employment or job creation at all. Today, the vast majority of newly opened jobs are extremely festive. Slovenia is first in its youth festive employment. Thus, the current solutions, the current policies at work, are no longer working or operating in a way that makes this situation worse. However, we have a very large number of young people who are highly educated and qualified but who do not find, who do not get a job. What we need to do is to reverse this logic without dequalified these young people and preventing them from education and development and from pursuing and developing some of their potentials, it is necessary to focus on systematic development and the opening up of such jobs in the economy so that young and finally all other workers can find quality jobs according to their needs and for some decent pay. What we have to do, in short, is regulate the economy, subordinate it to the social needs of people, introduce some coordination of this economy, democratic coordination, participation of workers, co-decision, self-government and so on, and, of course, the climate in the country will change as regards jobs. We will reach a point of development breakthrough, through our coordinated and coordinated production chains, we will be able to compete globally and globally catch some surplus values, which, of course, translates into development, into new jobs, into better jobs. In short, the problem of unemployment is not related to education but is linked to the economy. We fix, we fix the economy, and we save unemployment, not that we destroy education with this reason and excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 20th item of the agenda. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law amending the law on student food subsidies. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr State Secretary with co-worker, honourable fellow Member and fellow Members. We have before us a renewed proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party concerning the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. As you know, we already put it into the legislative process once this year, and since we were of the opinion, because we also listened to some of your proposals at the time, some of the obvious things were that it was working in the middle of the year, we thought it was worth a try again before 1. in October, when the year of study begins. This law was about subsidising student diet, we have known it for 13 years, in the meantime it has been amended several times, a radical change or a larger intervention has taken place in the framework of the Public Finance Balance Act, when we settled two things, namely student vouchers, that is to say subsidised student diet, was no longer possible 24 hours a day, but only from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., and another important change, the vouchers were no longer a year, but from 15 August to 15 July. This is said, during vacations, at a time when students have no obligation in colleges, subsidised student diets could not be used. What is most important is that the students did not object to this proposal at the time, because then Minister Vizjak, then the other Janšev government, sat down with them and agreed to this proposal, so it was not a one-way intervention in the rights of students and students. However, since the study process has also changed in these three years, which means that certain student obligations are extended until 8 p.m. or longer and that some students do not have time for a daily meal, the state provides them with one meal a day during the study period, and we have decided to extend this hour for two hours; this is from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. now, after the new one would be 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. At that time, with the ZUJF we intended to achieve two things in particular; the first was to save some money, of course, at the time, because of the difficult economic situation, it was necessary to save money in all social areas, and also young people were not exempt from it, but we saw that we would do it in such a way that they could least be affected. When they looked at the statistics at the time, they found that during the night on the vouchers, or benefits mainly of the so-called fast food, this is called fast food, burke, pizza, hot dogs and so on. In short, it is a healthy diet, which, hand to heart – I was myself until a recent student – we eat at a time when we either go to a party or in the morning when we come from a party. In short, it is an unhealthy diet and at the expense of it we have achieved this; it is said that we have saved something and that students no longer eat this unhealthy diet – at the expense of, of course, state subsidies. But if we were to extend this matter for just two hours, we would, on the one hand, allow students, those who don't have time, let's say that lectures, that on Mondays, or Tuesdays start somewhere at four, that it's two hours of classes and then two more hours of exercise, students have responsibilities in college, that's four hours if it comes to then, at four in Ljubljana, then there's no time to eat, and if we extend this matter to ten. Hours, the financial implications would not be, because we have to assume in the budget that if each one has so many vouchers per month, we have to plan so many funds, assuming that everyone will take advantage of them, and therefore the financial situation would not change. Nor would we have changed in this respect, as we wished that there would not have been so much unhealthy food – by the way, we also had a quality debate yesterday in this National Assembly on this very subject when the proposal for a resolution on nutrition, a national programme – would have followed these. At 10:00 p.m., we wouldn't have had that kind of food, which is to say, those who have an eight-and-a-half-nine obligation in college could be able to make new use of the vouchers. I propose that the matter be supported, and I have also spoken with some coalition Members who said that they might have imagined that this chapter would either be postponed in the morning to be from 10 a.m. to 10 a.m. Now, if you think in the coalition that you have a better proposal, in the first proposal this matter can be supported and then you can be amended if you want another hour. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we propose to extend the possibility of subsidising student diet, for the first time, by two hours, and for the second time to adopt this law. We will support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u84	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Initially, we have heard in explanation of the proposal for amendments to the law that the purpose of amending the law is to extend the offer of student food subsidies so that subsidised meals can be offered up to 2 p.m. instead of 20 p.m. The proposed amendment would achieve, following the applicant's explanation, that, according to the students, this diet, the subsidised diet, could also be useful by 10 p.m. despite the extension of the pedagogical process. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal of the law. The government estimates that the current arrangements for the supply of subsidised student diet are adequately regulated and, above all, consistent with the objective. What's the point? The aim is to provide a student with a subsidised meal during the study process. During the study process. As has already been pointed out, the current supply of subsidised student diet is stipulated in the law and provides that subsidised meals can be offered from 8 a.m. to 20 p.m., meaning 12 hours a day. We agree with the proposaler that the educational process in our colleges has been extended and that there is an ever-increasing presence of students in lectures and exercises, but we warn that offering meals is possible 12 hours a day, and the study process never lasts continuously from 8 a.m. to 20 p.m. in the evening. This means that a student can be expected to always find time for lunch despite his study obligations. Let us not forget that when the Ministry publishes a public invitation to tender for the selection of subsidised student food providers, it is ensured that providers from all places in Slovenia, where the study courts are located, from all places where there are higher vocational schools and higher education institutions. School cafeterias as well as providers are also always registered, of course, which are located in the immediate vicinity of higher vocational schools or higher education institutions. Thus it is always ensured that even from the point of view, I will say, the distances students can get to lunch in quite a short time between lectures. Let us not forget the provisions of the Higher Education Act. The undergraduate study programmes comprise at least twenty and a maximum of thirty hours of lectures, seminars and weekly and thirty weeks of training each year. The obligation and the overall burden of the student under the Higher Education Act must not exceed forty hours per week. Finally, the aspect of healthy nutrition also needs to be stressed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia strives for healthy nutrition, for healthy diet and for student food subsidies, is particularly seen in the preparation of public invitations to choose student nutrition providers; in each invitation to tender, a step towards healthier diet is taken, and part of this is when certain meals are eaten. Eating lunch after 20 hours on a regular basis — and even in the introduction we heard what food is mostly after 20 hours — is contrary to the guidelines for healthy eating. If students were given the opportunity to benefit from a subsidised student diet after 20 hours, they would probably be able to use this option. In such cases, it would be preferable to have an evening meal instead of a daily meal. At the same time, the proposal for a law requires an additional financial assessment, according to our assessment. The bill's proposer argues that the amendment of the law will have no effect on public funds and that we do not agree. This is not just a matter of public funding, but it is mainly about the use of subsidies in line with the objective. The aim is, again, to ensure a warm, subsidised meal during the study process. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the current scheme for subsidising student nutrition in terms of the time-consuming use of services is consistent with the purpose, is properly regulated, makes it possible to use the diet 12 hours a day, with a time limit. At the same time with a time limit of 20 hours, it also ensures that meals are consumed during the day, during the study process, but not during the evening hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u85	Mr. Pogacar, thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If the previous draft law and the debate of the Slovenian Democratic Party were considered to be a constructive proposal worth discussing and taking into consideration, we are talking, for the third time, about the classic campaign, the pyro action or similar categorisation of the proposal. This is also reflected in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is identical to the previous opinion, which refers to the previous proposal, which today deals again with the same subject that this assembly has already referred to, despite the fact that the Government, led by the Slovenian Democratic Party, has already initiated the existing solution. That is why, of course, we cannot support such a solution, not because of the question of the financial consequences that are not as essential in this law as it is to look at an integrated examination of the study process. The study process is also educational, at least from a country's point of view, and the state must ensure that everyone is given equal opportunities in the study process. The subsidy for one hot (main) meal is exactly this – the state provides all students and students with a subsidised main meal in twelve hours. When you look at the brochures of the Ministry of Health, distributed free of charge by hospitals, health care homes, at the preventive actions financed by the Republic of Slovenia, it is clearly defined that a healthy diet and a smart approach to nutrition is essential for long-term public health. It is therefore important that the proposals of this assembly do not follow populist action, but here and there also take into their hands such brochures, which say that at least five meals should be held during the day, and the main meal is not the last meal. Assuming that time is extended from 20 to 22 hours to ensure that all students and students have the opportunity to make the main meal, this is in direct contravention of the Republic of Slovenia’s other objectives of ensuring the sustainable and sustainable development of their population and health, which is also a direct consequence for the treasury of this country. If you want me to very plastically illustrate what happens if someone does not follow the guidelines of healthy diet, you can do this this time because we are at such a point, take a personal look at me. This directly reduces the ability of mobile activities, consequently increases the risk of injury and directly increases the costs of the Slovenian health system in my case. Therefore, I kindly ask, even on behalf of the Social Democrats, that such pyro-type actions also be sustained in the Slovenian Democratic Party, although you are sometimes inclined to do so, in the future you will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u87	Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. There is another of the three SDS proposals ahead of us. This time it is a proposal to extend the possibility of using student diet from eight to ten o'clock in the evening. But right from the start, we need to find that it is the SDS that prepared the infamous attack on workers, students and pensioners, which we know as the Public Finance Balance Act or the ZUJF. The then government of John Janša boasted that it had saved 460 million euros. That, in fact, it has caused more than €70 million of damage to the economy, that budget revenues have been properly reduced and that the second recession has deepened, of course, it is preferable to remain silent about this. It thus saved the minus, which beats and follows us today, while at the same time a great blow has experienced the quality of the public good, thus making it possible for all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. These measures are supposed to be aimed at saving. But in fact, the austerity measures adopted by the government of Alenka Bratušek are only a cover for redistribution of social wealth and power from working classes, according to 99% of the population, in favour of the richest and capital of that privileged 1% of the population. Three years after the disaster, called the ZUJF, when the consequences of the deepening of poverty and the destruction of the public sector are increasing, the government of Mir Cerar is also signing under these anti-social policies with great enthusiasm. According to the National Reform Programme, Slovenia is expected to make the biggest fiscal effort in 2016, according to its domestic say, it is most likely to reduce budgetary spending. So, the new tightening of the belt is what the government is telling us. But we have to be honest here and do no wrong to anyone. The entire political establishment is consistently voting for saving. In the story of belt tightening, there is also a restriction on student diet. The then government of Janez Janša remained blind and deaf to all the arguments, and here too did harm and injustice when the student diet was limited to 8 p.m. in the evening. Now, whether this is a two-hour extension proposal for demagogy, a demagogogist move, or an ash spill, I leave it to everyone to decide. In the United Left, however, we will support this proposal independently, because it is a measure that would otherwise modestly improve the position of many students and students. We will also support it for some other principled broader reasons, because the very logic of the austerity measures is damaging and the vote to abolish this specific measure is also a vote to eliminate the harmful logic of belt tightening. Today's proposal also raises the issue of student issues in a broader context. It is clear that we need system changes here, not just like candy, but especially candy from those who have cut the most deeply into our public higher education system. The quality of education is directly linked to the quality of life and this applies to society as a whole, not only to selected individuals, so the area of students needs to be regulated in higher education. We need full funding for public, affordable and free higher education at all levels of study, the abolition of the privileges of academic Mandarins or privileged elites and the end of the exploitation of young academic penitentiaries. In other words, we need the democratisation of the university. In the United Left, we stand firm for education that contributes to public interest, reduces social inequality, and meritocratically allows an individual to make his or her life's happiness independent of wealth. On student social security, however, two must be done. Firstly, to ensure a sufficient number of high enough scholarships for everyone who needs them, and secondly, in the light of this first condition, to stop taking advantage of the boarding school work and the student services supplied from this campus. Under these conditions, students are no longer required to work for bare survival; however, the first task of the student is to study. In the United Left, we will support the bill. However, our vote will be a vote to eliminate austerity measures and eliminate society of inequality. We know, a few days ago, a troika or a euro group of financial terrorists forced the Greek government to sign an agreement to make Greece an EU protectorate. With us, the government of Mira Cerar is doing this voluntarily – six semper tyrannnis.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u90	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Proposals for a new Law on Student Food Subsidisation propose that the term for the use of the subsidised diet should be extended from 20:00 to 22:00. According to some universities and their members, there are quite a few study programmes that carry out lectures and exercises up to eight hours and longer. After the current law, this means that some students are prevented from using subsidised student diet. The Christian Democrats will once again support this proposal, and we are once again asking why the law should regulate the term when student vouchers can be used. Students and students have grown up as individuals, and we believe that they will make the best assessment of when they need a warm meal during the day. Because each person is at a different pace in his life. While this is a difficult path, it requires much more input from the family and the country for education, education and information on healthy nutrition. Older ones, on the other hand, may have positive consequences both for quality of life and for the health system. Christian Democrats support solutions that ensure that only those that allow healthy integrated meals are included in the student diet system and that fast unhealthy food providers are excluded from this offer. As we can learn from the document on healthy nutrition for students commissioned by the Ministry of Health in 2008 for the purposes of regulating subsidised student diet, on the basis of quantitative and qualitative studies on the eating habits and lifestyle of people in Slovenia, we can conclude that the state of nutrition of young people and adults in Slovenia is worrying. Available research on diet shows that the diet of the Slovenian population is unhealthy. The average population of Slovenia does not eat the recommended number of daily meals, rhythm or diet is inadequate, the energy value of meals consumed is too high, it eats too much total and unsaturated fat, and there is too little fruit and vegetables on the menu. Christian Democrats believe that the responsible ones will ensure that a high standard of student nutrition is maintained and we will, as we say, vote in favour of the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today in the National Assembly, for the second time in this mandate, we are only three months away from discussing the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, by which Members and Members of the SDS party propose that the offer of subsidised student diet be extended so that the subsidised meals can be offered by 2 p.m. instead of 2 p.m. Since the bill of spades is the same as the proposal that the National Assembly has considered and rejected in April this year, I am left with nothing else but to repeat the reduced position that we have put in the alliance at the 7th ordinary meeting, but at the same time I call on the applicants to exercise by introducing the law, after the law is most likely to be rejected in this meeting, they do not repeat it in third place, since they will not achieve anything by recycling the same proposals at all times, but simply waste time and tax money. Notwithstanding my critical appeal to the proponents, this does not mean that we disagree with the proposed solutions in the Alliance. We would just like to point out that it is not logical to make entirely the same proposals for solutions that clearly do not enjoy the support of the majority in this national assembly. As you know, there was a restriction that subsidised meals can be offered from 8 to 20 hours introduced in 2012 by the Public Finance Balance Act. Members and members of the Alliance then warned of the nonsense of such a ban, but the government, as a proponent in the chaotic process of addressing the bill and deciding on a few hundred supplements, could not give us an understandable explanation. However, we have seen it in the opinion of the current government. Let me quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is looking for a healthy diet and a healthy diet. Eating lunch after 20 hours is contrary to healthy eating. If students were given the opportunity to benefit from a subsidised student diet after 20 hours, they would probably be able to take advantage of some of this possibility and there would also be cases where students would prefer to take an evening meal instead of a daily meal or on certain days to benefit from both a daily meal and an evening meal." End of quote. While we welcome the concern for a healthy diet in the Alliance, we note that there are different opinions in the professional public, some recommend not to eat after 18 hours, others not after 20 hours, and others argue that the last meal should be taken two to three hours before bedtime. This means that those hours are not relevant at all. Otherwise, the profession also has different opinions on the diet composition of evening meals and could list them. As a party with liberal values, however, we would like to point out in particular that this provision constitutes an example of so-called legal paternalism when the authorities restrict by prohibitions of freedom on the basis of the assumption that people should be protected from harmful behaviour. It's a patronizing and protective attitude towards adults who aren't supposed to know what's best for them. We would like to point out that these are no longer compulsory children with no job skills, nor are they a growing youth in adolescence, but are already emancipated young adults. That is why this patronizing relationship is unacceptable to us. We recommend that the government try to change its behaviour with warnings rather than with legal prohibitions. We'll back up the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u93	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. In 2002, through the adoption of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, we laid the groundwork for the exercise of student rights to use student food, which is intended to be financially beneficial and to follow the principles of healthy and balanced nutrition. From 2002 to today, there have been some changes to the law. Among other things, the use of food has been limited in 2012 and the implementation of student nutrition subsidies between 15 July and 15 August has been discontinued. There was no change in the time limits for use prior to this change. And for the second time this year, we have before us a new law that provides for the extension of the use of subsidised student vouchers from 20 p.m. to 22 p.m. The amendment is justified by the need for students to have a warm meal during the evenings, as they must attend after 20 hours in order to extend the study process, exercise and lectures. Let us recall once again that the applicants were those who limited the use of student diet in 2012; then with the aim of providing sustainable public finances or reducing budgetary expenditure. Today, too, it is those who estimate that the bill will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. The current law on subsidisation of student diet provides that the beneficiaries of the subsidised diet are all persons with student status. Their right to use food is not limited to their material status. In previous discussions, we have repeatedly heard the argument that the government should not restrict students when they can or should not eat. We agree with this, but it should be stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not promote eating during the evenings, which is perfectly legitimate and in our opinion the right decision. Once again, we stress that the daily study process does not last continuously for 12 hours, which means that the right to a subsidised diet can be guaranteed uninterrupted at the current time interval. Let us also recall that the measure of the time limit on the use of student diet has, inter alia, led to the fact that a large proportion of subsidies were used at night when most restaurants are not operating. Students thus benefited mainly from fast food, which is not the main purpose of subsidisation, which is likely to be agreed upon by all. The business guide in the implementation of student food subsidies is the offer of a warm and healthy daily meal. In the evening, student nutrition providers offer regular menus and not daily lunches, which often fail to meet the rules of healthy eating. The Resolution on the National Food and Physical Activity Programme 2015-2025, which we also adopt in the National Assembly, also draws attention to such nutritional problems. Finally, let us reiterate that Slovenia has an excellent student diet system compared to other European countries. In the SMC Group, we believe that the proposal for a law does not bring greater quality in the use of subsidised food this time, so we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u95	The text is given by the SDS Group of Members, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. If I may continue, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have reintroduced the Law on Student Food Subsidisation into the parliamentary procedure. The basic purpose and objectives of the law are, of course, those which determine the right of the student to subsidised student diet and the way and criteria for subsidisation. This time, too, we present the main objective and the amendment of the law, which speaks of students and students being able to benefit from a subsidised student diet from 8 p.m. to 22 p.m. and not from 8 p.m. to 20 p.m., as it is today. Let me begin by saying that we respect social dialogue and agreement with the social partners in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We do what we say. We have also jointly coordinated the Public Finance Balance Act, which was adopted after long negotiations, but in agreement with the social partners. It's better than having a 60-euro ATM limit you every day than it is in Greece. As part of the agreement with the social partners, we have also changed the possibility of using subsidised student diet in the framework of the agreement and, at the proposal of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Once again, it was a concerted agreement and the proposal was submitted by the students. After several years of application of the current legislation, the proposal of the Student Organisation of Slovenia is that due to the extension of study obligations and lectures – unfortunately the Bologna reform has failed and does not produce the desired effects; instead, instead of shortening, prolonging, compulsory attendance, exercise and all other obligations, of course, ensuring that students are in classrooms until evening, they have certainly led to the fact that many students cannot take advantage of the possibility of using subsidised student food. The student organisation of Slovenia supports proposals leading to the improvement of student status, as well as the proposal to extend the interval when students can benefit from subsidised student diet. Last year, when preparing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, the student organisation of Slovenia also submitted a substantively supported proposal to extend the time-limit for the use of subsidised student diet. There was still a period of the previous call of the National Assembly, shortly before the State elections, and there was no strong opposition on the Committee at that time. The student organisation of Slovenia, therefore, gave substantive reasons last year when preparing amendments to the law governing the areas of subsidised student diet to extend the time-limit for the use of subsidised student diet, including the calculation of potential additional financial burdens for the budget. At this point, both in the SDS Group and in civil society, they cannot agree and we cannot agree with the assessment made by Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak that the extension of the time interval by 22:00 would amount to EUR 1.2 million of additional costs for the state budget. This assessment is based on the condition before the time interval is reduced. It should also be borne in mind that part of the students of subsidised student diet has already been transferred to the 20th hour interval currently in force. Therefore, the number of consumers would not increase by the total number before the limit. In addition, in the Student Organisation of Slovenia, there is also a general decline in the use of subsidised student diet, attributed mainly to changes in the subsidised student diet system, such as the reduction in the number of fast food providers as well as, of course, the numerical decline of the student population. The proposal of the Student Organisation of Slovenia has not been adopted in the past, yet the day has not been markedly opposed to the content of the bill itself. This is also evident from the scans, we can print them, and we will show who said something at the time and who is speaking today. We propose, of course, that, on the basis of arguments and initiatives by youth organisations, we listen and realize these desires of young people, in this case students and students. Allow me to touch briefly on the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that it is quite amazing that the Minister of Labour, Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, opposes every single proposal prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here I can list from three proposals to eliminate volunteer traineeships – the government, on the other hand, and the minister responsible for this, ignores the conclusions of the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, when we should prepare a legal solution to the volunteer traineeship last month, and they say that even the analysis is not done. On that basis, we cannot trust the government and the minister who says that everything is under control because it is not. There's one thing that's hitting in front of the cameras, and the other is what we know is real. It is also obvious that the Government does not support these changes, which go in the direction of prolonging the use of student diet. On the other hand, Minister Anja Kopač Mrak is preparing poor measures such as the Youth Guarantee. I must say that I was also to some extent positively surprised when I heard about this programme, that the actual situation would improve in the area of youth employment – but, look what has happened. Last year, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs spent or spent €74 million on reducing youth unemployment by 1%. So, even the opinions of the Slovenian Youth Council go in this direction that the policies that are being prepared at the Ministry of Labour and signed by Minister Kopač Mrakova are ineffective and only for a short time can one or two trees be put out and the whole forest is on fire. The measures taken to improve the situation of young people are unfortunately not adopted by the National Assembly in this mandate, and we also have adopted the National Youth Programme, which was almost unanimously adopted during the government of Alenka Bratušek, even in the SDS Group we supported in good faith that we must step together in the field of youth issues, because the problem of young people is not right and not left, but is a problem of the future of our country. Fortunately, we have at least an opposition in the National Assembly that does something and alerts us to it. It thus proposes solutions in the area of volunteer training, education, which we have already had before, and we have also introduced the Law on the Resolution of the Housing Problem of Young People. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law. In view of the previous positions that have already been made before me, I note that there are a large number of Members and Members and Members of the groups supporting the bill, and I have somehow calculated that this number is currently around 36. So I will appeal and ask the Democratic Party of the Retired to do something for your grandchildren and grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u97	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! Today, after the failure of April's treatment and the negative outcome of the vote again before us is the proposal for a law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. The proposer still persistently offers the student population a sweet candy package, but these packets are empty. In the Desus Group, we believe that such a move in the style of the proposer is also seen by the student population. Even a child you take from him and hide a toy and then offer it back to him will no longer be innocently trusted. In short, our position is the same as the previous one. We cannot support this proposal, but the arguments against it are the same as in the previous rejection. Let me repeat that for a second. The political play of voters and voters, which has been even more common recently than in the legislative process, is, to say the least, unacceptable. By restricting your own use of student vouchers for savings reasons, now you are correcting the ZUJF in this way – and not only with this proposal – we also have a bill for amendments to the War Veterans Act in the parliamentary benches. What do you admit to that? Your mistakes? Really. Further, the financial implications, although they are only supposed to be EUR 1.2 million, and you even claim that they are not, are not yet acceptable to our budget. There are still a number of rights to release the restriction, which have either been with the Public Finance Balance Act or with the Budget Enforcement Act temporarily and some have been permanently blocked. The arguments that students may not be able to eat a warm meal during the 12 hours available to them during the day due to their study obligations. Lectures in our higher education system do not go anywhere continuously for 12 hours. And another fact that speaks against the proposed regulation is: rightly, healthy eating should mean eating the last meal of the day around 6 p.m. Therefore, this is another reason why we do not prolong the subsidisation of food from public resources to the late hour as proposed. Indeed, the country is also obliged to take care of the health of its citizens. Let me ask you, Mr President, in view of the practice so far, whether we can expect the submission of an identical bill in September. The position of the Desus Group on this proposal remains negative, so Members and Members of Desus will reject further consideration of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u99	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Don't worry, Mrs. Jenko, we're going to propose similar changes, you can do the same if you want. You know what they say, you try it once, you try twice, and in third, you like it. Probably no one thought that the amendment of the United Left would be adopted, that those who instigated the company could not establish it for three years, but that the vote was 44 to 41, even on account – thanks to some members of Desus – then we appealed to them to show older people some respect as well. I know my old mother says many times – she worked at the company Alpina Jiri – we built this company on our hands, look what they've done with it now. And even with this amendment, we are punishing you in some way, and some of your Members – I think there are 4, 5, 6 of them. I hope that even when we vote on this law, we will find that there is only one thing you can do if you cannot – because you are always a coalition party, you just promise – for the pensioners, but at least for the young, do something for your grandchildren. When Desus talked about empty candy, I really didn't know what he was talking about, whether it was our proposal or Karl Erjavac's proposal there before the 2008 elections that all pensioners would have thousands of euros in pension. Just as the last meal, which is still supposed to be healthy, is out there around 6 p.m., the parliamentary table is open until 7 p.m., and many times there I see 5 to 7 members of Desus going to dinner. They're obviously saying something like that, and they're doing something else. If I go to the position of the SMC Group, SDS, I will skip because I agree with my colleague I hear everything, I would just say: yes, then we put in the ZUJF, it was this time limit. It is said that it is no longer 24 hours a day and that it is no longer a year, but that between July 15th and August 15th, the matter will end and it will also be limited from 8 a.m. to 20 p.m.; but we have reached it in agreement with the students. We sat with them at the table at the time, and we came to a result that was supported by both us and our coalition partners at the time and students did not oppose him. As far as Mrs Slug has said, I agree that the study process does not last continuously, but we need to know that the purpose of the subsidised student diet is to provide one warm meal a day, and nowhere does it say whether it is breakfast, whether it is breakfast, afternoon meal, or lunch, or whether it is dinner. A warm meal can be my dinner, and it's not true that it's at 10:00. At night already fast food, we know that the inn is mostly open by 21, 22 p.m., even regular menus do not differ significantly from daily menus. However, it is necessary to tell the truth that those inn, restaurants with student vouchers, always give me student diets that are the same from 8 a.m. to 20. Tonight. It is said that they do not separate, such as lunches, lunches and daily regular offers, but it is practically the same all day because they have a student menu. Finally, it is important to point out that even during the day young people eat hamburgers, pizzas on student vouchers, not only in the evenings, but also in the day can fast food, because it has been emphasized that in the evenings of fast food, it is more in the night hours. [[…]] And that's after 10:00 p.m., after midnight, before morning hours and so on. As far as the Alliance is concerned, I'm glad they'll back this up. Madam was surprised that we have already proposed this law three times, and it is interesting that, as president of the Education Committee, it is not surprising that the coalition has already proposed the Minister of Education three times. Well, that doesn't seem to bother you, but I hope it doesn't take a fourth time. Social Democrats have been reading our cheap pear, and I don't know what kind of pierre they had in mind, our student diet, or our debt write-offs to the poorest. And I don't mind, and we will also support such a matter – I see that Mrs Bachič is smokin' me, so she doesn't have to be afraid of it, but it's a pyar too, because you're doing your own pyar. But here it is not a matter of piar, we admit, we then took it together – then Desus, New Slovenia, two parties are still sitting with us – and now we are proposing that this matter, not to the fullest extent as we then took it away, that is to say that we would give the whole year again 24 hours a day, no, we are so critical of what was before, we have said, for the first time because of public finances, and for the second time due to healthy nutrition. As far as the United Left is concerned – I see that none of them are sitting here. I hope that there is no reason to be tired of what kind of luscious action this night – we know what happened to the German embassy. However, when a colleague said that when we saved 460 million euros with the ZUJF, we caused 700 million euros of damage. If this claim were true, then, when we owed ourselves, when we left the long end of the first government, when our debt was €8 billion, today, when we came to $30 billion. That is to say, if we have reduced this €460 million of GDP by 700 million, the logic of the United Left of Slovenia's GDP should increase by around 35 billion when we committed to it by €22 billion. This logic does not hold up either at the expenditure level or at the income level. So this fog sale is about the same as Cyprus was selling before the elections, but when you face some reality, you're willing to go on saving. All countries had this formula, and after five months we see the implementation of Margaret Thatcher: The problem with socialism is that you eventually run out of foreign money. Sirizi only made it in five months. I find it interesting that different estimates are, some have calculated 40,000 euros to come up with this proposal that we have made if it has been extended by two hours. The Slovenian student organisation calculated about a million 200 years ago, but then they changed the matter, but when there was a speech about Greece earlier, what was going on there, we need to know that we are participating with about 1.7 billion euros in loans and guarantees in Greece. The problem is to give something 10 or, say, 100,000 euros of possible financial impact for this law, as the Secretary of State says it will be. The problem is to give for student food, the problem is to give for primary school lunches, the problem is to give for veterans, but it is not a problem to give for Greece €1.7 billion or all the money that will follow after the finance minister Dusan Maramor has agreed, as it will be. And what are we financing with this? The problem is to give us here, but we are funded in Greece, say a woman, a woman who gives birth to a child, and if she is 50 years old, she has a minor child — that is, if a woman in Greece is born at 32 years of age, at the latest at 32 years of age, she can retire at 50 years of age. That's what we finance. But we don't fund these students. We are funding an average income per capita in 2008 in Greece of EUR 31 000 500. 31 thousand 500 Euros! This is what we finance with our money, 1.7 billion euros to Greece – there is no money for the Slovenians again. And not to speak of all tax evasions, when there has been a talk about the terrorism of Greece, I also have to take a bit of the government's side here. No one, nor the finance minister, terrorises Greece if it is a guarantee that you will borrow something that must be returned and blame the German and French banks when they sponsored Greece or when the Greeks borrowed money from them. It's like blaming yourself for obesity because you're going to McDonald's. You're going there alone. Nobody's forcing you. I would just like to point out two more public statements made by the Slovenian Youth Council and the Slovenian Student Organisation. The SOS has done so before our first proposal to extend this matter from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the evening. "We continue to publish a press release of the Student Organisation of Slovenia on student diet. The SOS supports proposals leading to improving the situation of students, as well as the proposal to extend the interval when students can benefit from subsidised student diet. Last year, when preparing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, the SOS also made a substantive proposal to extend the use interval of this subsidised diet. Last year, when preparing the amendments to amend the law governing the school diet, the SGEI presented substantive explanations for the extension of the time-limit for the use of the SGEI, including the recalculation of potential additional financial burdens for the budget. At this point, we cannot agree with the assessment made by Minister Kopač Dark that the extension of the time interval by 22:00 would amount to 1.2 million euro of additional costs. This assessment is based on the situation prior to the reduction of the time interval, and it is also necessary to take into account that part of the students of the SGEI has already been transferred to the interval before 20 hours, which currently would not have increased the number of consumers by the whole number before the limit. In addition, there has also been a general decline in the use of vouchers, which is also attributed to other changes in the system of vouchers, such as the reduction in the number of fast food providers and the numerical decline of the student population. According to our calculations, the savings from 2013 to today amount to €6 million. Although the SOS proposal was not adopted last year, although there was no strong opposition to the content of the proposal itself, the fear of financial consequences prevailed in particular, and the SOS has prepared calculations that would allow them to carry out a fairly accurate assessment of the financial implications of the budget." And today, two hours ago, on Facebook he also published a press release from the Youth Council of Slovenia: "Today in the National Assembly they are discussing the extension of the use of subsidised student diet to 22:00. At MSS, we support the debate on the situation of students. Our view is that we need to provide students with quality studies, including quality life, which is also part of healthy nutrition. In doing so, let us not forget that with today's day, students will not be able to use student vouchers for one month, even though some student commitments have not yet been completed. We hope that Members and Members will also have this aspect in mind in today's debate." This is what the Youth Council of Slovenia, where members of the Youth Forum of Social Democrats also support this proposal as well as the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Since he was a smile, the president of the Slovenian Youth Council is also a member of the Social Democrats, so I am grateful for his support and also think a little about the SD in order to support this proposal. So far, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you. We are already in the general debate of MEPs and Members on the proposal for a law. However, Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor. But get ready for Mrs. Maria Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. I listened with interest to the views of the members of the groups, as well as to Mr Mahnič's debate on the explanation of the bill, but I would have initially responded to Mr Chuš's debate, although it did not concern the amendment of the law itself when he spoke of 74 million guarantees for young people and 1%. This is a matter of pyar, and this is a misleading pyar; the Youth Guarantee measures took place last year as a result of a 24% increase in the employment of unemployed young people. If 20 000 young people have been employed each year, they have also been employed under the Youth Guarantee measures in the past year, almost 25% more said. Youth unemployment has fallen from more than 20% to the current unemployment rate of around 17% – we are still too busy fighting this, but we cannot say that the Youth Guarantee measures have had no effect. The Youth Guarantee measures prepared by the Ministry of Labour were commended by the European Commission. A concrete job training project was selected as a causal case by the European Commission as a model example of good practice for other Member States. Now that I have explained this, I would return to the very content of the bill. There have been quite a few debates today in particular on the financial implications. It was explained that the purpose of the provisions of the Public Finance Balance Act, in order to achieve this measure, was to save up to 20 hours. Today, when it is proposed in the bill to be extended until 10 p.m., the proposer says that there are no public financial consequences. So it's whether we didn't save back then or whether there are financial consequences today. The bill suggests to the government that it spars to save money to save on students, that it does not want to provide additional budget resources to enable students to eat by 10:00. But you say in the bill that there are no public financial implications for the budget. So we can't argue with something that you claim isn't. A number of things have been agreed within the framework of the Public Finance Balance Act. Yes, the student organisation has also agreed on this measure to limit the use of subsidised student meals to only 20 hours. There's been a lot of other arrangements. Also fixed amount of funding of the student organisation from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Now there's no talking about it. What was said in a few discussions today was that we do not leave to adults what students are, are undoubtedly, and that they can think with their heads when it is wise for them to eat a warm meal. The government by this law and the law itself does not prevent anyone from eating a meal at 10 a.m., at 4 p.m., at 7 p.m. or at midnight. Nobody gets in the way. However, the Government is not obliged to subsidise or have the right to subsidise such a way of eating, which it considers to be healthy, this has been mentioned several times today, and it is said that it subsidises such a diet which is consistent with the purpose of eating during the study process, i.e. between 8 a.m. and 20 p.m. And if we have already mentioned in the introduction that the Higher Education Act provides that a student’s study obligation may last up to forty hours a week if the possibility of a subsidised meal is given between 8 and 20 hours, twelve hours a day at five days a week, we think that there is sufficient time to use a subsidised meal during the day. Once again, it is only a question of a subsidised meal, it is not a question of any meal. It certainly seems important to me to stress – and here, I think you all agree, and so it is also right – that healthy nutrition is important. In this respect, it is worth noting that every two years the Ministry, when preparing an invitation to tender for subsidised student nutrition providers, is increasingly stressing in the invitation to tender that providers provide a healthy diet in order to provide good products for our students as well. We are convinced that healthy diet also affects the quality of studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u103	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague. We're so funny when we're always dealing with the kind of suggestions we like. When we are in the coalition, we introduce them, we eliminate them, and when we are in the opposition, we revive them again. Like one of these, the amendment of the law on subsidised student diet is expected to be extended until 22 p.m. in the evening. In 2012, the other Janševa government introduced a new student diet system in the spirit of austerity measures, which limited the use of student vouchers to 20.00 hours. This was a good measure and we want it to stay. It should also be maintained due to a healthy diet, which is also discussed in the Resolution on the National Health Programme. We are aware that students are largely aware of healthy nutrition and find a time to benefit from this subsidised meal among the daily study obligations. Of course, healthy eating is mainly in the morning and morning hours, when we are aware, and also when the river says that an empty bag does not end, it also applies to students, not just to students and children. We would also be reminded of recreational and sports activities, which students also enjoy at night after hard study. We are all aware that it is difficult to enjoy healthy recreation with a full stomach, and then there are such accidents that our colleague Jan warned us about today. In the event that the eating time is extended to 10 p.m., it would be up to me to offer our students an unhealthy, subsidised meal. The financial aspect is not negligible either. If this time were to benefit only one student pass between 20 and 22 hours, it would have exceeded even 40,000 euros. Yeah, that's right. And since we keep talking about hungry children in primary schools, about those whose parents cannot offer them a warm meal, I think that these 40,000 euros would be really useful to offer them to our children for that purpose. That's the way to change this law, unfortunately, we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Slug ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u106	Where do I start? I'll start with the predecessor and then the lady from Desus. I had to hear again that we're some populism to sell some empty candy, I don't know what. I'll tell you the truth that the Public Finance Balance Act was probably not a perfect law. It was hard for a lot of people when they had to give up their rights. However, I am sure that it was part of the people who supported it in order that if we squeezed for a year or two, we would all be better off after that period. But we can have a scenario that we'll have empty banks, just like it is in Greece, right? Now that I listen to what damage the ZUJF has caused, when I hear it from the MPs and the MPs of the coalition, I don't know – stop putting us in front of cameras, us and the people, and put the law in place and end the ZUJF! Please, come on! Come on, do it! When I hear about populism, probably populism is also a debt write-off law, but it will have for us, because we will all pay for it, including the great financial consequences. And this Social Democrats competition with the United Left, we're all going to pay for it. And I'm sure a lot of people in the coalition don't like it and have a headache. I support the good purposes of the laws, not the ones where you compete with each other. As for Mrs Jenko, who said that they would not support this in the Desus Group, I was a bit of a negative surprise. And not because the elders or members of Desus would do anything, because I believe that everyone else would back it up to do something for grandchildren and grandchildren, but when she said it was empty candy. We can go to empty candy right now. Who spoke in 2008, when I heard about the minimum wage of 1,000 euros net, I heard about the pension of 1,000 euros, the lowest – where is this today? Last time I looked at some analysis in one of the Slovenian journals, which shows that pensions are real, given how much they are falling, and have fallen by 10% in the last few years. When you come up with an argument, everybody looks down. I will support Desus' proposals for a better tomorrow for all pensioners and pensioners, but let's start looking, please, at the 200-euro pension farmers. We have proposed this, but I do not know how they voted on the other side. Let's have the same vats for everyone, not today, but tomorrow, otherwise, please! So once again, I appeal to everyone in the coalition who is saying how bad the ZUJF is, and how he took it, put in a law to end the ZUJF, and first, consider the Minister of Finance, who says that we should extend it even so that it should be permanent. Because we have to be consistent. We don't make laws in the parliamentary group, because some of you say we're invested in closets, and I don't know where we are, but because we're following the pre-election programme. We will, of course, go with this proposal and work to the full. If we do not go today, we will probably put it in again, not because of the debate here, but because of the school's previous mandate of the National Assembly, when then the largest parliamentary group, then the Positive Slovenia and the List of Zoran Jankovic, will fall apart in half and then there will be a lot of acceptance in the National Assembly, and the Members will also make a marked change in their views. Then it'll be an opportunity. The school of new faces not only costs us a lot, but teaches us that there are elections first, there is more room for manoeuvre to get something through. But I'll say it. Today we do have one small opportunity to do something about student diet. I counted whether the representatives of the parliamentary groups were right or were telling the truth. There are currently 36 votes in favour. It's a little short, no. But if someone can't support it, he can go to the bathroom. When Mr Pogačar attacked me earlier that I was misleading the Slovenian public, if I did so, I apologize, but from the official statistics of the Youth Council of Slovenia, they were published both on Twitter and on www.mss.si and, of course, I took their opinion as representative in this case. When I became a member of the National Assembly, and it will be a half for two years, I thought I had to do something first to harmonise policy intergenerationally, because we owe ourselves on one hand to future generations, but we don't want to put anything that we have today aside. This is not going to work because we are going to put the country in the way of young people, but I apologize for the slightly sharper expression, and if we want to harmonise policy intergenerationally, we must also start to take young people into account in it, not to push them away and use them only when they fit in with someone. That would be one of my appeals. I am aware that five billion euros must be taken to put the pouf in banks. But I agree with you. Just let those people go into trouble and get that money back. But so far we have not heard anything — no! That is how this is a policy of equal vats and a policy of accountability of justice. We don't have that today. There was also much discussion about sports activities during the study. I remember the interview for the minister. I think that last and last time, although very fast in a row, they both supported the idea of introducing sports education into college or college curricula, regardless of the programmes. I think that would be an excellent suggestion. If someone were to prepare it, it would be worth supporting, because this Bologna reform, as I said before, did not exactly bring the desired effects, so that many colleagues, acquaintances, we have to be in there for days and recreation costs something. That's what I'm talking about. I will support these proposals. As far as the proposal is concerned here in this law. We have put it into first reading only for the purpose of being able to amend it properly until the second treatment, i.e. at the home work body, at your request, your proposals to step together, and to see what is the most optimal solution. And before that, we invite the young. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u107	Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Dude, I don't know what we could do here. The only change is an extension of two hours, we disagree with this extension and think that what is now is optimal. And I don't know what else I can do here right now. Today we are dealing fully with the same proposal that we have dealt with this year. At that time, of course, we rejected this proposal. I've already said today that it won't be any different. Why is that? If I look again at the history of events on the subject of student diet. The argument that the applicant always makes is that they have made a mistake and acknowledge their mistake and now they want to correct it, of course they do not. This is because it is not only the ZUJF, which is obviously a very sensitive topic, but the one with which the student nutrition candidate sought to introduce some similar restrictions at the time of the first Janša government, but because of strong opposition the proposal did not see the light of the day. Then the second Janševa Government, with this infamous ZUJF, abolished the right to a subsidised meal between 16 July and 15 August, at a time when there was no study obligation, and also limited the hour of use to 8 a.m. until 20 p.m., since there were no restrictions prior to this measure. The third opportunity to change was also in 2014, when such a change to this time interval was proposed by the Student Organisation until 22 p.m. and the third time the applicant did not respond. I so strongly doubt the sincerity of these claims. It seems particularly interesting to me that you insist this time on stating that the law has no financial implications, even though we have found that this is not the case today and even before that. One thing you have already said today is that when you introduced the limit yourself, you did, and this is your argument, due to the sustainability of public finances and budget savings. With this proposal, you deny yourself, your own claims. Today, too, it has been repeatedly pointed out that in a letter sent to the competent ministry in June 2013, the SOS calculated that the extension of time today on the agenda would have a public financial impact of approximately EUR 1.3 million, a concrete impact is of course very difficult to assess. I would also say that the question of whether the calculation is accurate is, however, it is clear that the budgetary resources for this purpose should be increased in concrete terms. In the period 2000-2012, the budget for this item increased by 161%, i.e. the country did not limit the subsidised student diet in any way during these years. However, after the adoption of the law in 2012, the effect of these restrictions would have been around 3 million. So, financial effects are, we have to take into account the fact that a lot of students also say they prefer to cook at home, because that's still the price, however. We can assess that only a measure to eliminate the use of subsidised food between July 15th and August 15th was a savings of around €700,000 annually, and if we trust this issue of the Student Organisation, these two additional hours are another €1.3 million. As I have already said, I doubt that this number is correct, but I can say with certainty and certainty that the effect is not less than €40 000, as stated in this proposal. Therefore, the applicant should also state the financial effects, and this is the other non-resistance cited by the applicant. However, the third non-resistance refers to indications that the reason for the proposal to extend the study process is. Of course, in my previous discussion, I said that I had checked the faculty schedules, the only course which has a maximum of 3 times a week's lectures by 20 p.m. in the evening, is the university's Social Informatics programme on FDV, and this is only 4 years old, with lectures starting at 10 or 12 p.m. in such a case starting at least 2 p.m. in some days also 4 p.m. It would be so hard to say that we couldn't afford a warm meal at that time. One course of painting was also mentioned by the proposer in spring, which was supposed to have such a schedule, and this time I also checked this and found that such a schedule of 2nd years has one day in a week with two hours of individual intermission, i.e. twice an hour. I think that eating a warm meal in one hour should not be a problem, especially if we are aware that all employees in this country are available for lunch for half an hour. If we are still claiming or listening to claims that this is an extension of the study process, then I would somehow expect that the Higher Education Act should be amended, which lays down some standards for the burden of students, but you do not propose them, because, of course, this argument does not hold up. Since this law already provides for a maximum of 30 hours of weekly lectures and exercises, and even if the study program contains practical training, this limit is 40 hours per week. From everything I have told my speakers, I need to find that we have a very good system in Slovenia, and I think we really do not need to change at this point. On the one hand, we can find that the subsidised diet belongs to all students, regardless of their social status, in fact only to student status. Student food vouchers can be used today in more than 550 establishments and restaurants. Unused vouchers may be transferred from month to month. This year, too, the tendering conditions have changed and are somehow more focused on healthy nutrition. However, if we look at other European countries, we quickly find that they do not have such a good deal. For example, Sweden has only cash compensation to cover its diet. Austria subsidises food in guest restaurants offering low-priced meals for students, again some other countries have cafeterias in their colleges where food is slightly more favourable. However, the opening times of these cafeterias are in most cases, you will not believe, but only by 3 p.m., but these tables are following exactly the same objective as the subsidised diet with student vouchers is trying to follow in us. Apparently, even though they are only open by 3 p.m., they are pursuing and achieving this goal. However, there are also countries that do not know the menu or the student vouchers, and I will not continue to explain for a long time how, when, and where, because of the previous reading, this exercise of mine has come to light, how far have some of us gone in looking for some of the artificial arguments to reject this proposal. It is not about looking for arguments for rejection, it is about checking how they have arranged elsewhere, whether there are better practices elsewhere that would be applied and followed. In addition, the comparative review is a mandatory component of the proposal which can be put into the procedure. In fact, this information could already be printed by the applicant. Here I can also conclude that the applicant does not in fact state any substantial arguments as to why this change would be necessary, what would then be better and better. To conclude, our current system is a good one, allowing students a warm meal, which is also the main objective of the subsidised student diet. Compared to other countries, it is significantly better. The proposal we have again on the table does not bring any added value in terms of both accessibility and quality, and we will therefore not support it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u109	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I just need to respond to this implementation. It was said that when we filed this and said that we had made a mistake — it was not true! Show me in the magnetogram where I or Mr. Hearst said we were wrong. I can give you procedurally, we can interrupt the session to bring me a magnetogram or better told Mrs. Servant to show me where I am or me or Mr. Hear we said we were wrong. We're not wrong! But, as we say, we aligned these things with the student organization then, with the students. Because if we were wrong, we would today come up with a law saying that we should return 24 hours a day, returning 365 or 366 days a year to a subsidized student diet. That would mean we were wrong. However, just to propose a two-hour extension, it is not a recognition or any implementation in the sense that we have made a mistake, but only the latter, as suggested by the Student Organisation last year, in order to extend the case for two hours. When you say the matter has financial implications and what the problem with money is in the state budget. Interestingly, a day or two ago, during the meeting, you wrote an amendment for the average of congregations from 514 to 519; 5 million — no problem. So not to say that money is not, not to say that it can't be done in such a fast way, but that it is also concerned in this way that it can be arranged. As far as there is no financial implications; see, the state must guarantee money on the assumption that every day a student uses a student voucher. For so many vouchers, the state has to provide money. Even if past years show they haven't spent all of them. What if I did? Why don't we spend more vouchers this year than we did last year? So, as far as financial matters are concerned, this matter is closed because we have to assume, if we give something, we have to assume that the worst scenario for the state budget, if I can thus say that everything we expect to be spent on young people is to be given to students and students. As regards the extension of the study process, it can be seen that Mrs Slug spoke to her again or not to have checked everyone. During its implementation, Mr Lisec texted his wife, who works at the Faculty of Information Studies: Do you ever have a study process until 20? She replied: “Yes. He wrote: “Do you know if you remember any other colleges quickly? She also said that at the Faculty of Applied Social Studies. So, we got two colleges in a hurry. If we looked at everything, we'd find it takes up to 20 hours. Here's the Faculty of Tourism, and there's the art college. It's gonna be a process until 8:00. By thinking again, it's empty again. Again, earlier, it had been a speech by the Secretary of State and Mrs Bačič to offer an unhealthyly subsidised meal with this proposal. We do not offer this, it is offered by the guests or students themselves who know what a healthy meal is, and they know what is not a healthy meal. But it's not up to us to decide whether someone leaves at 8 p.m. or 22 p.m. to eat popcorn or go to a salad with chicken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Matjaž German has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! Since 2009, our people and all of them have had to give up many things together. I must say that this crisis, this situation that has touched global, European and our country, has not been easy for anyone. In this regard, for certain reasons, a number of rights have been withdrawn, for some reasons, slightly less justified in the light of the circumstances. It is the Social Democrats that are concerned that we are receiving some positive impulses, that we take this responsibility to make sure that they are determined, I will say, privileges or rights — better said — are somehow returned to people. I must say that I am particularly proud of the work of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities in view of the difficult work they are doing in such difficult times. All of Dr. Anja Kopač's team; that is, we must be aware that in these difficult times it is the ministry that actually communicates directly with people who feel the distress of people who are actually trying to depreciate, I will say, all of the hardships that people get every day. In a way, people, at least statistics show that they appreciate their work. That is why Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is very well evaluated, among the best, if not the best minister, very well doing her job, especially due to the, I will say, feelings towards the fellow man he has, to the approach and to the way he solves his problems. Certainly today, we cannot be exactly impressed with the fact that there are many other circumstances that are being misused to present the issue as a unique priority. Indeed, we must be aware that during the crisis we were, there were young people, besides pensioners who were in some way the most deprived of their rights. Statistically speaking, they're not exactly students, but they're families with little kids who have actually been hit most by the crisis in their pockets, if I may say so. Students need help in several forms to encourage them to find employment as quickly as possible, after they have completed their studies to help them get to their first apartment as soon as possible, so that they can form their nests, I will say, and in a way that they can start living. In the past, it was easier, in fact, our parents' generation had been promised before they even completed their studies, they got a job, they got an apartment, and they were able to somehow shape their lives. This is no longer the case, and that is why we need this feeling that we have for everyone, I will say, the layers of the population, to all categories, and students are also very important here. Personally, and I'll be honest, but I think today we have almost a three-hour debate about extending from 20 to 22 hours a possibility of subsidised nutrition seems a little excessive. I must say that here students have twelve hours of opportunity – mentioned that some of the study programs that exceed 20 o'clock are but I highly doubt that it takes 12 hours to find a way to find time between eight o'clock in the morning and eight o'clock in the evening. I wonder what I'm talking about, what we're even talking about. It is not easy for me to discuss these matters, it is a serious matter, but it seems to me that it is a priority that the National Assembly should talk about this for three hours while we could talk about how we will find young families a possible apartment, an education so that people will not leave us and that our country will still be attractive enough and young people will stay at home. I don't know if this is a key issue not only for our society, but also for students. Someone said earlier that we Social Democrats are also those who have representatives in youth organisations and represent positions. This is perfectly normal. [[…]] It is clear that they will defend their views, but those who must then give their hand, because that is what we are to the politicians, in some way must overcome this reason, in some way to whom we take what we give, to whom we give or to whom we must pay more attention, in the coming months, in the coming periods, what we will return to the people. We will be very careful about that for the Social Democrats. I'm sorry, I don't think that's a priority, I'm going to be very short here, because I don't think this topic is that important, and I'm going to give the applicant the opportunity to explain to me how he thinks. But, because I think our people are clear, I think we're wasting time, not because of the weight of importance, I think it's important, but because of the weightier priority that we have to have as the National Assembly. I certainly will not support this proposal, but I believe that we can do more for this segment of the population, I am talking about students, with some other consistent proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u113	Havela. Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! My debate today will be extremely brief, that is, we talked about this a few months ago, and everything has already been said today, so our discussions are flying left, right, but we are mostly not sticking to the subject because we have already told each other everything. At the start, however, I would like to replicate in the name of Mrs Slug to Mr Mahnic. Perhaps not today, neither you nor Mr Hearst said you were wrong, but at the last session, when we discussed this proposal, Mr Lisec said this. But maybe Mrs. Slug has this little "mixed" thing because we talk about the same things all the time. Then Mr. Lisec said, "We said we were wrong, but we're trying to fix it." But it's no big deal, but that's when you said it, and I think it's still true, but now you want to fix this time by 10:00 p.m. But now it is the main question that we must ask ourselves today and that answers whether or not we want to support this law at all. Thus, the purpose of the vouchers is to provide students with one subsidised meal per day during the study process. And from eight to eight, this is guaranteed. Pika. We don't really have anything to talk about anymore. At that time, everyone, including those with up to eight studies, has the time to go to lunch. You can't convince me that, say, from 12 to 20 p.m., they're sitting in classrooms all the time. I was a student myself, so I know what that's like. Well, you have time to eat, and we don't really need those two hours. They bring certain financial consequences behind them, now exactly what the number is, obviously I don't know, but they do. Of course, if we ask students whether we would like this benefit to be extended by two hours, this right to a subsidised meal; of course they will say: Yes! I mean, who wouldn't have any better than he does? But those responsible, who understand that this still entails some financial means, can admit that from eight to eight p.m., it is said, from eight o'clock in the morning to eight o'clock in the evening, enough time to go to a warm meal subsidized by the state. I would also conclude with what was previously said by New Slovenia that the state should not prohibit anything concerning nutrition, given that we are all adults, including students. But this is about the state not prohibiting anything. But if the country has an opinion and this opinion is supported by the fact that what is healthy nutrition and when healthy nutrition is to take place, and if the state gives money for this diet, I think the State has the right to determine when it will give that money. But with this, the country does not forbid us citizens to decide for ourselves when to eat, what to eat, how to eat, where to eat. You're still on your own. But what she's paying for may be just fine or I'm sure it's perfectly fine to set this time interval on its own. The purpose of the law has now been achieved and there is now no one reason to really change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Mahnic, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u116	Yes, Vice President. I thank Mr Zajc because at least there is someone who has spoken directly about what we are proposing or about the law. Now, as far as Mrs Slug is concerned, it is possible that this is what my colleague Lisec said. I must admit that I was abroad when we first discussed this law, when we first proposed it, so I don't know what was said at the time. But I really understood it as if someone, me or Mr. Hearst, said that by this law we said we were wrong. So there's obviously been a misunderstanding here. As for the warm meal offered by the State, today this matter has been overturned, even though we are talking about food, that I am already very hungry because I have not eaten for seven hours, and this is an effort. We also see Members, although we have a menzo below, that sometimes you just don't have time to eat, let alone students, because we, although we are here in the hall, can just go down and they are there in the classrooms. We really can't tell when someone's going to eat. But if we're offering one hot meal a day, it doesn't say what kind of meal it is. For example, even the morning sandwiches that can be taken on the vouchers are unhealthy food, and in some ways, we allow it at eight o’clock in the morning, thus allowing unhealthy nutrition. Our proposal is only that if the study process, as we have seen today, lasts somewhere until 8 p.m., so that the clock can be extended for those two hours, when most of the restaurants and cafeterias are open so that students can go to eat. But what will one eat, what is healthy food, what is not healthy food, what is hard to prescribe. We see how some get away, those who offer the vouchers have unhealthy food, and they have, say, given either soup or salad, because it says there that they have to offer a variety or a healthy diet and that this thing goes through. Once again, we proposed only to allow those who may not have time to have lunch to take a few hours of study alone to go again to ten o'clock in the evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mrs Simona Lepi Šimenka. Susanna Pretty Chimenka, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u118	Madam Vice President! Of course, I will support the law that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the parliamentary procedure because I think it is a good one, and of course it solves a particular problem that is facing the young generation. Why do I say that? I affirm this because this law, which we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure, supports the SOS and the Council of Youth of Slovenia. These are, in my opinion, representative organizations that know exactly what's good for them and what they need. I can't believe that politicians are getting smarter, we always want to create a story, we put some conditions under some directives, how someone has to do something. I think that this has gone too far in our society, especially here in Slovenia, I see that every day there are more, more and more limited, more and more people in all areas, rather than allowing them to function normally, they can normally operate in this society, they can be disabled by such and other administrative measures in this way. And it seems unfair to me, unnecessary, but above all, it does not go in a direction like at least the one for young generations, for all generations in this society, so that they can function as normal in this society as they can. Among these are students and children who go to high school, and if they have made it clear together that they want these changes also in these time dimensions, I think they could be able to do so through the adoption of this law. However, I see that there is always a problem, not whether this law is good or bad, because it has been submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's amazing how long we've been listening to the same story over and over again. As soon as the name of the Slovenian Democratic Party appears in the background, the matter is indigestible for any socialist government and coalition, a populist measure that we propose, etc. Tell me something, however, whether there is in this House, in all history, since there is a Slovenian Democratic Party, one party that has tabled several legislative proposals in the parliamentary procedure, as the Slovenian Democratic Party has done. Tell those of you who are sitting in this House! I think that the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled so many legal proposals alone as all the other parties in this Parliament together and more than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And then we can hear about the populace all the time here on this page, and I don't know what. Yes, how long do you think you and the regime media will manipulate the Slovenian people with the Slovenian people? How much longer? And every second word is, John Janša is guilty of it; Janša's government is guilty of it; Janša's government is to blame. Most importantly, and I will now repeat this once again that all those in this House and the Slovenian public will hear, 2004-2008, the only government in the history of Slovenia, which has taken over the leadership of this country from 96 000 when 2004 reduced, I think to 56 000 2008. This is about 40,000 new jobs, and we are not talking about 100,000 jobs where foreign workers have been in our society. And can someone say that's not true? Somebody say it! Please, all of you, stand up when I've finished this debate, and tell me that's not true! Tell me which government in this country has succeeded, and which government is then according to yours, the one that has done the most for all generations. The job had young, middle-aged, old, well-paid, everything worked out, we all lived. If you look at the other two indicators, at that time we had our first flattened budget, the practically surplus was 2008. Let's not talk about birth! Families began to regulate, and so many children were born, etc. That's not funny. That's the truth. See what happened between 2004 and 2008? When did the birthrate in Slovenia begin to increase? Tell me, look. It's not funny, it's the truth! Look at that. And why did this happen? Because the families had the right conditions for survival. That's why they chose children, births, etc. It's all connected. I wish I had stopped listening to these nonsensees in this national assembly, forgive me, these lies and deceptions and all that we hear: Janša's government is responsible for everything. In fact, the only government in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, which has been proven by what I have just said, has proved how to function and how to act when leading the country. I've heard about the ZUJF a hundred times today. Why was the ZUJF adopted then? Any of you who criticize him all the time asked why. The ZUJF was adopted because the Borut Pahor government commissioned the country to a ceiling of 8 billion or 9 billion in one term in three years. GDP fell from plus 4, plus 5 to minus 7 and 8%, respectively. At that time, the situation in that country was extremely critical and something had to be done, otherwise the countries would no longer have it today. We'd be much worse than the Greeks. Desus also sat in that government, and today I heard criticism from their Members at the expense of what Desus was pressing the button at the time, supported and the silent agreement was a complete parliament because it was necessary at that time to do so. At that time, we wrote down nicely when we accepted the ZUJF, that when the economic growth will be 2 and a half percent – a number of the measures that were adopted at the time – will not be permanent – we will close it as soon as that happens. And this government has now had this opportunity. Then you're telling us that we're putting together the laws we like. Even when we're talking about war veterans for Slovenia; of course, it's logical that we have to invest this because we stick to what we've proposed, that's what we did when we wrote the election campaign into our program. It's very clearly written. Even when we accepted the ZUJF, we made that clear. That is why we have decided to submit this measure and to change this story and to return to the war veterans for Slovenia what was then taken. And don't fool the regime media and all those supporters here in this parliament and outside this Parliament! And don't lie to the public! Don't do this because I don't like it and I can't stand it because it's a real deception and it's unacceptable that you talk about the Slovenian Democratic Party in this way. We are a national party, we have been fully engaged all the time, and we are committed to making people worth living in this country, the Republic of Slovenia. We're not the ones who would support you - today I've just read what will probably say in Finance tomorrow, how these authorities are now defending these tycoons who have stolen so much and so, hundreds of millions of money [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u119	Mr Pojbich [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u120	and try to write. [[…]] It's all connected. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u121	Mr Pojbič, we are under the law on student nutrition subsidies. You've been talking for eight minutes, and you haven't said another word about student diet.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u122	Dear lady, I said [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u123	Please proceed with your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u124	Yes, well, Madam Vice President. Madam Vice-President, please listen to the debate in this House today. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u125	I listened to her. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u126	I'll get you some magnetograms, and read what people have been saying. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u127	Please, if you continue, your time is running out. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u128	Did you listen to what the United Left said? [[…]] And please don't reach out to me because you haven't spoken to anyone else. I do not allow this as a member of the National Assembly to make you so discriminatory to me. You don't have that right. If we did, we should all do the same. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u129	Please, if you'll continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u130	Not just me. [[…]] Madam President, please don't touch my word. Let me tell you the truth. It is right that in this Slovenian Parliament the Slovenian people hear the truth. We don't have to hide from the truth. I was only talking about the truth and again the truth and honesty. That's what I'm talking about. And you cannot prevent me in the Slovenian Parliament, I say, because citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia voted for me, not you as Vice-President of this Parliament. And don't touch me again, please. I'm sorry I raised my voice a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u131	Apology accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u132	So, as far as this marriage is concerned, I think I said in the first place that I would support this marriage. I think that this law needs to be supported, especially because it is also behind the SOS and the Slovenian Youth Council. I think it's fair, responsible to all these young people who know exactly what they need and what they want. We, too, have said in the introduction – you said that I had not said a word about this law before – and I made it very clear why we support this law. We wish that we do not administratively restrict those who want to be able to function differently in some system, as we have written here in some law. We are trying to do what we think has been done wrong so that these groups of people will be satisfied with what we have proposed in the law. This is the intention of this law and also the reason why we tabled this law and why we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Get Mrs. Andreja Potočnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Let me remind you that with the proposed amendment, we are merely extending the hour when students will be able to eat a subsidised meal. I would just like to point out that the work of students is not just a visit to exercises and lectures. This really never lasts more than 12 hours. I'll say that the main part of the study is the time that students actually spend behind books. The time when they write various seminar assignments, they write diplomas, and that's the key to it. If I remember my student years, we worked very differently. One of us got up at five in the morning, and in the morning we studied, and many of us studied, for example, late at night, by one, two, even three at night. That's why I don't think it makes sense why we don't let students have a decent meal at the 14-hour interval. Let them decide for themselves. In fact, this is not related to healthy nutrition. The rhythm of the students is slightly different from the rhythm of the employed people, and that seems to be the key here. As far as financial means are concerned. The assessment of the Student Organisation of Slovenia is EUR 1.2 million – I would really like to know how they got this number. That's, I think, quite the figure. I believe that students will eat nothing more than they have eaten so far. There will be no more use, the restrictions on the number of subsidised meals remain the same. Even the time between meals remains the same, it does not change. It only changes when students can actually benefit from this subsidised meal. Personally, I think this proposal is a good one. It seems to me that there will be absolutely no harm to the state budget, which is why, of course, I also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Get Mr. Miha Kordish ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Since I don't have a lot of time, I'm going to be very short and tiny. As far as savings are concerned, how much and what. I would like to return to 2012, the other Janševa government, which, with a view to repeating, ensuring sustainable public finances and to reducing budgetary expenditure, has adopted this very limitation, in addition to the limitation of the additional month in summer times. And the figures are clear: before spending was 17.1 million when this law was passed in 2012, it was spent on student nutrition, 14 million and 14.2 million in 2014. So I think the financial aspect here is perfectly clear and it's not made up and I'm not saying anything. Furthermore, you've made no mistake, you've made no mistake, it doesn't really matter now. I insist that this limit of 8 to 20 hours is still large enough that 12 hours can be human. I do not deny that the study does not take place until 20, but we must ask ourselves when such a study, which takes up to 20 hours, begins or how long it takes — even one hour is enough for a person to go to a warm meal. And this is where every student needs to organize. Let me also remind you that this subsidised diet is available to every student, regardless of social status. So they have the so-called universal right. And we forget that this is really available to all students. Furthermore, there was an argument that some students would start their studies at 4: 00 p.m. and come to Ljubljana at 4: 00 p.m. and then be here by 8:00 p.m. and then have no opportunity to eat after 8:00 p.m. You know, they can come to Ljubljana at 3 p.m., they go to eat and then they go to college. These are simple solutions, only will has to be done. It was once mentioned that students already know for themselves, young people themselves know what they want, young people might want something else, and young people might want some more fun in the evening so that some other thing might be subsidized, but the finances are something else. [[…]] I have to finish this slowly. While Mrs Ive Dimic is not, she said in her position that she did not really know why we are limiting the time of use of the vouchers, that they are adults and they themselves decide when to eat Mrs Iva Dimic confirmed in 2012 the Law on the Balance of Public Finances, where she restricted them in this freedom. [[…]] Not that the decision was wrong, but she obviously forgot what she confirmed in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u138	President, thank you very much for your word. We've heard a little bit clever today in this debate. However, those who opposed the proposal of this law mainly cited two arguments. The first argument is a health argument that eating so late in the evening is not healthy. The second argument they cited was, however, much more technical, that students do not really have a problem with the fact that their subsidised diet runs out at 8 p.m. rather than at 10 p.m. So why would we even get some corrections here, if there's really no problem at all. What is completely missing from this debate is the real reason why this coalition does not want to support this reason. Finance. It is simply too difficult for this coalition and this government to devote those few fiches, and these are, from the point of view of the entire state budget, actually ficiers, to support students and to support their diet. This is what is at the core of the opposition to the proposal to subsidise student diet, this is what is really happening here. No matter how much you pick up and hide it and hide it for some arguments that are healthful kabayagi or technical kabayagi, we all know that in the middle of this government's austerity and squeamish mania. The coalition, of course, as a good, willing machine, supports the government's position, their will, and is completely uncritical of its own executive branch. That's it! This is all we have seen today and what we have heard today at this point and what we can finally draw from this discussion. Practically meaningless discussion, just another one of the disadvantages of this coalition, which is difficult to give for some proposals that support the social situation of people, for example, predicts such measures as the abolition of the 4th income class, which is a tax exemption for not 1% of the richest; no, no, 0.34% of the richest in Slovenia. Not only do you give tax breaks like those of the rich, really super rich people in our country, but in this way it is literally intended to rob Slovenian public finances, the Slovenian budget for 15 to 20 million euros. Today, however, they find it difficult to devote more than a million euros to the warm nutrition of students. I think after all this, after all this discussion, after all this turning of the wheel, after all this spending and wasting of words and excuses, it's time to say very loudly and with your finger what's really going on here. In the United Left, as I have already said in my opening position, we will support this proposal because this proposal is good, regardless of who proposed it. Some such wisdom, dear coalition, would also recommend to you. We will also support it for some fundamental reasons, because we are opposed to austerity policies, we are opposed to belt tightening policies, because these policies have proved to be socially extremely harmful, socially destructive, while at the same time their economic and declared budgetary or public financial objectives are not at all reaching Thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you. The word is Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u140	Yes, thank you, President for your word. Maybe because I don't have much time for financials. According to the law, every student has one subsidized hot meal a day. The financial consequences are in any case, but as I said last time, it would be ideal for countries not to eat students to take home from family refrigerators or family budgets. Then this would have financial consequences, but positive for the state budget and negative for the students or their families. In this mandate, we have passed several coalition or government laws, where the same was written, and we have proved that they have a million [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you. Would you like a word with the government representative, Mr. Pogacar? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Government, I would just like to explain once again what has already been said today. The bill, as has already been said, prolongs the possibility of offering a subsidised student meal. The government opposes this because it believes that the current regime is in line with the purpose. The purpose of the current regime is to provide each student with a subsidised meal during the course of the study process. The second reason is that it is not so much about financial consequences, it is also about a system of healthy nutrition; and again, I stress what has been repeatedly reported to the Government today. The government does not order, the government does not send students when to eat, but it has the right that when it subsidises student diet, it may not subsidise what it estimates is not healthy and which is not consistent with the purpose, and this is a meal during the study process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. For the last time on this subject, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry there won't be any support. We have heard many arguments, some for, some against in this debate, but under the line today with those who will press "against" I got the feeling that your vote against the voice of confirmation, that the then second government of Janez Janša with ZUJF was only doing the right thing. Believe me, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party at the time it was not easy, and I must say that today, when you speak to some, with the internship, that with the dual school system, that we come to the National Assembly with concrete measures, with some piranha moves for our party and you are critical on this account. No one said then, look at the SDS and coalition, look at Janša's case, although they come to this national assembly with unattractive measures, that is to say by measures that will cause them political harm and which we also oppose because of their pyar propaganda, and yet the hat down that you hope to do so. At that time, we put the country before our client, but then we could still be in debt, borrowed money, as long as it went along, shared there, shared there, but rather decided another way; the path that was only right for the country was then necessary for us to read today in some reports that we could also read among others from the crisis because of the five key actions of the other Janša government: the establishment of a bad bank, the establishment of a Slovenian State holding company, pension reform, labour market reforms and the consolidation of public finances. Things in particular, when they're a bad bank and SDH, where we said there's no expiration date, that everything will be reviewed, who's to blame. And that they would also answer, because of these two things the other government of Yanshe fell. Not because of a report by Dear Hair, but because of precisely these things, because the then government finally decided to step on the fingers of those who were guilty of this bank hole. And when we came up with such unpleasant measures, you criticized us, today, when we come up with the measures you like, you also criticize us. At least be consistent as far as this is concerned. By the way, you also objected at the time, I think that the Social Democrats, when the first Janša government introduced a free hot meal for all students, that it was a pre-election move and that I know what else, but it turned out that both students and parents were satisfied. Tomorrow, on the one hand, you could say that it is a piranha move to raise the price from 18, to 36% – I believe the coalition has a problem of providing money. It's easy to suggest. But the opposition is proposing, and the government is the one, no matter what it is, that it has to provide the money. It's hard to cut. However, we have never proposed that the ZUJF should be abolished now, because it would not be fair, because it is also not realistic, because some things that were applied at the time must be extended, because they went in some ways to life beyond their capabilities and only if we continue to look at a balanced budget in such a way that we will have no more problems than we have in the past or as some other countries have. Perhaps there will be a time to return or two hours to be extended when we are no longer talking here in this House, whether the problem is 4, 5, 6 million so that someone will not be hungry or someone will get two hours more to eat, not in haste, but in cultural evenings, because I do not agree – we have said, since then, it has been decided, whenever anyone wants to eat. And as it has already been said today, there are no financial consequences. If the budget is planned on the basis of used vouchers in 2014, this is not our problem, it is the problem of what this budget has planned because we have two options. The same number of vouchers probably will not be used, it can be less, which, of course, will be good for the state budget, but it will be more and there will be a need for a rebalancing. We must always assume that when we give one right, in this case the right to a subsidised student diet, one hot meal a day, we must always plan with financial means, as if it were a 100 % realisation, as if all of this were spent. As a result, we have said that this law has no financial implications. You know, if someone's planning to go to dinner, they're going to leave at 8:00 or 10:00, because there's something I need to know. From now on, the applicable legislation or regulation must be four hours between the first and second boxes. So this isn't about someone leaving at 8:00 and 10:00. See, we will vote, as we will, maybe there will be another transformation, as it has already happened, but perhaps only in thought: if the main problem is financial, we know that we will not get any worse because of such laws, and above all not improve, that it may be planned to calculate what it would mean, how many vouchers – I am sure that there would be no rush – how much would be due to such a proposal of necessary finances and that it will then be put into the budget when it is planned for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative Jean Mahnic and the representative of the Government, please apply by raising your deadlines. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Everyone has five minutes of time at their disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you, Vice President. I'm moving on to where I ended up earlier, with respect to finance. As my colleague Jean has just said at the end, the ministry has to predict that 100% of people will use a student voucher. And that's why there's no financial implications. And once again, what I said last time, it is obviously in the country's interest to have as few students use a student voucher as possible, and this will have a positive impact on the state budget. On the other hand, this government is always bragging about how we have economic growth and that some rights must now be restored. And you say today's bill is some kind of pear project. Members of the coalition, I would like to know how you will discuss and vote on Friday at an extraordinary meeting, when we will also have a very popular pir project, which I think we will unanimously support, in terms of school nutrition. A pyr project called politics, respected, and we will all support it. But today's proposal for a law, a technical law, is not good, and on Friday you will be the one who is talking about how this pyre project is supported by a similar law. Some laws, I think, were three or four laws in this mandate when the government wrote the same "law has no financial implications". And we all knew that in practice these laws have financial implications, but they are hard to calculate. And the President of the Laws placed it at a meeting of the National Assembly, and the laws were passed. Last time we had averages. During the meeting of the National Assembly, you proposed a decision to raise €514 to €519 million. "The money will be found by internal reallocation between budgetary users." Today, we have repeatedly rejected that sentence in the previous bill that the amount should be 1.2 million, and we all find that it is wrong. As far as a healthy meal is concerned. The law in Article 2 states: "In the invitation to tender, food quality and its price are taken into account as a priority criterion." Food quality is a healthy meal for me. That's what the rule book defines in particular. The invitations to tender shall state publicly what the conditions for this healthy food are. Now all of a sudden, we're all talking about the healthy lives of students, what the problem is if they eat by 10:00. In view of the debate of the coalition MPs, I expect once a law that restaurants should be closed in Slovenia after 20 o'clock because from this hour on, unhealthy food, locked refrigerators and nothing more to eat. It's kind of going that way. Health is a mess, but today the main concern is student health. It was said that a student would arrive an hour earlier in Ljubljana or Maribor or somewhere else in the educational center. What if the traffic does not allow it, or why not leave the student an hour later with a study at home? Some can learn in the morning, some prefer to eat in the morning, some prefer to eat in the evening and learn at night. It's a completely technical law, and you've made it a top policy. Moreover, the SD Member said that this is not a priority. Fine! I'm really wondering what the priority is in this country. Apparently, you've done X in your students too, and students aren't a priority. One of the MPs was tortured five minutes ago to list three colleges with a study process of up to 20 hours. I sent two essays, I received four answers: Faculty of Logistics, Faculty of Tourism, Faculty of Information Studies, FUDŠ. Four, with two text messages! Before that, a colleague from SMC explained how she worked hard all day, and I don't know how many days, and she found three solutions. There's a huge solution. Take a look at the schedules, not just the ones you like, and you'll find this more than enough. Not to mention college campuses abroad. Go into the world a little bit, and you'll see what it's like there. I'm sure they have a subsidized student meal by 8:00 and no further. Mistake! Go to Germany or some other country, so we don't always have Germany in front of our eyes, and you'll see when they have healthy meals. In short, it is a law that we want to relieve student and family budgets, and unfortunately we have made a story out of it completely unnecessary. Instead of unanimously adopting a technical law, we're talking about it as a pir experiment, and you're in for it once, and you're in for it once. I look forward to voting on Friday for members of the coalition under one of the similar laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all again! I didn't mean to come by, but this isn't my area, but we've heard about this subject a lot in this National Assembly. I might have come back when there was no such food aid from the state. We also studied at times, and we had lunch in the cafeteria in the "student" at the exact hour, in the middle of the day, and then in the evening dinner. And you always kind of planned and always kind of went to dinner or lunch, just like you did the day. That, of course, a healthy meal is divided by day or by day, I agree, since healthy diet must be during the day rather than in the evening late hours. I think you'll all have to confirm that. But now is not the time for students to study or go to classes all day rather than at times, it is not clear to me, because there have always been gaps between lectures. If we had maybe four hours together, then the break was four hours and so on. But to spend the whole day teaching, I find it hard to believe. However, in order for students today to be much better than they used to be, I cannot agree that we would not have time for the day to eat this meal. But if we monitor how students actually eat, and if we go to the cafeteria, I don't talk about it, a lot of them probably also eat healthy, but look a little, and you'll see what they eat in the evening hours when they order. I wouldn't go any further in this particular respect, but things are just so important. Since this topic was already in the National Assembly a while ago, I also talked to a number of students, and I have to tell you the truth that here and there someone has really said that this is a problem, but mostly they do not see this problem so that they can not eat this voucher or this meal during the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, a nice greeting on my behalf as well. Speaking of student diet today, we have heard many times today in these two hours that this is a problem. Of course, the problem is to extend students the possibility of eating healthy food for two hours. Today I have found that there are many experts in this national assembly in this area. Some spoke about how long it was possible to eat, others until when it was healthy to eat, and even there was an example of one group's position, which even showed how it should not be about food, what the consequences might be, and I find this to be a little irresponsible. Irresponsible from all of us to the students. I must also say, a fellow on my right said that certainly students are not as good today as they used to be. Let me say that most students in the Republic of Slovenia are certainly not only studying. But in order for him to study, he has to do something else. When the financial situation of this student’s family does not allow him to learn and go to the classroom. That is why I think it is important in this area, and let me also say on my behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that this is not acceptable. This problem is raised by students. Let me also say that it is a kitchen in inn restaurants, that it is not a cocktail, that it is fresh food, and students also warn that if they come ten minutes to eight, they often do not get any more food. You get something cold or something fast prepared, because the kitchens already know the deadline to close at eight, and from seven o’clock on, it’s a problem to get fresh food or the food they want. Of course, we talked a lot today when students should eat. Colleagues and colleagues, believe me, this is not up to us. If we do not vote on this bill today, they will certainly eat at half-nine, nine, half-ten or ten. But they're going to eat less healthy food. That's a fact. I fully understand the President of the Government. That's how they agreed, the money's gone, the financial consequences are such that the government can't "burn" it. But I find it very difficult to understand, in particular, that I have listened to valued colleagues from the largest coalition party, especially colleague Janjo Slug, so that they have not done much since April. Experts gave exactly the same opinion, the position that the colleague read in the middle of this hall and discussed exactly the same in the seat she was sitting in. They carried out an analysis of all European countries, such as food in these countries. But two days ago, when we were talking about tax checkouts, there was no research. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the left and right! We don't talk so many times in this room that something likes it. This marriage is about our students, and I therefore appeal to all of you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the 28th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DESCRIPTION OF THE RESOLUTION ON SUPPORT TO THE EUROPEAN Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism. The motion for a resolution was tabled by 21 MEPs and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this motion for a resolution, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, taking into account the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights and in the past resolutions already adopted on democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. He condemned totalitarian regimes and stressed the need to preserve the memory of the past because there can be no reconciliation without truth and memory. At the same time, it strongly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. However, the victims of these crimes and their family members are reminded of their compassion, understanding and recognition for their suffering. 25 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe, access to documents that are important for individuals and for scientific research is still unduly restricted in some Member States. And there is nothing different about us in Slovenia. The European Parliament therefore calls on Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of the former secret political police. In order to strengthen the European awareness of the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes, documentation and testimony about the restless European past must be supported, since there can be no reconciliation without memory. All totalitarian regimes, including communism in Slovenia or the former Yugoslavia, were jointly based on systematic and planned human rights violations. So that they came to power and were preserved in power. For the purpose of taking over the authorities, secret armed forces were used. We've got cars, we've got horses, we've got ozone, we've got fate, we've got SDV. In totalitarian regimes, the practice of secret service to maintain power and combat the internal enemy has been preserved until the end. In the preamble to the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, it was thus found that the current SFRJ did not act as a state governed by law and that human rights were severely violated. In the SFRY, the Communist Party, which, according to all international political and professional criteria and the number of victims left by communism in its operations, was placed in the category of totalitarianism. Like national socialism and fascism. The European Parliament's resolution is particularly important for Slovenia, as our country has suffered under all three totalitarianisms. Slovenia was therefore part of the integration of the SFRY, which was falling apart and falling apart in bloody wars, characterised by mass war and post-war crimes, which could have occurred in the former system or regime mainly because the violation of human rights in order to achieve ideological objectives was something self-evident, politically justified and a way or means of maintaining the totalitarian regime. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that at the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II and at the 20th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide, it is now high time for Slovenian politics to finally unify and condemn all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The resolution, respected colleagues and colleagues, is nothing more than respect for basic civilisation standards, respect for victims and the memory of our tragic common past. However, I will explain more as the proposer of the point later in the debate when the views of the groups are concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u153	The motion for a resolution shall be held at its 9th session. Seven. 2015 discussed by the Committee on Justice. As the Committee did not adopt the chapters of the motion for a resolution after the discussion, the president of the Committee found that the motion for a resolution was closed at the working body meeting. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u154	Honourable President, representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleague and colleague! The Committee on Justice shall be held at its 9th session on 1. Seven. In 2015, the draft resolution on support for the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, submitted for consideration by the first-signed group of Members, Mr Jožet Tank. The Committee also took note of the following material, namely the motion for a resolution published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 29. 5. 2015, with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the report of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities of 1 January 2015. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Representative of the proposer, Mr Mag. Branko Grims presented the purpose and objectives of the motion for a resolution in a supplementary explanation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that this only highlights the views expressed in the opinion of the resolution proposal in 2009, with the exception of the part of the text currently tabled, which was no longer available. The specific comments referred to a more appropriate title, namely the declaration of support for the European Parliament resolution, the reference to the Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the obligation to publish in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments tabled to those comments followed. The representative of the Ministry of Justice, Ms State Secretary Tina Brecelj, stressed that the Government sees no reason to adopt and does not support the proposed resolution. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee, on behalf of the groups of Members, provided explanations and explanations on why the motion for a resolution is supported or not supported. Within the time limit set, the SDS Group tabled amendments to the preamble, to the title, to Chapter 1 and to the new Chapter 3. The Committee voted on the amendments and did not adopt them. The Committee then voted in accordance with Articles 126 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on all the chapters of the motion for a resolution and also did not adopt them. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it was also found on the Committee that the Committee’s consideration of the motion for a resolution supporting the European Parliament’s resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism on the home working body had been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u155	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u156	Dear President, Dear Fellows [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u157	I'm sorry, I made a mistake. Can I apologize? I should have given my word to the government first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u158	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u159	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the adoption of the proposed resolution, as there is no reason to amend the 2009 Decision of the Slovenian National Assembly of 22 October 2009 when the National Assembly, taking into account the specificities of Slovenian history, adopted the Declaration on the European Parliament Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism of 2 April 2009 and also published it in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Such a view that the motion for a resolution should not be adopted, as my predecessor has said, has also made this reference to the National Assembly, namely the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities on 30 June this year and the Committee on Justice on 1 July 2015. As it is said, the Government agrees with the position on non-support for the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u161	Now, indeed, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members is to be made. The text is by the Group of Members of the United Left and Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, another time. The European Parliament's resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism is one of the many documents by which they want the conservative forces in control of European institutions to impose a specific model for the interpretation of modern European and global history. In the SDS party, you are imposing on us a debate on our history and on the three so-called totalitarianism of the 20th century, this is about Nazism, fascism and communism, and of course it is only about demonizing the latter. In the United Left, we do not signify totalitarianism, not for former communist regimes, nor for fascist regimes. Not because they might not acknowledge the severe suffering of people who have been affected by fascism or regimes that have tried to build communism, but because it really gives an idealized image of Western parliamentary democracy or Euro-Atlantic integration. The sign of totalitarianism became highly popular in the first two decades after World War II, particularly among American ideologists who compared the darkest examples of communist and fascist practices with the ideals of Western parliamentary democracy for the purposes of propaganda war. It was a measure of the abstract ideal of individual freedom, which has the highest place among the political values in the West and which they wanted to compare with the often cruel reality in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. This comparison, of course, is not fair. Let us ask ourselves, whose interests led to the death of millions in the first world war, why hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese and Vietnamese had to die in the bombings, why hundreds of thousands of people were killed at the end of World War II in the Anglo - American attacks in Dresden and Japan with nuclear weapons. This was not of particular interest to Western ideologists of the Cold War. Serious historical and political research has therefore rejected the mark of totalitarianism as the ideological cover of the Cold War. The mark of totalitarianism must be rejected even more decisively today. The ideals of human rights, respect for human life and dignity, which the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism swears, i.e. every day in the misery of everyday life on the European periphery. The talk of human rights and humanity is at a moment when a troika with a financial terror on its knees gathers the entire Greek people and sadistically forces them to sign new treaties on inhumane belt tightening. The talk of human rights disintegrates as a fluke when thousands of migrants die, drowns and suffers at the borders of Europe's fortress. The talk of human rights and humanity at the moment disintegrates as an empty lump in the face of poverty, misery and unemployment, which has been suppressed by the working people of all the nations of Europe. The United Left rejects the empty and swollen historical generalizations with which the right hand wants to throw both fascism and communism into the same basket. We certainly do not agree to compare the number of victims of communist regimes with fascist regimes, as it would be very easy to include victims of the so-called examples of European democracies. Human lives, respected, are not statistics. We cannot agree to put the violent loss of human lives into numbers and use them as an argument in a grave generalisation that has a very clear political agenda. At the same time, we do not agree to the same general logic regarding the various historically existing communist regimes. Yugoslav self-government socialism was totally incompatible with Soviet or other types of communist regimes and represented a much more positive and human attempt to build a different socialist society. Efforts towards a different society, socialism has further acquired from the Paris Communion a general electoral right, social services and most of the civilisational achievements that today should be the highest appreciated but consistently eliminated by neoliberal doctrine. Emancipatory socialist projects have opened the prospect of spreading democracy to all areas of human life, including where unforgivable dyspotism reigns in so-called exemplary democracies — the workplace. In the United Left, we estimate that the re-imposed debate on the Resolution on European consciousness is totally unnecessary, both in terms of content and in terms of formality. We can already read in the Government's opinion that supporting the resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism would mean historical revisionism to try to reinterpret, change and fabricate our common history. We should not allow this to happen, but with disappointment we can find that it is slow, but it has been happening quietly all the time. Events in recent days require us to ask ourselves also about the first part of the resolution on the so-called European conscience. It is a matter of consciousness when the Eurogroup is trying to launch a coup against the left government in Greece, headed by the German finance minister. The word coup, respected, is not ours, but by one of the world's most respected economists, Paul Krugman, you will find it very difficult to accuse him of being radical or anything like that. It has become a radical Europe that has trampled democracy, which has trampled national sovereignty and which is pushing Greece to the level of protectorate. If we were to be honest and honest, we should ask ourselves whether today the European Union is not the one most suited to the totalitarian adjective. Of course, we will not support this proposal in the United Left Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u163	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u164	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! On 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism six years ago. With it, both the European Left and the Right have united, as they have been supported by the vast majority of European Members. Then we unanimously supported the resolution by all Slovenian MEPs, then by Miha Brejc, Lois Peterle, Romana Jordan Cizelj, Jelo Kacin, Aurelio Juri and Mojca Drčar Murko. In this resolution, the European Parliament strongly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by totalitarian and authoritarian regimes: fascism, Nazism and communism. Slovenia is the only country in Europe that has been oppressed by all three of the worst totalitarianisms of the 20th century, namely fascism, Nazism and communism. But communism is, unfortunately, the worst thing that's ever happened to us. And worst of all, the vast majority of the victims were tragically killed in the months following World War II. More than 600 hidden war graves have been recorded in Slovenia, where about 15,000 Slovenians have been buried. We haven't buried all these victims until today. I am pleased that the New Slovenia Act on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims has been passed, and we are confident that this will also help on the way to reconciliation. If we quote the esteemed former president of the SAZU, the late Dr. Jožet Trontl, who says: "Naziism and fascism will never be blamed for World War II, for the terrible woes caused by many nations, for the millions of victims who have fallen into conflict, were killed in camps or in interwar liquidations. But the fact is that the third totalitarian system, communism with new horrors, has entered into the war." End of quote. All three totalitarians are therefore worthy of conviction. One of the content of this European resolution is also the adoption by Members of the Council of 23 August to become the pan-European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of All Totalitarian and Authoritarian Regimes, which we support in New Slovenia by Christian Democrats. Maintaining the memory of these events and their relevant historical evaluation is certainly one of the important assurances that something like this will not happen again in the future. In this direction, it is also very important to raise in a spirit of democratic values, which also promotes critical thinking and enables the path of maturity to respect values and accept the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u165	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u166	Good afternoon. Well, we're where I was saying last week that we're going to come in and get sober, and especially that sobering thing that's called repeating the same thing. Today, what I'm going to say is basically going to be for the coalition, not for the proponents, because, in fact, the proponents know what they're doing as opposed to the coalition. Systematic repetition of the same things, that you're going crazy in the end. And more importantly, you end up believing what they're saying — like a broken record. One and the same. And above all, they are counting on one skill that they have very well crafted, and that is to count on Members to be replaced here slowly, because here is somehow constant, you know, to lose historical memory of how certain things have been accepted and dealt with in the National Assembly. Two years old, in the last bench that's been monitoring this from the beginning, at least one of them can just laugh at it because they're looking at it as a show, which is what's really going on here. Of course, everyone with their own perception. But what they suggested today is, in some ways, a coalition last week. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u167	Quiet, please, in the hall! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u168	somehow brought through the side door and legalized what Members with a majority in the previous National Assembly have in fact always rejected with several arguments. [[...]] If I tried to believe by the last week that the proponents of a decent burial were actually for an honest and all that they said and said, I actually believe even less today. Because if you've listened to them and you've raised your ears about what they said last week and today they're really encouraging things that are no longer worth mentioning in this House. In view of the document adopted by the European Parliament, it has indeed been accepted for some other purpose, not for this need, which the proposaler has today envisioned opening an ideological fight and has repeatedly warned and divided the Slovenians. Venomer. And that's the eternal problem. The problem is mainly because in the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia we repeat the same thing, but in the end someone gives in. And last week, the coalition broke down. She declined because she had placed in a worthy burial article 1 the reference to this same resolution, which she would vote on today and rejected, and put it in Article 1 last week and actually legalized it in some way, in order to carry out a decent burial or to carry out the law itself. These two don't go together. And all the debates that I will listen to very carefully today will, of course, be focused on how this act does not make sense to accept or is crazy twice to accept something that someone has already accepted and is binding on Slovenia. More. What is more important, everyone, but now indeed everyone, I believe that you have looked at the research that was done in the National Assembly around this document, where everything in Europe has really accepted this document. Nowhere. However, it has been dealt with in individual committees in individual countries. They did. But we are constantly following the well-known mantra that we know from this side, repeating the same thing. So that some Slovenians and Slovenes are already asking themselves, what is the problem in this resolution, and why we do not actually confirm it, but we will be able to do so. By the way, I'm not hot because of this resolution, far from it, but it's hot today on all sides. That is why I appeal to all Members and Members of the coalition, not the opposition, that you are at least silent and perform that task, and this is to reject the conclusion of this resolution and not to speak of the things that are being avenged on you, because, on the other hand, you accept this same declaration and refer to it as a basis for us to carry out decent burials in Slovenia. Which has nothing to do with it. I must say that the resolution itself was actually abused by the SDS for only one purpose. And that's so they can go through the chandeliers. This lustration, however, has often been taken into account when it comes to disqualifying individuals. Some of you will still feel it. But actually I think it's time, given that the document itself that was adopted in 2009, has actually led us to today's 2015 and that there's really no time to talk about things that we're not interested in right now and we've already won them long ago. We're interested in the future. More than that, because I'm going to listen to you very carefully.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u169	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Alexander Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings and greetings to all who accompany today's session! Allow me to present the position of the SMC Group. We regret that today's debate and all those we have witnessed in connection with the proposed act have already taken place at the Committee level. The challenging, insincere, inflaming debates on Slovenian half-time history are falling on barren soils and our citizens and citizens are not benefiting from anything, and the political body is moving away from the real everyday challenges. But we do not reject the motion for a resolution supporting the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism simply because of its unconstructiveness, but we base our decision on both formal, substantive and contextual arguments. The European Parliament represents a supranational institution of European political space of exceptional importance, which adopts both legislative and political acts as part of its work. Among the latter are a number of resolutions, including the resolution in question. All these adopted acts, regardless of what they are considered by individual European countries, parties or other social groups, have become part of the European political order and value field by adopting them in the European Parliament. And watch out! These resolutions express the will of the democratically-loved supranational representative body, and in no case express or express the sovereign will of the national parliaments, which draw their legitimacy and sovereignty from a completely different background. We therefore respect the political acts of the European Parliament, including the Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism in the SMC Group, and we oppose the introduction of innovative procedural practices which, on the proposal of one party option, would support the European Parliament's resolutions or any other non-state institution by adopting, confirming or expressing its own sovereign will. Such an approach is politically unacceptable and questionable. Moreover, based on a study carried out by the Research Section of the National Assembly, such an approach is incompatible with the other countries of the European Union, where parliamentary committees are merely familiar with European Parliament resolutions, and only in rare cases. In view of the latter, the adoption of the proposed act would not last place the resolution in question in a hierarchically higher position than the other resolutions of the European Parliament, in full absence of any priority criteria or criteria. We believe that this is inappropriate and harmful both for viewing this National Assembly and for the importance of the political acts adopted by our Brussels-Strasbourski colleagues. We must also remember that the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism in its own declaration was adopted in 2009, with a sound and balanced view of the principles of the treatment of past history in Slovenia. The adoption of this SDS proposal would show the existence of two different political acts relating to the same content, but they are defined differently. Of course, such hierarchical confusion cannot be supported. Our definition of the proposed act of the SDS Group is not merely procedural, it is also substantive. We are surprised that the motioner on the one hand strongly advocates the need for parliamentary support to the European Parliament's Resolution, which he will never forget to accompany with his own historical interpretation discourse. On the other hand, it forgets that it is precisely this resolution in points B and C that strongly opposes it. These points state that no political party or body has the exclusive right to explain history and that the official political explanations of historical facts should not be enforced by majority decisions in parliaments. We, too, undermine the principle that parliamentary forums are not a place for historic debates, so we leave this to those who are called upon to do so. In recent days, many of us have been told that as a central party, we avoid expressing our views on ideological issues and, as a result, on the relevant resolution of the European Parliament. But rejecting a position in the first kinds of ideological struggle does not mean being undecided. We have also shown this in past debates, but apparently the others have been over-heard of. We respect the European Parliament's resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism and, unlike those who read it restrictively, we believe in principle that the resolution does not open Pandora's box of historical revisionism. Our views of past history are clear, self-sustaining, and unwavering. The national liberation struggle during World War II was an honorable act that liberated the Nazi occupations of Slovenia and other nations, so we appreciate its values, respect the fundamental values of our common history. The Collaboration with the Conqueror has been a rejection and condemnation of a valuable act, so we will always join those who sincerely oppose the rehabilitation of domesticism or similar attempts to change history. Like auditing, we also oppose historical reductionism and reject the equation of Slovenian and Eastern European past history. The important social and cultural gains of the previous system are therefore appreciated and respected, while at the same time we strongly condemn the undemocratic and cruel actions of the former single-party system in the freedom and fundamental rights of individuals. But let's not forget! To this end, in its declaration, the National Assembly has already defined itself in 2009 and the question is once again why we are facing it over and over again. In all political abuses on the one hand and conspiracy theories on the other, we forget who the Resolutions on European consciousness and totalitarianism are intended for. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that this entity represents the victims of totalitarian regimes, those to which I must keep a respectful memory, those who remind us of mistakes that cannot be repeated. Because of them, the post-war beatings of unarmed prisoners of war and civilians cannot and must not be excused for the zeal of national liberation, because of which we cannot cooperate with the invader under any condition and must not apologize for the rebellion against revolutionary violence. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we have made it available to the victims and, for the sake of our common future, we have also exceeded this division by concrete actions. We hope that there will soon be some other political options. With the entire Calvary regarding the European Parliament's Resolution, however, we are even more disturbed by the context in which the proposed Act was addressed. The proposal's supposed sincere desire to contribute to the crossing of ideological divisions has not convinced us in the SMC Group. Most of their actions point in the opposite direction, the direction of sharpening the ideological struggle, which is used exclusively for political benefit and addressing its own electoral body. The proposaler's boundless desire for some kind of lustration, catharsis, which he could not carry out even when they had a parliamentary majority, is becoming stronger and louder, and its realization is already sought in the few days of every marriage proposal. The desire to rename postwar beatings into the so-called Slovenian genocide is becoming a constant of their ever-increasing discourse on the half-time history. In doing so, they do not take into account the fact that, by using internationally defined terms completely and improperly, they do not only show disrespect for those who have actually died in the tragedies of the crime of all crimes, but also do not in any way help to strengthen respect for the victims of cruel post-war beatings. More! When a bill was considered a few days ago in the National Assembly to ensure a decent burial for all victims of totalitarian violence, the motion for a resolution, despite the fact that the fifth to victims defends themselves as a fundamental civilisation principle, abstained from voting that we do not need to bury the victims of the law. On the other hand, the applicant considers that by adopting the proposal for the act under consideration, we would change both our consciousness and perhaps our history. Let us not forget that the act was tabled in accordance with the principle of copying-sticks, with exactly the same business shortcomings, which were pointed out by the expert services of the National Assembly in 2009 at their first attempt. Since in the SMC Group we believe that the proposed act is formally inadequate and inappropriate because we believe that it is contrary to the content of both the European Parliament resolution and the 2009 declaration of the National Assembly and that we will simply not sit on the proposaler's lustration anti-totalitarian spectacle, we have not supported the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u171	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u172	Good-bye to all of you! It's about values. And the issue of values, ladies and gentlemen, is a fundamental development issue in Slovenia. What has been said by the Government, if you have read its very sad explanation at all, why it rejects the expression of support for the European resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, was that it did not see any new facts. Since she's obviously walking through her eyes, let me help her. The new fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that in recent measurements of the economic performance, prosperity and purchasing power of the ordinary man, the inhabitants of Slovenia have surpassed the countries that we saw with two or three times the advantage of Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania and so on at the time of independence. When we gained independence, we were two to three times better under all economic criteria than those countries. But these were countries that could cut across their past in all those parts that they were burdened with, that they could clear up themselves and that truly accepted European values, and Slovenia did not. As much as this resolution shows, because it is a matter of fundamental values, you will not experience it blindly anywhere. We are confident in this European specialty. And that is the reason for the situation in our development. And we're talking about development today. What we are talking about today is the fundamental development issue of Slovenia. Look, we're the only country where the entire National Assembly gathers in Paradise in the Cologne under the Red Flag and the image of Che Guevara, we're going to talk about it a little later, and paradise and shouts that Europe is a gang of thieves. Under the red flag in a hall where there is no single, single state flag, Slovenian flag. There is no country in Europe where you will find anything comparable to that. She's not here. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are failing, and that is why Poland is ahead of us and we are the only country in Europe where we are celebrating genocide, crime at the symbolic level. Right here, ladies and gentlemen, there is a monument to the revolution, not a monument to independence, not a monument to liberation, stands a monument to revolution. But the revolution, ladies and gentlemen, is a crime. What is a revolution if we remove high-end words, and, as Murphy says, for high-end words are always the lowest-down interests. The revolution is nothing more than an organized murder, genocide and state robbery, whereby one self-proclaimed elite uses weapons, murder, crime replaces the slain previous real elite that has been formed over a long period of years. It's actually a revolution. And whoever spends years around with a red star and celebrates the revolution, ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia, should be aware of the glory of this. Celebrates that entire chariot full of babies and small children left by the partisans long after the end of World War II there in Ormož in the sun, that the children suffered and died of thirst and hunger in the hot sun. And they used all the weapons to protect people who had heart problems from helping these children. We celebrate this, ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia! That's what we're celebrating! Whoever celebrates this, who celebrates the red star, who celebrates the revolution, celebrates the living teenage girls built in the grave pit. What's here to celebrate, ladies and gentlemen? If we truly had European values, if we had accepted them, we would have expressed regret and made all the confessions to the victims, not to the criminals. That's our problem. And believe that in every country where this is done – in Europe, as far as this is concerned, we are really the only one in this way – the following will happen. Every foreign investor I look at escapes, as far as his legs carry him, because he does not believe that his values, his interests here are really as protected as they should be. Anyone looking for a business partner, and he sees it, of course, goes looking for a partner elsewhere. Don't think Europe can't see that. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we're getting ahead of ourselves, Poland, and these are the new facts that this government doesn't want to see because it's unsuccessful to love God help. All we can do is fight with Alenka Bratuzek, who was more — unsuccessful to understand each other. And these are the new facts that we're talking about, because, as political science teaches, every policy is a matter of values. And the starting point of those values that we put at the forefront, those units that we truly accept, in harmony with, are those in the modern world who determine who is more successful than others. Those who make a country competitive or uncompetitive, those who do it in search of business and political and all other partners interesting, kind, in the eyes of those who seek it abroad. But if that's not the case, they're going somewhere else. Investors invest their money elsewhere, only in Slovenia. Worse. Those entrepreneurs and capable people who can enrich and relax Slovenia's development potential are leaving abroad for this reason. Since we do not have a European functioning justice, we have been reminded of for many years by the European Community with fewer and fewer diplomatic expressions. He always says, "we're getting a little better, now give it to me." What's said at home, "you haven't done anything, let's take a look." It's a translation from diplomacy to common language. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is really what this is about. When we open this question, it's always said, "Yes, but this is a matter of lustration." Come on, who's using that term? Those who, in fact, are actively mirroring themselves all the time. It's not about lustration, ladies and gentlemen. It's about values, it's about development, but we're going to set up a system that will be more favourable to entrepreneurs than to neighbouring Austria, which will attract foreign investors, which will encourage domestic entrepreneurs to stay home and create jobs here. Because it is the only fundamental permanent source of the welfare of a country. That's really what this is about. Who does lustration in Slovenia? Exactly you — the current ruling coalition — and those who help you from the opposition under B, as it was sometimes called. Two of them mentioned the lustration behind this counter today. The first to introduce that electoral law to prevent the president of the most powerful opposition party from running at any time, and the second, the coalition is doing the same now. Why? Because you think, well, it failed for the first time, because the Constitutional Court has passed in between, and now we will change the legislation so that we will exclude the Constitutional Court from the proceedings that the next time a pig's guilt is committed to someone, as in this case it is reliable, not only to him but also to his family and to all those who have come to the elections a good year ago, so that they will not be able to fix it. Now it's working. Next time, if what you want is accepted, it won't work. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is that real lustration, but you're doing it and you're saying it with your finger. It's the oldest trick of communism and socialists. What you're doing alone, point your finger at the other one so that no one will notice that you have your hand in his pocket. It's the oldest trick that was old, uh, already in the old Yugoslavia, they knew that. I mean, nothing's changed. You've adjusted some of the phrases a little bit. Otherwise, it's the same story. And why is that? Because in Slovenia some things cannot be said normally because people do not know them because they do not understand them. One of them has been mentioned here a few times today that it is a question of who is, I don't know, a winner and who is the loser. Ladies and gentlemen, the winners at the time of Slovenia's independence were here. All citizens and citizens. But the attacker was the one with the red star. With a red star, equipped planes have been throwing cluster bombs, which is a crime. With a red star, the tank was fired with a machine gun at the time of the truce on Austrian journalists and killed them at Brnik Airport. These are all crimes. But the worst crimes are those that occurred after the end of World War II, at a time when there was peace when there should have been freedom. And these are crimes that don't get old. There's a lot of genocide in here. Why, though, is it so emphasized that one of them fought against the other? So you wouldn't happen to notice that there are two faces of exactly the same evil. Let me explain to you a little bit about what our problem is and why it so blinds itself when the issue of values opens, and why it can be that this whole state summit is under the red flags and the red star Che Guevaro, and in a hall without one Slovenian country at a national event. That's what you have to say. Which, believe me, we are the only ones not only in Europe, but probably in the world. What really makes this the most caricature and shows in the right light at the same time, because in Slovenia it only goes this way, is the thing that I read the last time: "We are socialists, we are enemies of the capitalist economic system and we reject the exploitation of the weak and we will destroy this system under all conditions." The last time I read this to my colleagues in the United Left is when I read it to them, which they beat with their fists on the table, "we stand for every word." Yeah, you know what's awkward? These are the words of Adolf Hitler, for he was also a socialist. And what is the whole story and tragedy of Slovenia that drags on to this day and that makes us unable to talk normally about the issue of values in a European way that speaks of all crimes, that they are crimes, and all measures with the same vat and rejects all totalitarianism? Why can't you do that? Because you just don't get it. Because kids in schools don't learn that today. What was the tragedy of World War II, and why was it such a tragedy? Let's take a look at a little more starting point. Each one of us is probably going to vomit when he sees this symbol, the hooky cross, the swastika. But did you know that this symbol was used long before Nazi Germany came into existence? Do you know where it was used after it came from the Far East? In Russia, ladies and gentlemen, after the October Revolution. And in fact, the hooky cross means socialism, meaning the socialist, the two who cooperate with each other – the SS and beat everything in front of each other. That's what theory used to say back then. If anyone doesn't believe, ladies and gentlemen, this is the Red Army book, the winning ones, you'd say, in World War II. And you won't believe the sign it's on. On the pecky cross. Did you know that? You didn't know. Because that's not what kids teach in schools. Because they were both socialists. If you don't know that, let's say look here, a sickle and a hammer, another such beautiful symbol. This is from Germany’s Nazi Germany, from the 1934 NSDAP, a beautiful sickle, and the hammer’s hooky cross. That's the problem we're facing. What was the tragedy of the Second World War that I was talking about, and what is the Slovenian tragedy? This. This cartoon says over a thousand words. Two socialists who joined the Hitler-Stalin Pact or Ribbentrop-Molotov into the Holy Law and were two years old, from 1939 to 1941, were the closest collaborators. Because of them, Europe has fallen apart like this, causing the entire eastern part to fall apart because it was attacked by the Soviets — nothing is said of us — and of course by the West by the Nazis. But these were national socialists, and these were international socialists. They were both socialists. Once we know this by heart and know what we are talking about when it comes to the issue of values, this task will be much easier. And that no one will think that Yugoslavia here or Slovenia is not present in such a very disgraceful place, let us look at another list. This is a list of the greatest criminals of the 20th century accused by the international community of genocide, as it says here. In the first two places you will find two socialists, called Mao Cetunga Stalin and Hitler only in third place. But then you'll also find Titus in seventh place, with 570,000 proven victims, some estimates say over a million. The number 570 is on the Rankovic report, which said that so many and so many people were killed. How these liquidations took place – for those who do not know why it is a tragedy for Slovenia, read it, and I can supply it to you, but it was published on the Internet, even on Facebook the last time one display, report, original, signed, printed, a partisan commander from the beginning of 1942, how they heroically killed a young mother and a four-year-old daughter. It says "Death of Fascism" to the people. And that comes with what's wrong. Here we can have a little more, who wants to enjoy the red color, a little bit more of these red colors of socialism, the greatest criminals. Then let's move on to Slovenia. And what was the problem in Slovenia? By 1942, no one had committed any rebellion against those who had committed crimes. That was the problem. Those who really resisted the Nazis when they invaded Yugoslavia were removed by themselves, but here it was established, you will not believe, an anti-imperialist front to fight England, France and America. This other part of the name may not be familiar to you, but it was taught to me in high school, in socialism, in Kranj. There was so much freedom back then that they taught us that. Today at no high school, as far as I know, they don't teach anymore. At least I don't know that. Today it is said that a liberation front was established at the time. Yeah, sure, no! It was a collaborative front to fight the socialists, the Nazis and then their closest allies, the Russian international socialists to fight the democratic world. And that's what we celebrate today as a holiday, isn't it? In case someone didn't know. That's the problem when we talk about values. Because it is the very foundation of values, from which many levers of power and many levers of power come. And this misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen, makes us so inefficient and makes us so unproductive and bad in a modern globalised world that we are overtaken by countries like Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and all those before whom we once knew as twice. This is a problem that we should unite once. That every crime is a crime. That there is nothing to be excused, neither with one, nor with the other, for the truth is different from what is always shown in our case. That's the problem. And once we put the end of World War II aside, what remains? The event after World War II. There was no war then, there was nothing left. But it was a crime. As many killed as are in Slovenia, they are not lying except in the fields of Pola Pota, in the fields of death anywhere in the world. Such a large number according to the number of inhabitants. Some talk about extradition, acquisitions, the processes of revolution. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, 600 caves in Slovenia are full of acquisitions, currents and handing over these revolutions. And it's a shame about Slovenia that it doesn't work out. And that can't be settled by law. It takes action. Actions based on sincere acceptance of European values. At the same time, actions that will enable the past to be properly and peteically regulated and, at the same time, enable and release faster development. For the monopolies that draw back from before exist even today, and choke, stifle our development. And the lack of values, this sincere acceptance of European values, is a developmental bar. Therefore, what we are talking about today is a fundamental development issue. And how much misunderstanding there is in this national assembly when it comes to these matters, and just for the end there is another picture of one problem. See, in this House there have been very frequent recent appearances of some with a picture of Che Guevara. I also mentioned Che Guevaro because the entire state leadership was sitting at a national celebration under the image of Che Guevara. Who was he, ladies and gentlemen? Do you know that? Ladies and gentlemen, Che Guevara has set up concentration camps for gays, if anyone does not know, for homosexuals and killed them himself. He killed about 2,000 children, and he's responsible for the deaths of about 17,000 people. He was also known for burning books, which is exactly what the Nazis in Germany were doing. He was known for speaking extremely abusively about black people, people of the African race, and he thought of them as less valuable, which by the way again was the characteristic of the Nazis, and he prohibited Western music. And with this man today, some young people are walking around. I mean, great. And a few other quotations to give you a sense of what is being celebrated with us, such as in this national assembly. "The revolutionary must become a cold killing machine motivated by pure hatred." Che Guevara. "I want to admit, I like killing. I loved killing." Che Guevara. Guilty of 17,000 out-of-court killings. And that's a celebration, isn't it? Che Guevara. 2,000 minors on his conscience. Another very interesting statement of his: "In order to establish socialism, rivers of blood must flow. The victory of socialism is also worth millions of atomic casualties." Then, if anyone doubts what I said before, let me say a literal translation, and let me be forgiven, he could use: 'The nigger is immature and he spends his money on stupidity and drink, while the European is organised and intelligent.' If that's not a racist statement, then I don't know what it is. And whoever jumps around with a guy like that, reads this, I'd rather not read it. This is published on the Internet on many websites, and I hope that something like this will never happen again. This is a symbolic level in this House, in this building. When we go out, we should unite at least to stand before Parliament a symbol of Slovenian independence, a monument to Slovenian independence, a monument to the victims, to all those who gave their lives for Slovenia alone, not a monument to crime and genocide. It is not a monument to those who are guilty of the death of an entire carriage of babies who have certainly done no harm to anyone and have let them suffer in the hot sun in Ormož. That's what's standing over there and weighing 20 tons, I guess. 20 tons of pure evil, ladies and gentlemen! By the way, did you know that this monument was made from the bells of the church, those who were illegally destroyed during the war and after World War II? That, ladies and gentlemen, is Slovenia. And strangers know that. And what all those who do not accept European values, by their own actions, point out, highlight these problems, all of this ends with Slovenia failing to exercise its political role, not its economic potential, not its development potential, as it could. And because of that, ladies and gentlemen, there is this new fact that this government doesn't want to see that we've been overtaken literally by all of us. And we're going along the path of Greece. This is the problem of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the issue of values is a fundamental development issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u173	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Tina Brecelj, distinguished Members of Parliament! Today we are talking again about supporting the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which we discussed in detail in the National Assembly six years ago. More specifically, on 22 October 2009, the National Assembly had already adopted a declaration of familiarity with the European Parliament's resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which is why I do not see any reason why we should decide again on the resolution. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that no new circumstances have occurred in these years, that the National Assembly should change its decision, since the decision at that time, namely on 22 October 2009, was legitimate and well-thought. The fact is that the European Parliament has adopted many resolutions and we do not reaffirm them in the European Union Member States in national parliaments. Does this mean that after the new adoption of all European Parliament resolutions we will once again adopt? Just for illustration. At its last meeting in Strasbourg, the European Parliament adopted more than 40 resolutions. Does the proposer feel that we should accept them in this national assembly? I would also like to point out that the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired and Members of the Desus Group respect the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. In the Desus Group, we have decided not to discuss this item on the agenda. We have come to know and respect the resolution already in 2009. However, we do not want to participate in unnecessary ideological debates, which we will certainly witness in the coming hours. I suggest that we think more about why we have devoted only forty minutes to the Copyright and Related Rights Act today, and we will be discussing this resolution for four hours and forty-five minutes, regardless of the fact that we have already completed the procedure on the working body. For further comparison, let me just say that we have devoted five hours and twenty-five minutes of debate to the Fiscal Rule Act and the State Property Management Strategy is expanding for hours and fifty minutes of debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u175	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yes, indeed, at such an important meeting of the National Assembly that we have had this week, with such important decisions that we have made, we are still devoting the last four hours of the resolution act that we have drawn up and adopted in 2009. And some argue that if we don't accept this, we will be economically and I don't know how far behind we are. Interesting. But there is something to be said about this resolution. The European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism is not legally binding. This document can be understood as a recommendation on how countries should face the past. This document, I am talking about the resolution, has been drafted by the European Members and adopted by the European Parliament by a simple majority and, indeed, by the votes of all Slovenian Members and Members. Slovenian MEPs from the then Alde Group, who participated in the preparation of this document in their group, said that this resolution was essentially a gift to those representatives of conservative and nationalist parties coming from the republics of the former Soviet Union and the countries of the former Eastern bloc and were in various forms under Soviet occupation. This is one of the most compromise documents of the European Parliament, with which Parliamentarians wanted to satisfy very different political interests. However, this legally non-binding act was already dealt with by the National Assembly in 2009, adopted a declaration, and we also received a briefing on the content of this resolution. In this declaration, because of the historical facts that Jani had previously stated, I quote: "Because, in accordance with the resolution, no political authority or political party has the exclusive right to interpret history and because official political explanations of historical facts should not be imposed by majority decisions in parliaments, the National Assembly underlines that it respects the differences and emphasis expressed by individual parties, parliamentary groups and Members and Members of Parliament on the assessment of past history. In particular, it points out that the National Assembly, in view of the fact that history would not be evaluated by a party and politics, has already ordered and adopted in 1995 a scientific report from a group of twelve historians, the key features of Slovenian policy in the years 1929– 1955 as a contribution to the objectivisation of this time. The National Assembly takes note of the resolution's respect for all victims of totalitarian regimes, while stressing that in its operation since 1990 the Republic of Slovenia has already done much to correct the injustices committed to citizens and citizens of Slovenia between 1945 and 1990. In particular, by adopting regulations that allowed the correction of the injustices to political prisoners, the conviction of post-war beatings, the detection and regulation of hidden graves, unlawfully murdered persons, the return of post-war injustices and the confiscation of property and many other acts. In doing so, she points out that it was easier to do so because its transition to a democratic political system of parliamentary democracy was established by the majority will of citizens and citizens on the legal path and without the necessity of violent change, which was possible since even within a single partnership system there has been a gradual post-war period, and especially in the 1980s and 1990s democratic changes that have made this possible. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will do its utmost to develop and establish the Republic of Slovenia as a democratic, legal and social state in which special care will be devoted to the protection of human rights and freedoms, and strives to ensure that tragic acts and divisions between the Second World War and the Single Party socialist system after it and their consequences are remembered as historical facts that should not cause new divisions of opposition and hatred." End of quote. I'm sorry he was a little longer, but that's the facts. The proposers of this point do not agree with such a declaration. I am interested, however, in the respect of what is so controversial in the record of the declaration, which was, in fact, adopted by the general majority at that time by Parliament. Is it disputed that the declaration expresses respect for all victims of totalitarian regimes? Is it disputed that we want democratic development and the enforcement of the rule of law and the social state respected? Is it possible that special care is devoted to the protection of human rights and freedoms? Or is it disputed that tragic acts and divisions between World War II and the one party socialist system after it and their consequences are remembered as historical facts that should not cause new divisions, new opposition and new hatreds? Is all this contentious, as stated in this declaration? In preparing the declaration, we have also obtained an overview of how the members of the European Union responded to this resolution and how they dealt with it in the national parliaments. In most cases, as they normally do with all these resolutions which are not legally binding. Even those countries for which this resolution was adopted in the European Parliament did not accept it, but they only came to know it. As a rule by committee, but less often in plenary sessions. Since we have recently had the 70th anniversary of liberation and victory over nazifascism, instead of the objective image of World War II and the partisan movement in Slovenia, the aspirations of the partisan struggle and the national liberation struggle are once again strengthened, especially as a struggle for communist power, not as a struggle to liberate from the invaders. While the involvement of domestic movements and armed information with the occupying forces is first and foremost intended to be an effort to maintain the current social order, although we know that such cooperation with the occupation authority at international level is referred to as an undisputedly declared form of cooperation with the occupying party. Representatives of the Association of United Fighters for the values of NOB were, if you remember, on the anniversary of the landing in Normandy. They were there, you won't believe it, as representatives of the Allied Army, who defeated Nazism. No resolution and no politicisation can change this historical fact. At the 70th anniversary of liberation, we are again talking about reconciliation in this House. The fair ceremony was already held on 8 July 1990 by the then President of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan and the Ljubljana Archbishop and Metropolitan Dr. Aloysij Šuštar. They set an example for me of ethical and moral conduct. Regrettably, some parties, unfortunately, do not recognise right-wing political factions. Also so that they can start an ideological debate every so long, mainly by distorting Slovenia's past history. However, efforts for reconciliation and correct reconciliation are seen as an opportunity for a political conviction of the guerrilla movement as a whole and not just its individual violent, legally unacceptable and today's value criteria for criminal acts. Secondly, unfortunately, the unfinished upright action took place here in this Parliament, if you will recall, in the so-called Colonel's Commission. An investigative commission was established on post-war mass killings, although it can be said that its establishment was justified, and later in its work it proved that its methodological work was not fully carried out at the time. Nevertheless, it has to be acknowledged that much documentation has been collected, and many opinions from historians and witnesses who have come to the hearing have been gathered. Unfortunately, this document has not been adopted and there is also a great gap in this respect, and in particular the possibility that we should return again and again to the assessment that the Slovenian authorities have not adopted a specific document on the conviction of extrajudicial beatings. Thirdly, in 1997 a commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was established to implement the law on the correction of injustices. We believe that the correction of injustices is necessary, but this must be done clearly and impartially. Unfortunately, in the past, we have heard that it is this Commission that has, as a rule, accepted all requests. At that point, we wonder if a child born could barely be a dissident. Is it possible for anyone who has been convicted of ordinary crime by a politically intensified judgment to be the victim of the system? However, the Slovenian compensation company directly implemented, without any supervision, all of these conclusions of the commissions, which SDH is doing today. Is that right or is that right? And the fourth time. You know we have the National Affairs Institute. Result – a big question. Social Democrats condemned post-war extrajudicial killings in 1995 in Slovenj Gradc at a party congress. We actively and constructively participated in the legislation on the correction of injustices, as well as the regulation of graves. We do not have any doubts about the proper burials and graves of all victims, either individually or collectively, or about the tombs or the remains being arranged. It would be correct, however, to examine honestly and objectively and to record who the victims were and how their deaths occurred. For also on the side of the Allies and the partisan armies and their sympathizers and fellow workers were the sacrifices made by the invaders' fellow workers, so-called collaborators. Because of the collaborators and their participation in the liberation fight against the invaders, many have been shot or tortured in the prisons of death. Many relatives of these victims do not know where to worship or do so in memory. Unfortunately, these victims were on both sides. Not only military personnel, but also civilian personnel. Sorry! However, we cannot change this today, respectable and respected, but we can remind ourselves that we simply do not want these horrors anymore, not in Slovenia or elsewhere in the world. We have already taken note of this resolution in 2009, and we have adopted, as I have already said, and have also read one quote, a declaration. We see the reintroduction of this resolution, do not resent my colleagues from the right, as political blackmail and recycling of ideological topics where there is nothing to do with legal acts, except that there are always conditions for circumstances that unfortunately cannot occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u177	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. First of all, we are going to the general debate of Members and Members on the motion for a resolution. The first is Ms Eva Irgle, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have now heard the views of all the parliamentary groups, and I must say that they do not change in any way from what we heard on the Committee on Justice and the day before on the Commission on Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities. Even more. In some debates or in some positions, even a handful of more hate speech or animosity to the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism may have been detected. But first, let me explain why we decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to put the European Parliament's resolution back in the National Assembly. Not for the reasons listed here by members of the coalition, not for these reasons. Not at all for the reasons of lustration, the lustration elements. But I'll talk about it later. However, we have re- tabled this resolution in the National Assembly because we believe that at the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II and at the 20th anniversary of the genocide in Srebrenica, it is now a time for us to make this unique but especially mature, truly mature step, a civilizational step that we all condemn together all three totalitarianisms and authoritarian regimes that have gravely violated human rights and fundamental freedoms. And it is Slovenia that is the country where we have suffered under all three totalitarianisms under fascism under national socialism and communism, so it would be right to look ourselves in the eye once and honestly say: why not take this step, why not support the European Parliament resolution, which, by the way, was supported by all Slovenian MEPs in the European Parliament. But they did so at the time, especially those on the left, because they were closely monitored by the European public. And, of course, it would be rather strange to oppose such a resolution, which has one purpose: to confirm basic civilisation standards. We'd be looking at them funny. But when these people came home, one of the MEPs at the time who voted in favour of this resolution then said in a safe environment at home, with the support of the majority media, that this resolution had usually collapsed. So much for integrity, so much for the consciousness you're talking about. The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled a resolution solely with a view to finally unifying Slovenian policy on these issues. It is true that for the first time, we have tabled a resolution of the European Parliament in the National Assembly in October 2009. This is about, I think, six months, six months after the resolution was adopted in the European Parliament. I must admit that then, and even today, perhaps even more today, I was naively expecting that the moment was ripe enough for the resolution to receive support. But she's not. The resolution did not receive support; the coalition decided to vote against it. More. Instead of this resolution, it has in some way planted a declaration, but I must say, it introduces a very selective approach to condemning totalitarianism. And what is most crucial is not the condemnation of totalitarianism in the declaration, which is exactly the opposite of what the European Parliament resolution has in mind. That is why I say that this declaration has simply been framed, as it has never been before when it comes to such topics. Instead of saying again, I'm going to say, look into your eyes and finally say, if a crime was committed, then you have to condemn it. And if all this was happening in a former common country, then it must be condemned. Later we may go further into details of what communism was like and that it was absolutely also in Slovenia or in the former Yugoslavia totalitarian. For the last time, at the presentation of the Group's position on the post-war sea, I said that the country must be able to singlely condemn the painful historical experience. That we must, as mature politicians, especially those who are new to this national assembly, where you are truly expected to have another view of certain things, and in particular those who are common civilisations, that you will know whether this is a standard that should be common to all of us, representing European values, and some other that represents civil values, that you will do differently than your predecessors did. But you don't do anything different. But that's even worse because you're selling for something you're not. You have come to this Parliament with thesis of higher ethical standards, including respect for human rights, respect for human dignity and respect for or respect for basic civilisation standards. You've come to the National Assembly under this thesis. Today, you will deny yourself, you will vote against yourself, against these own issues you have in the European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. In short, the Slovenian state, in particular all of us 90 Members sitting here, should already be able to condemn the communist regime and the post-war revolution. The Communist regime and the post-war revolution. As the European Parliament has done, as has already been said, with all Slovenian MEPs. And this should be condemned by all representatives of the people under certain constitutional powers. This is under any formal act. And the resolution of the European Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, seems to be the most convenient for such a thing and is in no way disputed. She's not in any dispute. In the European Parliament, the representatives of Alda voted for it, if I am not mistaken, the Modern Centre Party is on their side in the European Parliament. There is another party who will vote against this resolution today. And as far as I know, there was even a very bitter confirmation of this resolution in Alde. But today you're against, you'll probably have to explain something to someone on the European floor. But why not support the European Parliament resolution unitedly? Why? Because of the fact that Slovenian politics is, in some ways, seen today, not only today, but this is the symptomatic behaviour of politicians in Slovenia, that the right hand condemns all totalitarian regimes and also says that it is necessary to bury all the dead, regardless of which side life belonged to. Left or most politicians on the left, and I don't mean it, but that's what your words say today because of the advocate, and probably in the debate below, in many debates before, and condemns fascism and Nazism, which of course is right, but when we talk about communism, there is no judgment. There's no conviction. And when we talk about victims of communism, they usually just relativize. But respected colleagues and colleagues, crimes against humanity, human rights violations cannot be distinguished from what totalitarianism has been committed. The conviction must be clear and must and not in any way discriminatory. But the absence of such a conviction can only mean one thing: that means that you care about human rights in fact, although it is true, that they speak their words and do something else. But this absence of conviction can only mean quietly approving crimes and human rights violations, which is the most dangerous circumstance. This is true, the most dangerous circumstance — the sociologists say — to repeat any form of totalitarianism. If you don't condemn it at the right time, then he'll come back like a boomerang. And, of course, it didn't take long to wait for some cases. They didn't happen that long ago, 20 years ago in Srebrenica. The fact is, therefore, that the National Assembly has never before been able to condemn all three totalitarianisms in a uniform manner with a formal act. And you can refer to the declarations that were adopted here, and I don't know what laws, but I don't know what. This does not mean that you do not support such a resolution. He can't take it easy. It's just a matter of being honest about whether you think and feel it's right to condemn a crime or simply protecting someone and the system. Why, you'll be able to answer yourself. But the privileges of many can also tell this story, not yours, I'm not talking about you now, but about the system that we look at more widely. That's why there's never a conviction for these crimes. And you can't do that with a declaration. We therefore propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the National Assembly support the European Parliament's efforts to condemn all three totalitarianisms. I personally believed that with a different composition it would be possible to achieve this, that this mature step had taken, that we would all do it together, and I was wrong. But maybe in the future we'll have another chance to fix this all together. Now allow me, given that there has been almost no speech, except by some individuals so far on the content of the resolution itself, to read those key points of the resolution that are not supported by the coalition parties and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the United Left. Why do Members of the European Parliament think that a resolution should have been adopted? Because it was accepted and accepted by your political friends, the passengers from the customers you belong to, we also belong at the European level. In short, Members of the European Parliament believe that a resolution has to be adopted because no political body or political party has the exclusive right to explain history and because these authorities and parties cannot claim to be objective. That's what you're opposed to. While you say that politics cannot and must not explain history, you simply oppose it. Thank you, Mr. Battelli. So you are opposed to this by the members of the coalition. If anyone has any answers to this, then I'd like you to give it to me from here on out, but I doubt it. Come in. Since the central objective of the European integration process is to ensure that fundamental rights and the principles of the rule of law are respected. You're against it. I know why you're against it. Because this is seen at different levels of action, and especially in the judiciary, because we have a problem with the rule of law and the rule of law. But you're against it. Next. Because it is necessary to preserve the memory of Europe's tragic past in order to honor the victims, condemn the perpetrators and lay the foundations for reconciliation based on truth and memories. You're against it. You're probably upset about the conviction of the perps, maybe. Or that reconciliation can begin or can be reached only if it is based on truth and memory. And not in a single story that's been in public for years and years. Because other things weren't supposed to talk because we were living in a one-party system. That's a fact. And if the one-party system, where the one party was the same party, which, of course, controlled everything just to maintain its own power and privileges, is just because, of course, it was probably a non-democratic system, it was probably a totalitarian system. Totalitarian system. And then somehow we came into a democratic system, but a more virtually democratic system. I'm sorry. That's obvious today. It's a virtual democracy, it's called. We really came from a one-party, one-party system in a multi-party system, but that was almost everything. We even have a very well-developed party life, there is a new customer every year, this may even be welcomed at some point, but most often not because it causes problems and problems, and that is why we are in the economic sense where we are. We are where we are because most left-wing politicians are dealing exclusively with themselves or with the mandate of Janez Janša. Next. Because in totalitarian and authoritarian regimes of the 20th century, Europe has been exiled, imprisoned, tortured and killed to millions of victims — you disagree. Perhaps because you believe that Europe has its own history and its own value system, on the other hand, Slovenia obviously has its own history and its truly unique value system. But I'm talking about politicians, not people. You already know what a fair and fair value system is, but I am talking about politics. And you're going to have to take a little look at yourself in that sense. Come in. Because in totalitarian and authoritarian regimes of the 20th century, in Europe, millions of victims were exiled, imprisoned, tortured and killed. Because Nazism was the main historical experience of Western Europe and because they experienced both communism and Nazism in Central and Eastern European countries. Because there is a need to promote understanding for the dual dictatorial legacy of these countries. If I guess what's bothering you in this sentence, maybe I'll even win because you're opposed to it. And if I were to guess, then I'd say you can't understand the dual dictatorial legacy of these countries. But this is your basic problem, this is the essence that comes from you, this is a key problem, so you do not support this resolution because you fail to recognise some fundamental facts of history. Because you fail to admit it, because generations have failed to recognize this, or political generation, of the political generation. People know a lot of things, they say a lot about politics, but of course it's a little different here. Do you not agree that Nazism was the main historical experience of Western Europe?Oh, my God! What exactly would you like it to say in this resolution? Come in. Because Europe will not be united unless it is able to form a unified view of its history, if it does not recognise Nazism, Stalinism and the fascist and communist regimes as common heritage and if it does not engage in fair and in-depth discussions on their crimes in the previous century. You're opposed to that, too. On the Committee or on the Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we held a debate on this resolution and it was very interesting that everyone in a row argued that they did not support these resolutions, and the Government was very strong in its arguments why the resolution could not be supported, but when I asked them directly how they would deal with this resolution in Europe, the silence was also on the government side. Because there's a different situation because you're being accompanied by different people. Because you are accompanied there by people who are, say, signatories to the Prague Declaration. Perhaps, or perhaps a number of people have not heard of this statement at all. And that's the problem. Therefore, the resolution in point K clearly states that an in-depth debate should be held on the tragic events that have taken place in Europe, that it takes a common effort and a common struggle for all of us to resist totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. And you don't want an in-depth debate. I am, frankly, tired of listening to the same excuses and arguments that we need to talk about the future, what to say about the past all the time. Nobody talks about the past all the time. We only point out the key things that weren't done when it was time, and now they're coming back to us as boomerang, which is perfectly normal. If you don't clear things up, you don't explain them, they'll come back someday. And then it's too late. This is happening to us now, and it will be to a greater extent in the future. I, too, believe that we are all better and better off in this country, that young people get a job, that young people have a chance, because they are educated to create and show this knowledge somewhere. But, unfortunately, here I will say, also because we did not do things when the time was right, I also have such problems in the economic and economic sphere today. We can look wider, and we will see that the Eastern European countries that have come out of communism have done a kind or a different kind of lustration, and it will not happen that you will see in the streets, in some places yet, but most of the time, the statues of the butchers of the nation. We have such statues and honor them and honor them still. That's the problem. This consciousness, which should be different, should be truly European. We have all decided together to be part of the European nations. And it would be good to respect this not only for citizens and citizens, because they do it, but also for politicians or for politicians first, because we are the ones who set the example, we should be examples to people on such issues. Come in. Because from the point of view of the victims, it doesn't matter which regime deprived them of freedom, torture or murder for any reason. You don't support that either. And I don't need any argument here, because the sentence itself says everything. In particular, all the victims who have experienced this terror say so. And this says more than 600 hidden seas in Slovenia, when Slovenia is actually deceived by the mortal remains of people. Come in. Why has the European Parliament adopted this resolution? To show respect for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe and to all those who have fought against tyranny and oppression. You don't support this. You do not support the fight against tyranny and oppression. We are talking about refugees who are a major problem, and this issue will have to be settled, but then we must not support the worship of people who have fought tyranny and oppression. But this is to be honest, to worship, not by being ideologically labeled at the same time. But honestly, from the heart. Come in. The resolution therefore renews its commitment to a peaceful and successful Europe. It's a phrase that Dr. Brglez likes to say in his speeches. The resolution therefore renews its commitment to a peaceful and successful Europe based on values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. This is a resolution you do not support. The resolution points out that recent crimes against humanity and genocide in Europe took place in July 1995 and that the fight against undemocratic, xenophobic, authoritarian or totalitarian ideas and aspirations requires constant vigilance. Especially should we remember the last two words: keeping awake. Why? So that certain things don't happen again. Therefore, there is a need for constant vigilance. And if there is a need for constant vigilance, it is likely that this should also be discussed in Parliament. But you keep moving away from this debate, you don't care, it's irrelevant to you, which is deplorable. Despising to all those who have nevertheless experienced the suffering of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The resolution emphasises that in order to strengthen the European awareness of the crimes committed by totalitarian and non-democratic regimes, it is necessary to support documentation and testimony about the restless European past, since there can be no reconciliation without memory. This means that, if not the other, we must discuss this in depth and, in particular, open all archives, but not close them, as we did last year with the archival material law, fully open them and give historians, publicists, journalists, all those who deal with this half-time history to do their work precisely, in the faith that they will find the truth. This is crucial — in the faith that they will find the truth. They can only look for it by having all the resources, not only some that they had so far, not only those that Mr Pirjevec and Mr Repe may deal with, but also some other sources that have been hidden somewhere so far, and are still hidden today because you have simply closed the archive. Why did you lock him up, maybe later on. Come in. The resolution regrets that 20 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe in some Member States still unduly restricts access to documents – this is what I said earlier – which are important for individuals or necessary for scientific research. It calls on all Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of secret political police. That's about 20% of the archives we have left. We've destroyed 80% of the archive material. Who gave the instruction, a mandatory instruction for this destruction of the archival material? That's what it says, but the D.A. won't move, even though I filed an indictment myself against the D.A. and the police regarding the cultural genocide that took place when 80% of the archival material was destroyed. In some parts of the archive even more, even 95%. And here I can make a quick comparison. In Germany, for example, when it became known that they were destroying the archival material of the secret political police, says Stasia, more than 100,000 people gathered on the streets immediately. You know why? To prevent this destruction, because it is the history of the nation and the cultural genocide because people have the right to know what has happened in some time. And if these were crimes, they should be understood on the basis of archival material. And you know how many archival materials were destroyed in Germany? 5 %. The secret political police. And that's not all. That 5% today, known as Gauck's Institute, are doing reconstruction of these pieces of archival material. So, literally, the pieces stick together, these 5%. Because they are aware of how vital this is to the nation. Not just for the people. Even wider, for all of us, for all of Europe. But with us, everything is irrelevant, everything without connection. But there's only one reason. Because people have to be protected. And the system that did all this has to be protected, because many are still powered by this very criminal system. That's the key problem. The resolution strongly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. However, the victims of these crimes and their family members are reminded of their compassion, understanding and recognition for their tremors. There's probably nothing else to add to that. However, for the end of this introductory work as a proposal, perhaps there is only one thing I would like to remind you of. I have pointed out earlier the words in the resolution under point 2, which speak of commitment to a peaceful and successful Europe, Dr Brglez, the President of the National Assembly has already had quite a few speeches on the subject of crimes against humanity and human rights violations in this National Assembly. But these were speeches intended exclusively for crimes that occurred on foreign soil. But there will be no mistake, Mr President, thank God that you had these talks, so you had them on the day of the memory of Srebrenica, a speech on the day of the Holocaust, at our initiative then you spoke to this national assembly in memory of the Armenian genocide. We are grateful that you have accepted our initiative and spoken here. You spoke on the Day of Remembrance of All Totalitarian and Authoritarian Regimes – also at our initiative. And here's all the recognition you've made because you've taken one important step that other presidents of the National Assembly have failed. That was the first time on August 23rd, the day that this resolution set for the day of the remembrance of the victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, we spoke in the National Assembly. You may also have mentioned in these speeches an event that occurred in Slovenian history, in the sea after 1945, but we have not heard the verdict, a clear conviction, is said to condemn the communist regime, and we have not heard the condemnation of the post-war revolution. In particular, this National Assembly never bowed to the victims of the Slovenian Sea for a minute of silence. However, there is something else that needs to be highlighted. In all the speeches before us, the President of the National Assembly, in particular the crimes committed against humanity abroad, referred exactly to the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. He referred to a resolution, which is a Modern Centre Party, not to mention others, because it is irrelevant, it is more important that the Party of the Modern Centre, which is the largest, knows this, even though Dr Brglez belongs to it, does not support it. However, Dr. Brglez wrote in one of the speeches that we need to pay particular attention to all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. It means behavior and action. This, most likely, Mr President, does not mean that we are scrupulously resisting to support the resolution of the European Parliament or, as one of your Members said at the Human Rights Commission meeting, that it simply does not support the resolution as such, but also does not support the content of the resolution. How can you not support the content of such a resolution? The awareness that something terrible has happened is very strong when we talk about crimes that have occurred abroad. But when we talk about the crimes that happened in our country, on Slovenian soil, after World War II, then consciousness is virtually null and void, it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u179	Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare for Mr Marko Ferlug and Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u180	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I have supported this resolution once before, so I have no problem supporting it for the second time because I agree with its content. But I would remind us of the responsibility of the Members for every word we have spoken that we have done with it. I regret what I saw today when I drove past the German embassy, when it was wrong, when someone threw paint at it, because it was also in some way an attack on the country. I think that some in this House have also been helped by the accusations of a Europe that is ugly to Greece. The responsibility for each word in Parliament is very great. It is our speech that can encourage people to act in such a way or in a different way. Talking about today’s item can also be such that it will calm them down, encourage them, comfort them, if I say so, make them feel better or help them to clean up. But it can be one that causes additional anger, anger, resentment, attacks, or something else. I myself advocate that we speak about this subject with dignity, truthfulness, that we do not interfere with who is to blame, because I know that there is a young Member Matjaž German sitting there opposite, I think that he is about 35 years old there, that he is not guilty of all that because he was doing the communist system, although he is now sitting in a party that is somehow the successor of this policy. Also, our Member, who is 30 years old, is not to blame for all that is evident to the patriots. And even in one country, in one people they cannot be only good and honest, on the other hand only bad, traitors and so on. Unfortunately, the war, including the revolution waged by communism during the war, caused much distress, and unfortunately even more so after the war. I don't think it's appropriate for us to bother each other and blame each other for things that have happened in the past. But it's our fault if we don't condemn crimes. Then we're guilty if we're lying if we don't acknowledge what the facts are saying, if we throw it under the rug, if we don't want to hear it, we see it. At that time, we too are to some extent guilty, for in this way we contribute to a misinterpretation of history and, as a result, to wrong conduct in the present. And as this resolution says, no party, no body, no political party can own the right of exclusive right to history, so that we can speak or decide on historical facts in our own way, and there is certainly a need for a review of recorded history in Slovenia. As I have pointed out several times, and as we always say, history is written by the winners who write it only after their own vision. Therefore, a neutral record of historians is needed. As we know, a commission has been set up. This needs to be translated into textbooks and then taught to young people. What worries me, however, is that I hear again and again among young people the magnification of the communist system, because they don't really know what happened at the time, how it happened, but they only hear some of the ideals of someone, and then they think it's true, or in spite of that, they glorify something that is publicly considered unacceptable because of opposition. A few days ago, I smiled at myself when I remembered, and I was playing with my neighbors when I was a kid, and there I was visiting my aunt with the most beautiful, best car. That was a taunus back then. We got this car involved in our children's games. Of course, for the time being, he was the most beautiful, the best compared to the fich. Just a few days ago, I met him on a Ljubljana bypass, and I thought, "What car is that?" And that was just the taunus that I used to think of as a symbol of good, beautiful, luxuriant in my childhood. But now I've seen it's not comparable to today's situation. And so also those times are not comparable to today's conditions, and we cannot idealize what was then, and bear it to the present. However, when I read the Government's position, I agree to some extent with this view that the situation in Slovenia was specific and that this resolution is more general and adopted with great support. That things were also specific in Slovenia. I would therefore like to adopt such a resolution, which will be an expression of the actual situation or of what has happened in Slovenia. I think that such a resolution, which could be adopted by a broad majority, could be a basis or a further step towards the reconciliation and setting up of the monument we are talking about. But if we don't accept such a document first, I find it hard to believe that this monument will be recognized as something that connects us, which unites us. I always say the truth liberates. Let us see now that we see Srebrenica, even some do not acknowledge the truth that genocide was committed there. Just as we look at Armenia, some do not recognize it. Yesterday I spoke to someone from the Slovenian community in Italy and asked him what was the view of fascism now in Italy. Yeah, they're still winners. Many times I listened to our writer, Pahor, who used such zeal to explain what fascism had done to the Slovenians in Primorska and that this must be repeatedly explained to young people that they would be aware that they would condemn it or that they would not repeat the same mistakes. And even with us sometimes it seems that we simply do not know how to accept certain things as they are, and this makes life difficult for us, it often divides us and therefore we take too slow steps into the future. I very much want our young families to continue not to be burdened with this subject, but to learn about this subject, to condemn all that was bad, and then build on what is ahead in our nation, our land of good. As I have already said, the truth frees us, so I want all of us to commit ourselves to the truth together, to watch our words and actions, for people are watching us, listening to us, imitating us, and so it is up to us to see the state of the spirit in our society.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u182	Today's debate has once again shown what we all know. That history is one golden pit of ideological warfare. Now one side, now the other side takes their vision and vision of it, and no one looks at some time determinants and excludes the pieces in a partial way and interprets themselves and looks at themselves, and then also out of this choice some new philosophy and some vision, and thus does not contribute in any way to the end of this matter. Here I say that the maturity of politics has always fallen on the exam, because everyone in this history, our unfortunate history, will say, take and draw so much negative energy instead of looking forward to a future, to see that from these terrible things that have happened, we learn, we become more mature, and then we see and condemn what we are talking about, and we go a step further to looking for our way into the future. Repeating the same things over and over again, as it was on the one hand, on the other hand it was, I think it's not constructive and it's not going anywhere. History is also one where it can be stretched as a statistic, literally. Some look at it from one side, some take some data, but no one wants to look at some whole width, some whole story, and then it's clear that it can be explained and passed on to people who want to hear everything and know everything. But if, with some real distance and some professional perspectives, we analyze and listen to historians who teach, and experts in this area who talk about it, then we would actually see that it is impossible for a political space to be so powerful and with so much enthusiasm and so much time, because it is actually unconstructive. I think so many people have been read between us, that they know exactly what was right and what was wrong, and they condemn it. It has also been condemned several times, not only on our side or on the other side, but we all know what was wrong. I think we've talked enough about this, but now is really the time to move on. One is enough, the other is not enough, one would want reconciliation in a way that I don't know. But no one wants to accept simple facts. As mentioned earlier, the late bishop Shuštar and Kučan took a step — no, that was not enough. Then the law of postwar violence was made — but it was not enough. And about postwar graves — it wasn't enough. And now about the hidden graves, but it wasn't enough. And about the archives -- it's not enough. Now a draft of this monument has been made by President Pahor – and probably not enough. Even if we had finally adopted this declaration, which has actually already been adopted in 2009, we would have accepted it once again – and that would not have been enough. Because this story never ends. I think that there should be enough maturity in politics for us to say, look, let's finish, now we're going to bury all these things and turn to some future, because this future is certainly the one that awaits us. History, however, makes it clear that it is necessary to learn because history is the mother of wisdom. And if we don't learn from this, then it's all free, then we can waste our time here, our days and our days and our parliament and we won't come to the end. Once we should cut and say, look, now is enough, we've told ourselves, everyone will understand history even in their own way, no one can impose any historical facts. Those who want to understand them in this way will understand them in this way, those who understand them in their own way will understand them in their own way. We'll never get together. We're just different, and that's something to be respected. But we need to build on moving on. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Mr Sasa Tabakovic should be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. There will be no doubt that Parliament is meant to talk about a wide variety of topics and also this resolution, proposed by the Group of Members and Members, is being debated today by Parliament. However, it is important to point out that we have already discussed this and that the National Assembly has also adopted a declaration of familiarity with the European Parliament resolution to this end. And if we look at business regulations, the declaration is a form that is also in line with the Rules of Procedure. But no matter what, the debate is being held, and maybe it's the right thing to do. However, since there have been a number of indications that we do not recognise certain content of the European resolution, I would like to highlight the developments at this meeting of the National Assembly. The Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Funeral of Victims also contains in Article 1 of the European Parliament resolution of 2. 4. 2009 But if I recall correctly, today's panellists did not vote in favour of this law. So there is doubt as to whether they really believe what they are reading to others, because they also seem to have doubts, and such a resolution is found in the marriage text. On the other hand, by adopting this law, this resolution is also an integral part of the law adopted by the National Assembly. I would also like to say that the National Assembly, with one minute of silence, has already bowed to all these facts and victims of totalitarian regimes. That's what we did. That's a fact. So here I have to be corrected to all of us, because we actually did it. But, sire, if we are really willing to do so much to bring together everything that has happened in history, I will only be able to take the thought or activity that Dr. Hribar started and the group that he is leading, namely, the monument to the revolution of Dear Tršar, which was set up and still stands in 1975 – are we prepared to discuss that perhaps this common mark that we all so obviously need to clean up and connect everything that has happened in our history at this location? In fact, this sculptor composition, according to sculptors' words, is a collection of gatherings, fighting and revolutionary victories. The left-hand side of the statue was used by the sculptor to depict national oppression through history, which was actually happening to us, and the right-hand side is the resistance to this repression and the awakening of the people in the revolution. So all of this reflects this monument. With a small upgrade, goodwill can be taken one important step here and we can bring together in fact everything that has happened in history. However, I would like to draw attention to one fact that is somehow happening to us and perhaps we are not discussing it enough. Speaking of totalitarianism, I think it is still necessary to say that he has already entered our space of totalitarianism, neoliberalism. This one actually aims to subdue the whole world. Either way, yes or no, but look, it is obviously necessary to discuss this in Parliament. What does neoliberalism mean for Slovenia, for the world? All procedures go in this direction to destroy countries, to destroy the role of parliaments, the sovereignty of countries, and that people become just numbers or those who have to do jobs for someone, and this tells them how much they will then be paid for this job. And this neoliberalism — even if not fully realized — can result in a country’s awakening of a totalitarian regime such as fascism. Don't say that's not possible in Greece. Do not say that this is not possible in another country, which is put into great distress by extreme pressures through financial mechanisms. And this is a debate that I think we should upgrade today with what has already been put into the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I can rest assured that, according to the anniversary of my birth, I am a young representative, if not a young generation of citizens. As a child, I experienced the independence of Slovenia, which, in fact, came from the then authoritarian political system into democratic parliamentaryism. At that time, of course, I understood this through my family and the environment as one of the more important, important steps in the good social development. And that's how I understand him today. In fact, this action gave birth to a space, including a social political space where, according to our conscience, we can express in a respectful, reasoned, dignified manner different opinions and different views of the world. This act has been recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, for me personally at least, the most important human right, this is the right to inviolability of human life, which I personally understand more widely. Not only in a biological sense, but also in the inviolability of man’s choice or decision as to how he will live his life, his inviolability, how he will experience, how he will think, how he will explain, and how he will respect the diversity of the world around him. I deeply believe that this is in fact the only condition for spreading those mental horizons or for the freedom of an individual who is, in fact, advocates and the basis of our common social ethical code, which is basically humane and humane. Therefore, in principle, we cannot agree to any other form of political system that is currently ours, because all other forms of political systems to different individuals are always exclusive. And so, of course, I fully understand the introduction of the resolution of the National Assembly in 2009, which, in fact, had a similar debate and which, in fact, put the point on this debate in a state-of-the-art manner. In view of the words of today's debate and the generation to which I belong, I wish as a nation, and the National Assembly has the mandate of the people, realizing that if we want to live more fully, our self-reflexion must always be based on an interpretation of history that is independent and is not a prisoner of various political parties or of any ideological discourses that call for any revision. I don't think any similar diction that seeks to do this is a good diction, because it's not the right time and space we're in. So unfortunately, in this spirit, I also understand the proposal of the SDS Group, because today we are not discussing a resolution of the European Parliament, we are discussing the SDS Group's proposal for a resolution, so that we remain critical and be precise. The dictatorship of the SDS Group or such political action is therefore personally unacceptable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvat has the floor to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! On 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism by 523 votes in favour, 44 against. Since then, I have also accepted it as a European citizen, and since then, I have been trying to internalise it from this day forward, and I am trying to understand it more every day. I sometimes begin to understand individual concepts, individual words, for example, European consciousness. What's your conscience? Consciousness is the ability of someone to be aware of their existence and their mental state. European Parliamentarians also gave special emphasis to the European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of All Totalitarian and Authoritarian Regimes, 23. August. I am pleased that in this assembly of the National Assembly on 25 August last year, at 10 a.m., we also celebrated this memory. At that time, as mentioned earlier today, our president of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, addressed us. So the National Assembly somehow respects this resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. And if I said that I accepted it on April 2, 2009, and that I accept it every day, there is no reason not to do so today or at this session. Some say I don't care about the past, I only care about the future. For me, not so much, but the future of my descendants, my children and, of course, the young generations that are coming. I am very interested in what the future will bring, because in Cern they recently discovered pentawarkas, what this will mean for young Slovenian experts, for their studies, for their employability, for their standard. I'm very interested in the future, but, ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, we are a specific nation, for — how will we live for the future if we do not yet live? Because we live in the past. Why? Because we simply cannot and cannot close the chapters related to our past. Let's let the historians, what's theirs, let them close their history chapter. Politics has its task of making its political chapter to carry out its political role. Unfortunately, I don't think she's done yet. And that's why I'm saying we live in the past. And how should we direct ourselves from life to the future? And here's our handicap, here's our problem. Totalitarian systems are the product of totalitarian thinking, which is unable to accept different and ruthlessly with terror even imposes its views. However, in order to achieve its ideological goals, it does not, of course, choose resources or stop from even committing crimes. While it says democratic and truly human social systems are based on the principle of solidarity, which ensures universal equality for all people, and therefore on the freedom and so on, they take each other's differences honestly and extremely serious and even as wealth. If we compare human society to the universe, then these two systems are in it like suns and black holes. Totalitarian systems are black holes, i.e. concentrated energy, which all around us absorbs itself, weakens everything and destroys everything, are the tools of evil that sows in the environment fear, destruction and death. The opposite systems are like the sun that radiate the same energy as heat and light to all the celestial bodies around them and enable the development of life. During World War II and in the months following it, violent, frequent cruel deaths have died on our soil, barely a representative number of people, men, women, and children. It's barely possible because we should look at each case on a case-by-case basis. In each one we must see a human being, a unique, unique, precious creature, a human person with its good and less good qualities, with desires and longings, with talent and knowledge, with expectations and concerns, with love and love. Dear colleagues, this is no way for anyone to examine this vast crowd. That's why we're talking about the number of these victims. But it is already an injustice, something is unacceptable, because when we speak of numbers, we have made these unfortunates mad, their tragic lives disappear from our eyes. Among the victims were simple people and intellectuals, potential fathers and mothers, mothers of new generations, precious people who were not and will never be, because their lives had been taken before or before they were born. Victims are young and old, who have been deprived of the right to complete their life task as fathers and mothers, as friends and neighbors, as creators of the welfare of their communities and their homelands. As a result of these reflections, respected colleagues and colleagues, the victims must not be forgotten, the terrible burden of crime must not be put back into the next generation. A witness to the knowledge that is available to everyone today, thanks to historians and other experts, would be the humiliation and oppression of unfortunate victims into forgetting their own kind of continuation of crime. Our first debt is the five-year funeral of the murdered. At the same time, sincere recognition of the guilt of all involved is needed, for forgiveness can only follow. Don't let hatred reach beyond the grave. That's what a thousand years of civilisation law requires of us. This is also a message from the ancient Greek tragic story of the Brotherhood and the heroic victim of the Antigone. It is right that we are grateful to the modern European society for the 23rd August, the Memorial Day, as well as for the unequivocal condemnation of all totalitarian and all authoritarian regimes that Slovenians should join without reservation. Who knows what lies ahead? Password Nikoli has been disappointed many times. With the settled accounts, we might be a little safer. Surely, though, we will be able to look more relaxedly into the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare Mr. Janez Janša. Here you go, Mrs. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism binds us to the extent that we are bound by the political document adopted within the European Union. We have already heard that we have already taken note of this resolution in the National Assembly, and the notification declaration was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore do not feel that it is necessary to adopt a specific document once again to express further political support for this resolution and to add an addendum that substantially extends the content of the resolution, such as an explanation for the motion for a resolution in support of the European Parliament resolution. We do not need a new document to support the resolution and we do not need to adopt a resolution in our legal order with a specific document. This is not a directive, if you look at Article 288 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, you will see in the last paragraph that the recommendations and opinions are not binding, those adopted by the bodies of the European Union. The National Assembly has already taken note of this resolution and there is no need for re-acquaintment or support in our opinion. Otherwise, we could be working in the National Assembly to support the various resolutions adopted by the European Parliament and we would have very much to do. For example, we do not accept a declaration in support of the 2015 European Parliament resolution on progress towards equality between women and men in the European Union. Or a 2013 European Parliament resolution on a timetable for combating homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and sexual identity. Or a resolution on the European Roma Strategy 2008 or a resolution on the list of issues adopted by the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. There are even more European Parliament resolutions that have not been supported in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Nor is the practice of European countries, Member States of the European Union. A colleague mentioned the research task of the National Assembly, which mentioned that the Member States of the European Union do not specifically support these resolutions, are already discussing them, but there are no documents to do so. With regard to the apparent fact that we were at the SMC party when we referred to the resolution in the Law on Hidden Cemeteries, that we supported Parliament's resolution. Yes, we supported it, but also after the adoption of the Law on Hidden Cemeteries, this resolution no longer binds us and no less than it has committed us to the adoption of this law. But if this is the price to try to close painful darkness such as a burial worthy of burial of the dead, we were willing to pay that price. And we'd do it again. We are therefore not against the European Parliament resolution we are talking about. But the declaration of support for the resolution that we are now talking about, as proposed by the SDS Group, is an extension of the political commitment to the extent that we do not accept. It means the use of a resolution to review history. That is exactly what we opposed when we opposed the adoption of this declaration of support, and that is why we did not support it. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I see no reason why we should discuss again the resolution that the National Assembly has already come to know and reopen the subjects that people have enough to deal with. However, people do not know that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, even if you decide on the working body that the document is not suitable for further consideration, we need to address it again at the plenary session of the National Assembly and reopen the topics that separate us, as we have seen again today. I propose, as many of us have suggested, that we all turn to the future together. I don't think we can change the interpretations of history by discussing the past. Not at the moment. However, to make the future a better future by discussing in the present, which concerns really important topics for this country. I therefore propose that we focus on the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u192	Yes, thank you very much. See, we have proposed a resolution, as adopted by the European Parliament, and the text has not been amended either. This is not a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is the text adopted by the European Parliament. The European Parliament voted in favour of this text by the vast majority of European Members, all left- centred, right-centred, middle-level political groups. Against this text were only extreme extremists in the European Parliament. And there was very little of that. Only extreme extremists spoke of the specifics. Otherwise, it was a text that had long been coordinated and acceptable to all. And even today in this debate, no one who opposes adoption has quoted a single sentence from this resolution, which I would say is not acceptable to him. I listened carefully to the position of the largest government party, where it was said that the content was not acceptable for them. We can recheck in the magnetogram. And also some other parliamentary groups here, who do not see themselves as extreme, said that the content is not acceptable because Slovenia is a specific. The text of this resolution is so general that it covers Europe as a whole. All the specifics in Europe are covered by this text. The claim that Slovenia is special is that Slovenia is excluded from the system of some general European values. And that's a very bold claim. Some of you said it, some even more times, and I would have given it a lot of thought before I did it again. Of course, today's debate on this resolution is an ideological debate because it is a debate on values. Ideology is values, it's not an obvious fact. Ideology is also discussed whenever values are discussed. However, in this resolution there is as much ideology as in the Treaty of Lisbon, which we all have adopted, or as in the Treaty establishing the European Communities more than 50 years ago. In short, it is a debate on values. This debate is held for the third time in connection with a specific document. For the first time, the debate at this level ended in 1997 when Parliamentary Assembly resolution 1096 of the Council of Europe was considered by the Parliamentary Assembly at that time. In that resolution, which was adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe with the same vast majority as that resolution that we are talking about in the European Parliament today, that body, this European body, which is wider than the European Union, covers practically the entire continent, has determined how to democratically break down the heritage of these totalitarian regimes that we are talking about today. That text was more concrete and imposed on the Member States of the Council of Europe, those members who were then on the transition from the totalitarian regime to parliamentary democracy, how they should act to make this heritage a democratic way – I think the title Dismantling – was indeed decomposed. This resolution also ultimately recalls what will happen in those countries where they will not do so. One of these warnings also speaks of what is happening in this House today. Slovenia has obviously failed to do so, and today after, I will say, three decades of life in a single country and formal democracy, for the most part, the problem in this national assembly is the adoption of a general text condemning all totalitarian regimes and systems, without a name, no state is named, no one should feel directly affected, although this has been accepted as the broadest basis in the parliamentary body, where Slovenia has been participating for more than 10 years now as a full member. Our Members all voted in favour. Also from these parliamentary groups, which today refuse to do so. Something similar happened when the Council of Europe resolution mentioned earlier was adopted. Even then, the delegation of the Slovenian Parliament voted in favour, and those who were present, and then the same people here said that this was not acceptable for Slovenia. So one face appeared on the outside and the other face on the inside. Whether it's worth it or not, something about it later. Second, this debate was held five years ago on the same text. The delays or concerns of those who opposed were very similar to or similar to what we are hearing today, although it was mostly for other Members by name and also for other Members. Which, of course, means that this is not just a superficial topic, but it is something deeper, because it is passed on to a certain political option, regardless of the generation represented in this Chamber. So not only did we hear the same words, but we also listened to the same wording in 1997 from the then Liberal Democracy, five years ago from the then party Zares and today from the Party of the Modern Centre. It is said that it is something deeper, which is repeated, where there are no changes or even more persistent, although most of those sitting in this Parliament today probably do not even know that these discussions have already taken place, how they have taken place and what has been said at the time. But the same sentences were subconsciously repeated, where they were derived from the same value system. In the last few days, Slovenia received some mercurial, objective international assessments. This is how we learned about the OECD survey last week, according to the world's most developed countries, where Slovenia has been a member for several years now. This organisation has found that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has the lowest public support from all OECD members, that this support is more than once lower than the support to Slovenian governments before seven, eight. All OECD Member States currently have a government with more support than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's why there's no noise. If this had happened seven years ago, Slovenia would have almost burned. And the colors, as they were wiped out today at the Embassy building of the Federal Republic of Germany, should probably be wiped out in all Slovenian cities because of the so-called "residents", czech, we have illegal authority. We've seen this before in practice, we don't mean that. Today, the World Economic Forum published this regular annual survey on the competitiveness of individual countries. We could call this very specific, how perceptive a country is for a young generation. A study of how much some specific authority in one country works for the future that you have mentioned so many times. In this study, Slovenia ranks 73rd from 130 countries. Seven years ago, we were in 32nd. We've got the biggest fall of all. And now we're talking about the word that was most misused today, and it's called the future. It was said in various sentences, "let's leave the past, let's deal with the future, people don't care about the past, they care about the future and the present" and so on. I mean, it's pure nonsense. It was also said that there were more truths or that different things had happened in the past. The fact is, it's the other way around. The past is just one. And only one truth is about the past. The one who says there are more truths about the past, but I don't know, he does violence on the tongue, but he speaks in any language. The past is just one, and that's the only thing that's defined. There is no technical view of the present. What we're doing now is the past. But the future is countless, and the future is not one. What we have done so far will depend on whether the future is good or bad. There are countless versions of a good and bad future. But there is not one future that would be predetermined. It's one system that's collapsed, taught everywhere that everything is predetermined. It's not. That is to say, the decisions that each individual takes, which society adopts, depend on what this future will be. Above all, this depends on what I said at the outset, on values. That is why this debate is so important and will take place in this Chamber until it is concluded, until the Slovenian Parliament is also capable of such unity as the European Parliament has done, of adopting at least such general declarations. We're not capable of that today. Today, in this Chamber, the majority position is what was extreme in the Chamber of the European Parliament. Think about it. Slovenia is no longer an island and the end of the signal in Karavanka is no longer the border crossings. And this environment, more than in the past, will, of course, have an impact on our cultural environment, including the political environment and the expression, thank God. The fact that it can go on without the company agreeing on some of the values is a pure illusion. The fact that some horrendous act may have been committed earlier was just a representative of the largest government party talking about how someone is trying to use the word genocide in post-war killings, how repugnant it is, and then he said it was a crime of all crimes. The genocide is by definition the crime of all crimes. At least use some logical terms. Besides, you just can't. The historical book says how the summit of the German nationalist party in the second half of the 30th century discussed the so-called final solution to the Jewish question, how to eradicate the entire nation, how to do what we know today under the concept of the Holocaust. There were some concerns back then, and I don't remember exactly who said them, what history would say about it. Then Hitler replied that the Turks had virtually exterminated the Armenians after World War I, and who knows anything about it today. What a mistake! What the National Socialist Party of Germany was doing, about this genocide, this Holocaust came to light as soon as the Allied forces liberated these camps, but it was known to a great extent before. And two years later, Jewish lawyer Raphael Lemkin managed to bring the United Nations General Assembly into a legally binding form a United Nations resolution on genocide. And a hundred years after the Armenian genocide, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Armenian genocide. For a while there was no talk of it, just as we had not talked about it for a while, and then we could no longer deny it. And the more it tried, the bigger the problem became. And in the end, at least those more modern Turkish politicians had to simply admit it. With regard to Srebrenica, we have been monitoring a similar problem of the Serbian government in recent weeks, an attempt that has been successful temporarily to block a resolution in the United Nations Security Council with the help of the Russian Federation, which has the same problem. The source of genocide in Srebrenica is ideologically the same as the origin of genocide in Slovenia and Yugoslavia after World War II or this holodomora in Ukraine and Stalin's cleansing. It's the same ideological base. And since that wasn't cleared, Srebrenica happened. It wouldn't have happened if it had been cleared. The young man who did this was taught in the military academy of the Yugoslav Army that a class enemy should be physically destroyed, it is said to be killed, and then he carried it out. And this thing is now getting some serious epilogue only after the 20th anniversary of this genocide in Srebrenica. You just can't get that under the carpet. This debate will also take place in this Slovenian Parliament so many times and so long as the result is not at least about the same as it was in the European Parliament. It is true that most European countries have not considered this. The majority of other European countries have not addressed this issue. You know why? Because what is said in this resolution is self-evident for them. But with us, as we've heard today for the third time, it's not. Now, in the end, what I've predicted before is worth it. In the short term, those who have voted against this resolution and who have taken action against it today are paid off. Why? Because, in Slovenia, the forces that have scissors and canvas in their hands or in fact have the same authority have the same positions. In fact, they have this power and power and the same views and monopolies in the media, in the judiciary, in the finance, in politics over all of this precisely because of the things they want to hide behind voting against such documents. It's worth it in the short run. What is the power of these forces, the largest government party could see the first week after the elections, when they quickly removed those who had established the party — the first man, the second now left alone. It's probably hard to see all the connections, but here these connections are very clear, they're causal. But it's not worth it in the long run. Like I said before, Slovenia is not an island, these things don't just stay here. One way or another, there are collisions of this abnormality, which, as far as this valuable issue is concerned in this Chamber, is with the general European awareness of these problems. At least for some political parties who are serious about performing in the Slovenian and European spaces, this will be a permanent problem. But above all, it's a problem for us. Because until these foundations are agreed, every year we're going to get the scales I mentioned earlier. And a lot of people will wonder how that's possible, because we're the best we're listening to. It's not like that. Look at the decline in GDP in times of crisis and everything else. Once again, I urge you to think about who voted against this text in the European Parliament. Those you are rejecting today are on the same level as people who, if you hear them debate in Strasbourg or Brussels, would never want to sit with him in the same benches. But you're actually standing up with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. For certain reasons, I will read this address. Respectable citizens and citizens, esteemed colleagues, Members and fellow Members! During the rich and diverse history of our civilization, the symbolism of flowers has consistently accompanied man at every step of his daily life and remains so today. Such and different flowers mark the most joyful paths, but also the most tragic events of our lives; from birth, large and smaller life-forms, to the glory of our loved ones and ourselves. Unfortunately, today a special flower – the flower of Slovenian seas – did not arrive in the National Assembly. This flower, with its presence among us, would bring a bitter but hopeful message. On the one hand, he would remind us and remind us of more than 15,000 innocent Slovenian lives, especially Christian boys, as well as girls and women. And on the 10,000 innocent lives of people of other nationalities who were violently ended 70 years ago in a brutal and carefully planned genocide that today represents the worst murder on Slovenian soil after the end of World War II and in general. It also reminds us that, after the horrors of the Holocaust and of Lemkin's successful efforts to create today's universally adopted Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crime, we have learned little about genocide. The memory of the victims of our past history thus repeatedly reveals to us the darkest and most perverse corners of human consciousness, in which the feeling of belonging to one – a united and indivisible – nation is lost. For genocide is not only a direct attack on his victims, but on each of us, ignoring and killing humanity in someone means denying the existence of the foundations of our civilization. All those missing, in the sky rising gravestone in Slovenia, therefore represents not only the memory of the tragically deceased but also the loss of humanity in relation to commitment to the foundation of our common moral community. But from the green centre Slovenia also knows a message of hope; hopes for a brighter future based on the recognition and condemnation of distorted crimes, on a dignified attitude towards victims and the preservation of the memory of them, on the cancellation of the collectiveization of guilt, bringing those responsible before the hand of justice and, last but not least, on the symbolic but sincere forgiveness. Both survivors and relatives of the victims as well as the last bloodbaths have already crossed much of this thorny path and some of it is still rising before them. We may not even be able to imagine the woes and abominations that have plagued the surviving relatives of the victims for seven decades. That is why it is essential to devise a narrative of eligibility for victims, to bring pain and inevitable memory into our minds, to make us understand what it feels like to be forgotten, silenced, and crushed in you. Only then will we be able to express genuine solidarity with those who mourn the deceased in the Slovenian genocide. Solidarity is hope. Your Honor! Kočevski rog, Teharje, Huda cave, Konfin, Slovenska Bistrica and other war-torn sites remain a great black mark of our generation and stain, which vividly reminds us of the broken promises at the end of World War II and of the worst mistakes and shortcomings of politicalally crippled but not powerful international communities. The European Parliament has already adopted a number of resolutions in which it strongly and clearly condemns all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights that have been missed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The victims of these crimes and their family members are reminded of their compassion, understanding and recognition for their suffering. With these expressions of compassion and solidarity, we can join ourselves on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to conclude with the profound thoughts of the German poet Bertold Brecht. "When it was first reported that our friends had been butchered, there was a scream of horror. Then they took out a hundred of them. But when thousands were scattered, and the sea could not see the end, the veil of silence spread. When evil begins to fall like rain, no one shouts'sufferable'! When crimes begin to accumulate, they become invisible. When suffering becomes unbearable, screams are no longer heard." Today, we make sure that we never forget the screams and the horrors of the Rok, Tehar, and all other wartime killings and that silence never covers them. Therefore, the president of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, could kindly invite us to write our thoughts in the courtyard of the great hall in a memorial book about the traveling flower of Slovenian seas. But unfortunately, there's no such book in the lobby today. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we pay tribute to the victims of Slovenian war and post-war killings with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] Thank you. I hope that someone in this room will recognize himself in this speech show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Get Mr. Jan Škoberne ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u196	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although I only have four minutes left, I would like to draw attention to a few things that somehow challenge the applicant. In fact, the motioner challenges himself. The proposed resolution says so in paragraph 1, 'because historians agree that historical facts cannot be interpreted objectively and because there is no objective historical report because professional historians nevertheless use scientific tools to study the past and try to be as impartial as possible'. And under point b, 'because no political body or political party has the exclusive right to explain history and because these authorities and parties cannot claim to be objective'. I am signing, but I am listening on your side today — something other than the interpretation of history. We listened to Comrade Grims, colleague of Irglo's, you highlighted several times, we even heard the interpretation of World War II, even that Hitler was a communist. More. On your website, your president also published an article about NOB in May 2015, 70 years of living a lie. I don't mind someone explaining history in their own way, but the address already says that she's being interpreted as being exclusive. You say that to others who otherwise explain to themselves that they live a lie. The colleague Eva Irgle mentioned that the sole purpose of this resolution, which is being decided today, is to achieve the unification of Slovenian policy on these issues. Look, if I take a look at this article, it says that the NOB, tralala, had its political disgrace in the LDS, and then it writes, today the role of the former LDS takes over the SMC, the struggle for the flagpole city takes place between the SD and the United Left, among the political sons and grandchildren of the heirs of evil's fruits. I don't know how you're going to achieve this kind of unification by interpreting history. In short, if I shorten, the motioner also proposes this and interprets this resolution somehow with a fig in his pocket. According to my assessment, the resolution is also somewhat problematic because it is too modest to mention article 16, which states that the ultimate objective of the disclosure and assessment of crimes committed by the communist totalitarian regimes is the reconciliation that can be achieved through the recognition of responsibility, the request for forgiveness and the promotion of moral reconstruction. I wonder where there is a demand for totalitarian regimes, for fascism, for Nazism? Why such a narrow interpretation? I do not know what the reasons were in the European Parliament. Perhaps this was related to some other systems, in Stasi and in East Germany, but for the reasons described, I am sure that this resolution in Slovenia cannot have some effects of unification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan has the floor [[…]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Zorčič, let me just remind you that the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism does not speak at any point about NOB, and I myself have not talked about it at all. This debate has been based on principles and you started because when the arguments run out, there is a need for debate, of course, and the NOB for partisans. At this level, I will not, personally, as the proponent of this item of the agenda, but I would like to tell you that yes, the sole purpose of this item of the agenda, or that we have reintroduced the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, is that we wanted the whole policy to finally condemn all three totalitarianisms and this has nothing to do with any interpretation of history, but it has much to do with the value system, with respect for Mr Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u199	Replica, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u200	I'd like to rephrase with my colleague Irgle. I was misunderstood. It is not the NOB's problem in this context of this resolution. The problem is that this resolution provides that no political party has the exclusive right to interpretation or to an interpretation of history. But I wanted to say, and I said that you explain it all the time, and you take this right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u203	Then Jernya Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u204	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to say something that is not directly related, and the trifle will later be linked to this debate. Do you know which songs are quite common at events, meetings, socialist international gatherings or socialist youth internationalism or the European Youth Socialist Association? Bandiera rossa, No Pasaran, Bella ciao and so on. Why do I think that's cute? Due to an extraordinary lecture by his colleague Grims, who, at her lecture on socialists, the Red Star, Bandieri Rossi and other things, apparently forgot that the SDS then applied for entry into the world socialist international in 1992, was excluded in 1996 and decided in 1999 to join the right-centre European parties. This thing seems to me, in itself, kind of creeped into my memory, because I remember alive even the pictures in which the members of the Slovenian Democratic Youth were, at the time in the delegation, the former head of the cabinet of your colleague Dr. Beast, Mr. Debeljak, along with the members of the Young Forum at the same time under the same flag of the Young European Socialists of the World Socialist International, were having a good time – which are already? Aja, colleague Grims, Bandiera Rossa, Bella Ciao, No Pasaran and Hasta Siempre Che Guevara. That's exactly why I feel like this farce story today. I came from a family that was taken away by the natives and by the Germans by the old father, I was completely at peace with these things. My family doesn't have a problem, and you might as well start slowly. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u206	Dear colleagues and colleagues! After these discussions, I do not really understand that this resolution is opposed; even more so, one can say that the resolution is not respected or that the resolution of the European Parliament is too modest. I ask you what is too modest for Members of a large parliamentary majority to condemn all totalitarian regimes. And in Slovenia, this unification is urgently needed in condemning all totalitarian regimes, for the other European countries have already done so, either the countries of Eastern Europe with lustration alone, as we have already said in this House, Slovenia has not been able to do so until now, except for the Constitutional Court in 1992, 1995 and 1998, at a declaration level in this National Assembly. For this reason, it is still important that we adopt this resolution today, because after the vote there will be one fundamental difference between the voting room that will vote in favour of the resolution and the work of the Chamber that will vote against the adoption of the resolution, namely that this part of the Chamber will vote in favour of condemning all totalitarian regimes. And what is the definition of totalitarian regimes, totalitarianism? That at the declaration level, everyone was in the same way violating human dignity. For this reason, I ask you why you do not make this bridge, or I invite you to condemn even in Slovenia those who have violated human dignity. Look, even communism, which today was a lot of talk, was condemned by all the countries of the Eastern bloc. This national council isn't here. Either in this resolution, by adopting this resolution, or by doing so with another document, I don't care, but one day it will. And this is where this bridge is needed. For example, your fellow Members in the European Parliament, a respected SMC Group, has done so. Mojca Drčar Murko, a liberal member of Alda, participated in the coordination of this text and said that this was one of the biggest compromises, one of the biggest compromise products. And write to your Members in the European Parliament and ask them if you are right to oppose this European resolution. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, at the time of the judgment of Tito Road, in which I myself participated, said: "In constitutional terms totalitarianism is quite colourless and one-dimensional. It is entirely irrelevant which one of them is declared or regarded as his opponents; for the left or right, for the advanced or for the backward, for the conservative or for the liberal, for the religious fundamentalist or for the fundamentalistic atheistic. They are all constitutionally the same; they are the same in their own self, in contempt of human dignity." I ask you to safeguard human dignity and to adopt this European resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Mr. Roberto Battelli. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you very much. A few short answers to those who asked why they would accept this in Slovenia, why others did not accept it. It is true that you have not been accepted in parliaments, but it is true that Slovenia is different from the others. Let me tell you how Slovenia is different from those other countries and why we need to accept this, as opposed to those other countries. The fact that a person aged 94 was convicted in Germany today or yesterday because the bookkeeper was supposed to be somewhere in a concentration camp is a fact. But with us all those who have committed tithes, thousands of dead, we are not capable. This is a fundamental difference between us and them. That's another thing. Go after other Eastern European countries, for example, in Hungary, there I have convinced myself, and you will not find anywhere else a monument to that time of socialism. What about us? We have a monument to the revolution out there, as we said before. What was the revolution? Now, those of you who were sociologists on the FDV will know, and I think the rest of the Revolution could mean – what? [[…]] The abolition of the single-party system, the violent takeover of power and the constitutional rule is that we have one party in power forever. So we can say that it meant what? It's a monument to totalitarianism, isn't it? Find another monument in Europe — you will not find! Go look around Europe if you find any more monuments in these countries that I can compare myself to. Like Ceauşescu. What about us? Kip's Tito, who's just a criminal like everyone else, we have as many as you want. So, we are different in this and that is why, Mrs Murglov, this resolution needs to be done, adopted. Let's look at the trial, 8% of the East German judges are still on trial, and everyone else has left — all of us, from the first to the last. So we're different in this. Let's look at the media, the rest of them are just like they were, but they wrote, of course, that they're independent and those stories. Even some editors have remained the same for twenty-five years, that is, thirty years and, of course, quiet souls. Today I read how I directed the police — from the helicopter, that we are on the clear side — and gave direct orders where someone should be arrested and I don't know what else; in short, stupidity. [[…]] We are also different from Europe in this. Let's see something else: lustration has been done in one way or another in most of these countries, not in us. So we're different in this. Elections can be such or otherwise democratic everywhere, they are not with us. We're different. It comes to us that the leader of the opposition is put in jail; that the violation of the Constitution, the law and everything else is irrelevant, and then, of course, when all of this is abolished by the Constitutional Court, and when we ask, I will say, reigningly, whether you are ready to talk about it now, but let us experience a brutal and ruthless attack by the President of the National Assembly, who thinks he is the President of all Members. Yeah, look, we're different about that, too. Therefore, in the Slovenian space, it is necessary to adopt this document, i.e. a declaration, support for this document because of, as I said, the essential differences between the countries to which we can compare ourselves in this area and Slovenia. So don't ask me why they'd accept it if others didn't. We have to accept because we're different from the others. We will also become equal by means of such a document, or we will be on the path of equality for all these nations. I will not talk about economic and other results, because those who are, of course, because those with whom we have compared ourselves or have watched that they are deep behind us are now where we are or are before us. Therefore, due to the diversity of Slovenia, this document must be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor to prepare Mr Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, it's about the title; in fact, it's about the European consciousness, the European consciousness of the 20th century and its horrors. Well, no one is partisan in this, can't be, it's contradictory. Because if someone is partisan, then they have no consciousness; whether they do not want to have or think that they are insufficient in their quality, that they do not capture everything that is not covered by it. Which, of course, is not true. I'm kind of paralyzing the government's position, it's an important year for the government, for example 1938, Anschuss and Sudeti. The year 1939 was mentioned only indirectly in this resolution due to 23 August 1939. That day, two totalitarians in full swing agreed to subjugate Europe. What is more important for Slovenia and the same as for all other European nations as the basis for starting, the right basis for starting and actually starting World War II, which then caused all the woes that Slovenia has actually experienced? Yeah, the worst. But if we return to consciousness, we also need to know that the European context or the Euro-Atlantic context to which we belong is one, because Europe is essentially a peace mechanism, is a mechanism to preserve and consolidate peace. That is the essential importance of a united Europe. So this context to which we belong makes this space, the Slovenian space, the most secure – absolute security is not, as we know, but the safest place ever. That is why it is so important to know what it means, what is the meaning of Europe and of this mechanism, and it must be kept and maintained and enforced through and through what is written in the first and second paragraphs of this resolution. Let's get back to the resolution. First of all, it's about a briefing that's supposed to take place in 2009. This memo was such that the text of the resolution did not appear in the material at all. The decision that was in the declaration was not accompanied at all by the text of the resolution, so that people who would like to know what should have sought it elsewhere, not in the official conclusions or, so to speak, in the acts of the National Assembly. But let's just leave it. So, we have points "B and C," about which, thank God, a few words, but you also need to know how to read these documents – and I also tell the Government – you need to know how to read these documents. That it says, "...because no political body" and so on; in point C "... because of the official political explanations of historical facts..." and so on, I do not take too much time because, it happens – what? It expresses respect for all victims and renews its commitment to a peaceful and successful Europe and so on. Points B and C exclude manipulation and what follows them was accepted because everyone who accepted it knew that what it says is not manipulation, is not revisionism, is not what this is talking about. Completely depressed! This means that someone, instead of a government, probably decided not to accept it, and then ordered it, said: No! Fill this "no" with something. And then these are the arguments that come out to be rejected. But the only values that allow us the future, which are created because there is a awareness of what the future can be, if we ignore the simple fact that the whole progress made by the human race is based on what? On experience, on memory, on the entire memory and experience mechanism, which only makes it impossible to plan the future as far as possible. This shall apply to each individual and shall also apply to companies and associations of companies. This is the basis of the salt development of civilizations. So I don't know what's really going on here and why. Because someone doesn't like the proposer or it just makes no sense. [[…]] It is, as I say, a low level, a low level. The level's low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u212	I have been reading the texts of 2009 all day long, what the Members have been discussing on this same subject. I'm not even trying to listen because I'm actually getting an echo from these texts, because it's the exact same thing. Some even repeat the same sentences. And of course, it is particularly worrying, because this thesis, which I said at the outset, is confirmed, is really just about waking up and repeating and repeating the same things. But what's dangerous and, let's say, 20 minutes ago, it took place in Parliament, and it's that someone is quoting something, but they only say the piece that they like and fit in its context. In particular, he mentioned this part where ex-European MEP Mojca Drčar Murko then said that she was from Alda, so that she would have some weight of this message, what she said at the time, and said the following: because she was the one who was part of this group of liberals, and she said the following, and now I quote, "The resolution is essentially a gift to those representatives of conservative and nationalist parties coming from the republics of the former Soviet Union and the countries of the Eastern bloc..." And it continues to say, I quote, "This is one of the most compromise documents adopted by the European Parliament..." but it is also here that I add and quote again "... and at the same time the biggest has also collapsed." He didn't say that. Why not? And why did it creak the most? Because we know what they are doing in the European Parliament. In the European Parliament, they are always trying to give as broad a political interest as possible under the common denominator, so that everyone inside can see and somehow try to get caught, so that, of course, the thing will work and be done. We also know and have warned why this resolution was made at the time. What is happening today or in Slovenian space for the past many years and so many years is, of course, "use where necessary where you need it for your local story". And that's what we're doing today! Please, this is no debate, you're constantly throwing a wedge into a slot called pain and trauma; but not only communism, but all stories, left, right, middle, innocent, guilty, and I don't know what else. They want to flee from every hole, I don't know who, and they put him on the cross, and they say, "Look, it's his fault, but we don't, but we fight for justice." And we have a clear picture. Please, this is absurd, what you're doing in this resolution! If they've made a mess up there, you're making this win, but you're literally making a win out of it. That's why I warned you last week about what's going to happen here, and that's exactly what's going to happen. Yes, today he is a representative, I think he was a colleague of Ferlug, he said the following – and I will not list everything he said. But he started with Kučan and Schuštar to start this reconciliation — but it didn’t work. And you, my friend, went on to describe what was going on in this Slovenian space. But in fact the problem is somewhere else; what I mentioned last week is that Mr Assistant Archbishop Jamnik stated after 25 years that it was a bluff. But why did it take him 25 years to say that? Why didn't he say the next day that it was a bluff when they put their hands on each other and went out of business? Because today someone is instrumentalizing and wants to show in any way that he will get into the hands of a tool with which he can manipulate and follow some political ideology. On that side, I listen to the following sentences: give the historians time. Yes, they do, but it will only take time and time to do so, but certainly not for this composition of Parliament. And certainly not with these political victories that we do in the National Assembly, but only with a serious shift from politicization and with some distance, a critical distance that will actually do certain things. All those who, of course, have all their files, plans about criminals, who's guilty, who's not, who's killed and so on – what are you waiting for? What are you waiting for?Oh, my Put it in the hands of the prosecutors when you have all these files! Let them do their business, which they must do according to the law, except for that which is not outdated. But war crimes don't get old. In fact, it is not proper for us to sit here for four and a half hours today, so that we can finally find out that we cannot vote anyway, because we will not vote on anything. Tell the Slovenian public that we're just making a little joke and talking here in this room and talking and talking about who did it and who didn't do it and who did it and who did it and who did it and who did it. Please, this is unworthy of this assembly! Those who quote certain statements are given at least to the end to quote and read at least what is actually written and what is said and what is not. Some have cheated, and some may not know how to write aloud.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor and it is then Mrs Eva Irgl, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Before I was a Member, I followed the debates and they always went the same way: let's leave history, let's keep looking. History should be dealt with by historians. Today we have an excellent opportunity to support this resolution in closing a chapter. But obviously we're gonna have to keep putting these topics on the agenda. Maybe next year, in five, ten, twenty, thirty years. It's gonna happen once. Today or yesterday, in Germany, a 94-year-old Nazi was convicted and only an accountant in one camp was sentenced to 4 years in prison at 94 years of age. The prosecution proposed three and a half, and the court gave him four years. I attended the 100th anniversary of the genocide over Armenians in Yerevan, and there it was written in a memorial park, what Hitler once said when he spoke of the final solution to the Jewish question. Then he said, "Who remembers today the genocide against the Armenians?" 14 days ago there was a show about Srebrenica, and what one of the Serbian soldiers said there: In 1945 Yugoslavia killed hundreds of thousands of prisoners, and no one ever responded. So we believed that the tombs around Srebrenica would not be discovered until 50 years later, and then all will be forgotten. Since things are never condemned, it repeats the same thing over and over again. And we, too, are not able to condemn or forgive, you, colleagues and colleagues, are not capable. There is no problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party: communism, fascism and Nazism – this is all the same. Socialism, even more, socialism is not a defender against fascism and Nazism, but it is a cause of fascism and Nazism — both Hitler and Mussolini followed Marx. Look at the propaganda. Look at his statements. Moreover, the Communists and Nazis even had the anti-imperialist front pact, which later turned into the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People, which was established by our communists within the Cominterna. In early April, Yugoslavia was attacked and the communists first welcomed the German invader on our soil because they were still under the Ribbentrop Molotov Pact. Only on June 22, when the Soviet Union was attacked did they turn on them. So about who the invader is, you wouldn't. And that's exactly what they say. The resolution clearly states: Because no political body or political party has the exclusive right to explain history, because misinterpretation of history can promote exclusion policies. That is why this resolution needs to be supported. Look, I know you don't like it when we talk about communism in Yugoslavia. Black Book of Communism, French Author, Victims: Soviet Union – 20 million, China – 65 million, Vietnam – million, North Korea – 2 million, Cambodia – 2 million, Eastern Europe – million, Latin America – 150 thousand, Africa – 1.7 million, Afghanistan – 1.5 million dead. A total of about 100 million deaths due to communism. Ladies and gentlemen, it is nice to condemn fascism and Nazism, but you have a particular problem with the condemnation of communism. Here I would advise you to follow your pattern, not to say that everyone, but some, according to their pattern Pepci Kardelj – you probably all know who Pepca Kardelj was, one of the most influential in Yugoslavia, in the party. And what this comrade or this lady wrote in the Tribune shortly before the elections – interestingly, three weeks after the article they found her dead – : Communists will have to answer not only morally but also in court for crimes committed. The slaughter of patriots and their escorts (innocent children and their mothers) as well as many conscious Slovenians who were not even actively involved in the war was carried out on behalf of an idea – communism. Nor is it possible to forget that the Communist comrades tried to berate in the most inhumane way, if that is the case at all. These 'friends' are today the bearers of high state decorations and in most members of the KSF – Democratic Reform Parties!" That's where the heirs are. And if we are to prosecute all war criminals, we must be principled. [[…]] I will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u215	Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Government, there is a State Secretary who obviously does not have either motive or knowledge to respond to the facts set out in the resolution and to the claims made by Members or opposition or coalition. I propose that future members come to the meeting of the competent person of the Government, if the secretary is not qualified enough, the Secretary of State should come, Mr Klemenčič. Otherwise, on this subject, where you say it is a sensitive matter, we could put on a government team of some historians, because what the Government has written on this agenda item is a complete review of history. A complete review of history. It does not correspond to the basic facts, does not correspond to the process, to the developments that took place at the time and so on. In short, it's kind of a creamy thing to do. Above all, I am asking that at least in the end after, you say, four hours of discussion, the secretary of state just responds. Here he constantly writes something persistently, smiling up and down, left, right and so forth; we have had the opportunity to watch it, but we expect answers. The government has announced half an hour and it would be nice to have, at the point of the agenda, which is obviously necessary and will have to do something more about this topic than before to clarify the Government's views on individual claims, the speeches we Members had. In short, it's unacceptable, it's scandalous that now, at a series of meetings of the National Assembly, representatives of the government come to a series of agenda items, take time, order time, and then no one talks in a debate or a word. I would also like to point out this request to the President of the National Assembly to write to the Government to send to the National Assembly the items of the competent person's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! However, I thought that the representative of the Government would also say several more sentences in her closing statement than just the introductory words in this debate when we started talking about the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. First of all, let me say that I have listened very carefully to the discussions of all the debaters who have applied for this debate, and I would like some discussions not to take place. Unfortunately, it didn't come true. Here I am talking in particular about that decent level of debate that my colleague Battelli spoke about earlier in his very good debate. Now let me start somewhere in this last speech, again, how did it actually happen that the European Parliament resolution happened and that this text came into being? The European Parliament's resolution has several previous documents with the same subject matter, which have already been adopted at the European level. I do not know now whether the coalition supports or does not support these documents as such, given that the resolution of the European Parliament refers to them. Here, in particular, I am referring to the Resolution on Measures to Eliminate the Heritage of the former communist regimes and to the earlier statement, the powder declaration of consciousness and totalitarianism, which was originally envisaged as a common statement of the European Union. Under this powder, Mr Václav Havel was the first to sign the declaration. You probably don't have to explain and talk about who Mr. Václav Havel was. But this statement, which was followed by this resolution, which you are rejecting today in this national assembly and will not support, this resolution or this declaration was signed by thousands of Europeans, thousands of Europeans, including many prominent, well-known personalities, namely those who realize that Europe can survive only if, for the first time, it holds together in the fight against totalitarian regimes and, for the second time, only if it warns and in-depth discusses our common tragic past. And respected colleagues and colleagues, every time we do not adopt this resolution, we are further away from values that are purely basic civilisation standards. All these resolutions, therefore, the declarations, including the European Treaty, including the Resolution on the genocide in Srebrenica, which is referred to in the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, show how it is necessary to keep abreast of the crimes that have taken place and how necessary it is that the Slovenian Parliament and Europe, as one who has always been united in a joint fight against authoritarian and totalitarian regimes, really have an in-depth debate on these issues. The Prague Declaration thus states that companies that ignore the past do not have a future. Interesting. Not only did the distinguished people of Europe sign this statement, but they clearly agree that a nation that does not know its past, which ignores the past, who does not want to talk about it, cannot have a bright future. That's a fact, and that's what we see at all levels. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, the purpose of today's debate is in particular to show whether we are in fact able to condemn in a political space the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes in a uniform manner, regardless of on whose behalf totalitarianism the victim was caused. Until then, when it happens in this national assembly, that you speak only words of regret about condemning, it is not possible to do so. Actions are important, not words. The actions are those that show what a valuable system – and this should be a priority for us, at least for responsible individuals – of what value we will leave to our experts: whether we will leave a value system based on the behaviour that crime is unacceptable and must be judged, or whether, for the time being, we will leave such a value system that will be based on not condemning crimes and protecting murderers. We leave such a value system in the record of the nation to future generations. So if we don't do it by condemning a crime with a formal act, then more than ever we allow such crimes to happen again. I had already warned in this National Assembly that it was necessary to condemn a crime at the right time, so that a crime such as a crime against humanity, such as genocide, crime, all crimes, would never happen again. Which means that if history's mistakes are not acknowledged and condemned, they are likely to happen again. This also happened to us or to a former common country. It didn't take long to wait for Srebrenica to happen to us. The fact is that we have not been able to do so at the right time, and we are not yet able to do so today, to condemn the postwar murder that occurred after World War II and in the Slovenian nation, which has left an immeasurable wound, which today appears in more than 600 hidden killing sites, because we were unable to condemn it at that time and have not yet condemned it, it is no wonder that these events have repeated themselves that they have been repeated 20 years ago in Srebrenica. Let us all think together and take a real step forward in this thinking. And here to say the crime in Srebrenica, Janš's colleague mentioned earlier; the crime in Srebrenica and those crimes that occurred after the war in 1945 were committed by the same people or the successors of the same system, the successors of the same system. The continuity of the criminal communist system has, in some ways, just continued in Srebrenica, and we should stop it. This should be prevented, and we might be able to prevent it if we were to condemn the postwar murder in 1945 at the right time. So that I don't just think about it, let me read the next quote here. I quote: "In 1945, Yugoslavia killed hundreds of thousands of prisoners, and no one ever answered, so we believed that the tombs around Srebrenica would be discovered in 50 years, and then everything would be forgotten." End of quote. Lieutenant N.N., member of the Bosnian Serb army. And now I'm asking you, colleagues and colleagues. How do you take that statement? What does this statement mean to you? Do you even understand her correctly? Do you understand her correctly? Do you understand that he means that if crimes are not convicted at the right time, then new ones can happen? What happened? People simply acted on the principle that they could kill from the past because, as this statement says, things would be forgotten and never be answered for. I would therefore ask you once again to seriously reflect on these issues and, in fact, if not obviously, because we are not voting on this today, but once again to confirm this resolution of the European Parliament, because the European Parliament resolution does not speak of anything other than the condemnation of totalitarian regimes and such crimes, including crimes that occurred 20 years ago in Srebrenica. See, the resolution states, inter alia, that if Europe wants to be united, it must be able to create a unified view of its history that EU Member States must have an in-depth debate on the crimes of both Nazism, fascism and communism, as it is our common heritage. So, we're not talking here about not knowing any questions, some issues that don't touch us, but we're talking about basic civilizational standards that every nation does, and in this way, separate us from barbarism. With us, however, respected colleagues and colleagues, today, in some segments, the idea of communism is even more alive than it was when it actually existed. At least in view of the discussions we have witnessed today. I would point to something else; the resolution also says that all those who actively opposed totalitarian rule must be remembered and should have a place in the minds of Europeans as heroes of totalitarian times because of their sacrifices, their loyalty to ideals, their honor and their courage. What do we have here? Instead of honoring those who rebelled against the Communist regime, they became non-governance persons in the country, thus being deported to the Goli Island and other camps, thus seriously violating human rights and fundamental freedoms, being eliminated; instead of those people who really should be taken as examples of courage and courage, we still prefer on our streets, the markets of the bloodstones of our own nation. But that seems perfectly normal to you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it would be high time to replace, as a real resolution, the actual heroes of the totalitarian era — these statues and streets. The European Parliament's resolution, which is therefore parties to the coalition, does not support the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the United Left, thus building on common European values. So, on the values that should be common to all of us; these are respect for human dignity, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for the rule of law. The resolution builds on a common fight against totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, builds on the preservation of the memory of the past, because without truth and without memory there can be no reconciliation – or better possible for Slovenian space, there can be no reconciliation, which is essential and crucial. It builds on a clear conviction of all crimes against humanity and the massive violations of human rights committed on behalf of these regimes, and says that it is necessary to honor the victims, condemn the perpetrators, lay the foundations for reconciliation based on truth, justice and memory. And what do we have instead of supporting it? We prefer more than six hidden killings, a crime that, after all, left behind an even greater number of dead than, say, a crime in Srebrenica, but that crime, a crime after World War II, a crime without criminals or that crime was not a crime at all. The only name against which the proceedings were initiated and later withdrawn, and of course deliberately withdrawn, is Mitje Ribičič, Assistant Chief of the then Ozna. And Ozna was the one who, by order of the Communist Party, was the totalitarian party that controlled everything in the country, as far as possible and possible, responsible for the liquidations via the CNJ. And that's what you support! And that's a problem for me, and here's a big problem with the value system. There's a big problem with the value system. In comparison, colleagues mentioned earlier, in Germany, they had just convicted 93-year-old Oscar Gröning of the crimes that had been committed because he helped to co-operate with the killings of Jews in Auschwitz. But there is another important information, with us things in the prosecution do not move at all or even withdraw because they are dedicated people who are untouchable. But look what happened here; the court or prosecution demanded three and a half years for Oscar Gröning. But the court decided to increase his sentence to four years. So how many people in Slovenia were, say, part of such a system that was killing, because he was also part of such a system, say, there. It is said that his sentence has been increased, but we do not come to this area in the Slovenian Parliament or to condemn totalitarianism, let alone to condemn crime, criminals for crime, that is to say a crime against humanity that is never obsolete under international and not Slovenian law. The European Parliament resolution also speaks of the need for open archive material. I've used this subject before. On the contrary, with the Archive Material Act, we closed it through an anonymization project. I have dealt very in detail with this issue in the previous term, because I have also covered a referendum where more than 60, almost 70% of people have decided that the law is not good and that it closes the archives, but because of the quorum the referendum has failed. But it is clear to people that if they once want to know the whole truth, to know the historical facts, they must have the opportunity to have at least 20% of the archival material that remains to be seen. I really don't understand why it's been a constant hiding around here. I don't know how much of this archive material has been destroyed. Perhaps at the end of the debate, there was always talk about what we were doing in comparison, but in Slovenia there really was no communism or totalitarian system and so on. But, look, if we look at some of the key features of this Slovenian communism, which you say was not totalitarian, it is quite similar to other totalitarian regimes, quite similar. It is based on exactly the same assumptions and also has exactly the same services as it does. If we look only at Ozno and KNOJ, an organization that has managed to liquidate and kill tens of thousands of people in Slovenia. It probably wasn't some normal system, it probably wasn't a democratic system, and we need to know that it was the most common time here, not talking about prisoners of war, but it was exclusively and most of the time to eliminate potential political opponents, to eliminate potential political opponents, who the resolution says should become totalitarian heroes. Next, the State Security Service was part of this system, subordinated to the party and did not protect the country and citizens, as it should be – of course it was a pretext to protect the country and citizens. But the SDV didn't do it, the SDV was the one, and before that, the Uprising, which in all of the public life, controlled the citizens. She supervised citizens, protected solely her own interests, protected the party, not citizens and citizens. Citizens were thus supervised, not by a humanitarian organisation, but by a criminal association and, as such, by the Supreme Court in its decision. I can quote the decision, today it is known that this service has not only dealt with intelligence tasks, but has also organised various criminal activities itself, deliberately challenged them and constructed the existence and responsibility of criminal offences. To this end, it has also falsified, fabricated or suppressed burdensome evidence. Victims of such activities, usually political opponents or otherwise thinking during the period of the regime, generally did not have the opportunity to disclose the structures of the Resurrection and Rehabilitation. But you know what's most interesting? That today and precisely you, who do not support this resolution and much more to do so, are once again denying any possibility of rehabilitation. Any chance of rehabilitation. They were a victim of the system, not of any kind, not of a democratic one at all, but of an extremely totalitarian one. In modern European space today, it is unacceptable, I will say, to treat totalitarianism selectively, to condemn only some of us, but not only does it happen that we do not condemn them, but the communist system is even being magnified. Come in. You say it wasn't totalitarianism. I am interested in what the Goli Island, other camps or prisons, where political prisoners, such as Mr Adam Demaçi, were imprisoned for 28 years, because he resisted the mentalities of Tito's Yugoslavia because he wanted freedom and democracy. But this was not a totalitarian system for you, Slovenia was part of the SFRJ. This wasn't a totalitarian system for you. And what personally affected me was that when we invited Mr Demiçi to the Commission on Human Rights to talk to us, he had an extremely important debate – not one of the members of the coalition was at the meeting! Protestly, they decided not to come because they wouldn't listen. How sad, how sad, really. It's about the man who was the winner of the Sahara Prize, the winner of the Amnesty International Peace Prize, and you just said you wouldn't listen to him. Here we see this relationship, the relationship to the basic standards that should be set high on the value system. High on the value system. Dearly beloved, a very important signal would be given to all young people for the future if they adopted this resolution. In a slightly different situation, Slovenia, such as the Eastern European countries, which have all dealt with the communist regime, which in some way or another have mirrored certain things, has adopted certain legislation. I hope you'll think about it further, and when we do. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would also like to discuss the motion for a motion for a resolution by Mrs Eva Irgle and a representative of the Government, please apply by raising your hand. They get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. One minute 47 is time for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u220	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to recall another fact, namely that the European Parliament, in that resolution, also stated that on August 23rd, it will be marked as a day of remembrance for all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian systems. On August 23rd, an important date when two important foreign ministers, Ribbentrop and Molotov, decided to dismember Europe, what Europe will look like after World War II; the Soviet Union and Germany agreed, Nazism and communism agreed on what Europe will look like after the war. Here is one important thing, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepted in 2012 23 August that it will also officially mark it. This will also have to be done by your government, which does not appear to be adopting this resolution. So this is where you come into contradiction. I hope, however, you will still keep this important milestone, August 23, as a day of remembrance for the victims. Finally, let me read the quote, again from the Constitutional Court ruling by Mr Petrič, who said: "Totitarian regimes, including the former Yugoslav communist regime, have been brutally trampled on by human dignity and fundamental human rights on behalf of such or other major objectives. And the consequences of totalitarianism still lie with many nations and European history. That is why the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe stressed the need to condemn the crimes of totalitarian regimes and thus the regimes as such, and it was finally adopted by the European Parliament." I join Mr Petrič's opinion and will support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u222	Very briefly. I thought I'd give up saving people valuable time to spend it on something else. If today, ladies and gentlemen, what we have managed to do, we have opened up the wounds again, we have distanced ourselves from the one that somehow connects us all in some way, however, to somehow get ourselves to admit some mistakes in history, but all of them. And I'll be most pleased to hear on the other side when you say the patriots did something bad. I've never heard one from the other side that the collaborators, those for this country, have done a lot of bad things for these people throughout history. Unlike some, however, I am disappointed at today's debate, especially those of the younger generation in this Parliament, which would be significantly wiser to sometimes less read some archives, less read some history books that are not real, but rather look people in the eye and keep quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u224	The truth hurts, and bad conscience is a bad thing. This is what marked the entire debate of the ruling coalition and their extensions in some opposition parties today. And it was more than obvious. Because when it comes to values, it's about development. From a country where they do not respect European values, where the leadership of the country prefers to be under the red star, and the red flag, under the image of Che Guevara, a known killer, from such a country all normal investors, all normal business partners flee. In such a country, normal justice does not work; in such a country, wrong laws are adopted. A framework is being set that is unfriendly to entrepreneurs and that is why, and because of the failure of the government, the transitional Left flees abroad. This is what makes values so important. Values are the basis of each policy. It is only a question of what values we put at the forefront and whether we accept them honestly. In Slovenia, we decided on plebiscite for the European Union. The European Union has emerged from the ruins of totalitarian regimes, fascism, communism and Nazism. The most painful thing for all those who still worship one of these failed regimes is, of course, the fact that it is the multiple faces of one and the same evil that the Socialists once had the hooky cross as their symbol; that in Nazi Germany, on the other hand, they used Serbs and hammers; that in Nazi Germany the Gestapo taught at the Jaerjin Academy in Moscow that the concentration camps of the Holocaust were created at the school in the Soviet Union. This is the participation of these totalitarians. It is therefore necessary for all to have the same criteria, to be condemned equally and to establish a system based on freedom [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. It is not true that there is no condemnation, as is usually meant to overlook or, of course, turn your mind to achieve your goals. The 7th point of the resolution makes it very clear that it condemns strongly and clearly all crimes committed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, and more than clearly we have said that we accept and support the declaration, the European Parliament's resolution as a political act. Of course, we do not oppose the resolution, but you do, because, contrary to the point "e", which says, "because misinterpretation of history can promote exclusion policies and thus lead to hatred and racism..." This is the abuse of a pair of excellencies, which you constantly use from year to year, from a mandate to a mandate. I understand that you judge others by yourself because it's a psychological way, but you do what you do to us all the time. It is not true that we do not accept this resolution, but you are well aware that you have also played a game under the 109th and 110th Rules of Procedure because it is of different meanings and of course you wanted to keep such a document as you have proposed for adoption and approval in its entirety, not only because of the resolution itself, which we have pointed out more than decisively several times, that we are of course accepting it. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Procedural mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would suggest that you give the speaker the sharpest reminder of what he has now received. Each of the things I've presented today was based on facts, based on documents that I've shown every time. The source is also indicated on each of these documents. As a rule, I can also show you the pages, if you like, authors, such as the debate on which it was based, is a respected doctor of science, a lecturer at one of the American universities. These are facts that are historically confirmed, which are proven, which are irrefutable, because here are images published in books, published also on the Internet. All of this can be checked out. And someone can't afford to, especially someone with an academic title to say yes, but you're setting something up. No! No! We point to the silent side of history, because then, if you learn these facts, understanding the whole is different. And only when you see the whole thing can you then evaluate all things as they really are. Without understanding the whole, without knowing the whole, if we keep it quiet, if we show one part, but not the other part, then the wrong idea of history is formed for every individual. This is the problem we face in this country at all levels. Our school system is brainwashing, and the media is also, at least some central ones are sure. That's why people think when they talk about operating on something that is, say, in line with European standards, with European values, but in fact it's something completely different. That's what's been warned a few times today. What happens here in this House is, for example, a central political orientation, as a person would say, a majority opinion, in Europe is the extreme of extremes there, somewhere on the edge, which is being pushed away by everyone and embarrassed in essence. That's really it. Look at the vote in the European Parliament and the debates. These debates, which are here today, revolve around supporting this resolution, which would be completely unified if everyone were truly in line with European values. This support should be plebiscite here in this House. This is a document in which all involved, national parliaments participated, the European Parliament participated, scientists participated, and now it turns out that the document is valid, but we will not support anything. We don't even want to make that decision. When the arguments, which also confirm the silent side of history, are presented, it is said that no, and that is manipulation. No! No! It's a manipulation if we shut this up, ladies and gentlemen! And here is the place where the truth needs to be told, because only this is in line with the principle of intercultural dialogue, to which we have committed ourselves in 2008, when we have successfully led Slovenia and the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. Not only do I ask you to urge the speaker to be the president, but I also demand that you take the floor of the speaker who abuses procedural questions in order to discuss the arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I'm not giving anyone any reminders. I conclude the general debate on the motion for a resolution. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the motion for a resolution has been completed. Excuse me? Mrs. Irgle, if you please, a procedural proposal. Procedural. Let Mrs Eva Irgle speak procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President! I wanted to be procedural, and I would like to point out that you should warn Mr Horvath that we have not adapted the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. What you've enjoyed, Mr. Horvath, is a lie. The resolution of the European Parliament has been adopted, I hold it in my hands, from the first sentence to the last in the European Parliament. This resolution has been supported by all European Members [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] all Slovenian MEPs [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u233	I'm asking for peace in the hall. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u234	Madam President, I'd like to ask you to allow me to speak to the end of the procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u235	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u236	Because that's what the rules of procedure are, and I can do that. [[…]] If gentlemen are too nervous about my discussions, then wait outside the hall. Until then, I won't allow it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u237	I warned them, you heard. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u238	The resolution was created in the European Parliament and you cannot deny that you do not support it and do not support the content. Mr Horvat – this, Madam President, should remind Mr Horvath – it is not true that you support the resolution and it is not true that you support the content of the resolution. On my explicit question on the Commission for Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, your fellow Member from your party – I will not appoint her – but you can also look at this on the tapegram – on my sole question whether she supports the resolution and whether she supports the content of the resolution, said she does not support the content of the resolution condemning totalitarian regimes. That's what your MP said. And then she voted against this decision. You did the same on the Justice Committee. Therefore, do not deceive or fabricate things that are not real and are criminal, even to me personally as to the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also interrupt the 10th session. The National Assembly, which we will continue with the vote at 20.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u240	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for a determination. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Vocational and Vocational Education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you, President, for your word. It is true that the fact that we have already introduced a very similar law in the SDS Group for the third time is in detail modified this time, 20% of the text is new, and the fact is that we have been talking for a very long time or too long about the urgency of vocational and professional education with trade and economy in Slovenia. But unlike the first law and the second law, I have a feeling from today's debate that there is only some compromise and progress. The Minister said publicly that they would first try to carry out pilot projects and then, in cooperation with all stakeholders, prepare a separate law on apprenticeship. In short, although there is no prospect of support in the debate on our law, in the SDS Group we expect fast, thorough, effective and financially supported new approaches to the introduction of apprenticeships, which we urgently need in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u242	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. We will not support this proposal in the United Left. Why? If I start with the origin of socialist education policies, these could be defined as: education must become public, accessible and free of charge to all. Its task is not to service the capitalist economy and the class economy, but to us it is a class household of the Compradorian bourgeoisie, but it is based on its right to exist that it produces viewed, critical, confident and responsible citizens. Emancipation is an essential element of education. And this is a disaster with the neoliberal notion that the university must follow the needs of the labour market and that it must submit itself to the economy. This latest presentation of education requires equipping schoolchildren, students and students with some competences and training for a particular production process of an individual company rather than teaching them in a system that would give them some theoretical and in-depth knowledge. In spite of this principled view, it is necessary to know that this is not a fight with any idea, but that the practice is included in this educational process. It's a long way from here. It is true, however, that public education must not serve to train the future workforce for the needs of an individual employer. Even if the educational programme is more practical, this does not mean that it must be followed and removed by some flossules produced by certain representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and its brotherly organisation, but, of course, all together on the wrong side of history. The practical dimension of education is not the same as the serial production of specialized and compliant labour based on an industrial model, but precisely this: the last point is the one contained in the proposal that we received today at the table and that is why we will vote against it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u244	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. We will not support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Act on Vocational and Professional Education today in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. It must be understood, dear colleagues, that all things cannot be arranged so quickly overnight. Many systemic issues will have to be resolved; they are said to be long-term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u246	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u247	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that education is the foundation of equal opportunities. It is important to be aware that in Slovenia there is already an extremely good and effective system of vocational education, based on the addition of practical training to the theoretical model of education, either within economic societies or in inter-enterprise educational centres, where our students and students, as well as the elderly, can be trained on the latest technology from 3D lasers to printers that are also able to print facilities. What is crucial in the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party is that this proposal needs to be substantially expanded. The apprenticeship, which, unlike existing vocational education, takes place in the workplace, within the industrial pool, must first be defined within the framework of sectoral arrangements, within the framework of assembly training and thus reach agreement on how the economy will manage, finance and certify apprenticeships and how it will accept its part of the responsibility to provide jobs and the educational process to which we call apprenticeship. The German apprenticeship model based, for example, on the Bavarian industrial model in Slovenia, which has substantially smaller industrial pools and a substantially different industrial specification, cannot be directly tolerated. It is important, however, that the process of preparing the Slovenian apprenticeship model continues, as we have also found in the debate, which we have found to be constructive, and for which we can jointly assess that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education in the coming year, it will bring an appropriate form of apprenticeship, which will not be exclusively the burden of the State, but, as is most reasonable, that apprenticeship will produce the economy according to its needs and that its share in training employees for its industries will also be adequately financed; of course, with the clear support of the State and, as the Minister has said, with the support of the European funds already available for similar systems today. We will reject the proposal from the Social Democrats, also mentioned by our Slovenian Democratic Party colleague Lisec, pending a more appropriate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u248	So we can vote? We're voting. 85 Members and Members are present. The vote was 28 and 57. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 57.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We will support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will support him because we are confident that he has no financial implications. We know that the law states that the country allows one hot meal, a subsidised student diet, for a student daily and in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia we have to plan funds in case all students use all the vouchers. Thus, if we have planned to make the past year a reality, we know that it will not be the same, it can be more, it can be less, we have to plan a 100 % realization, so in our opinion this law has no financial impact. Secondly, we will support this because the state provides one free or subsidized hot meal a day for students, and nowhere does it say what it is, it is breakfast, afternoon lunch, lunch, dinner. We'll also support it because it's already happening that students come to a restaurant five to eight, they stamp with a voucher, and then they get food around half past nine. It is said that they are already eating after eight o’clock in the evening, but we know that the inn, which is open by ten o’clock, closes the kitchen at half past ten, so that there may be a difference of half an hour. This is mainly to enable those whose study process takes place until 20 p.m. and therefore do not have time to go once or twice a day to eat. We know that two vouchers can be used; in the meantime, there must be a four-hour difference between those who cannot make use of it because of the study process, and we will allow those who cannot benefit from it to take advantage of it even after lectures, which may take place until evening hours. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u250	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Of course, we will not support this proposal in the SMC Group, but not only because of the financial effects that they are, and the proposer is still insisting that they are not, but because the system, as we now have, is good at pursuing the objectives that it must pursue, this is offering students a warm meal a day. We have found through the debate that at any of the universities the study process does not take place daily continuously for 12 hours. Students have the opportunity to eat this warm meal at the time available. We have also found that food is subsidized, regardless of any other status – that is, to all students, regardless of their social situation – they can be transferred from month to month. This is the kind of benefit that makes us feel that the proposed law is not good and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u252	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. In the United Left Group, we will support this proposal, regardless of how we feel about the motivation of the proposer. We will support it: for the first time, because it is a measure which would, to some extent, improve the social situation of students and students. And the second reason for our support for this proposal lies in the logic of the austerity measures, which, last but not least, was the one which cut and restricted students' access to subsidised student diet. In the United Left, we certainly oppose such austerity measures and the kind of logic behind them. A voice is also understood in this sense. Our vote for this proposal is also a vote to eliminate the harmful logic and effects of belt tightening policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u254	So, we're done explaining the voice. We can vote. There are 85 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 51. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Environmental Protection Act by emergency procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the assembly meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. There are 85 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Water Act following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 3 to Article 1 and the SDS Group Amendment to Article 3 to Article 2 are essentially the same, we will vote on them together. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 becomes irrelevant. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD shall become irrelevant amendments to Article 14 to the SMC, Desus and SD, and the two substantive amendments to Article 17, namely the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 1, and the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under Article 2. We therefore move on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 3 under number 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 under Article 2. We're voting. There were 85 Members and Members present and 84 votes against. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. Excuse me. As the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 3 have been adopted under Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group to the same Article under Article 2, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 18 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 28 for them and 55 for them. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 13 under Article 2. We're voting. 84 Members and Members were present and 58 were voted against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 14. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 65 of them and no one was against them. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 16. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the United Left, we have proposed this amendment to Article 16 for the abolition of the Water Institute, which is in fact the only public professional institution in the field of water management. In short, by means of this amendment, we are trying to extend, on the one hand, the time limits to mitigate this abolition, which are said to move from 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2018 for two reasons. In order to give the Institute time to reorganise in fact, and to give some thought to reorganising its work and working groups. Secondly, to give them time to discuss in depth and coordinate these and related changes between the Ministry and all other stakeholders that were not available during the drafting of the law. In the third paragraph, however, we are modifying or attempting to protect at least part of the rights of workers of the Water Institute, which will in fact remain unprotected by the adoption of the law and because the regulation containing a proposal for amendments to the Water Act has to be aligned with the Labour Relations Act and the European Union Directive 2001/23 EC, which regulates the protection of workers' rights in the case of transfers of enterprises, establishments or parts of establishments and enterprises. In short, employees are currently employed as researchers and professional workers and will be transferred to official jobs. This is how we think that we must partially protect their rights and leave this time, or to comply with these other directives, and of course we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u256	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u257	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Article 16 does not mean the abolition of the Institute for Waters of the Republic of Slovenia. It only speaks or regulates the transfer of tasks and employees or officials of the Water Institute to the new Water Directive, no extension of this period for two years is necessary up to 1. 1. 2016 is more than enough time for the Ministry to handle this matter. Of course, we expect the transfer to be carried out in accordance with the legislation in force. Of course, we will not support this amendment of the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u258	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 56. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Since the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 17 to Article 1 and the SDS Group Amendment to Article 17 to Article 2 are essentially the same, we will vote on them together. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 17 under Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17 under Article 2. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 13 under number 1 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 18 has become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 3, 13, 14 and 17 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? No, no, no. So we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law for the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 6. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region for the period 2010-2015 is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u259	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, two ministers, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support this decision. The bill is suitable for further consideration, in fact a kind of emergency exit. As a Member of Parliament from Pomurje, I regret in some way that the Government has not provided enough money by the end of this year. As soon as the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year was adopted, we saw, of course, also protested, but failed, because there was not enough money to ensure that this law could be realized. Let me just say that the competitiveness promotion programme has actually provided only €19 million, and the law states that EUR 33 million must be realised. It is said to be only 57% realisation. Let me also say here that the absorption capacity of the pomur economy is present, it was present. So there's no reason that money isn't pumped because there's not supposed to be absorption capacity, it is, but there's simply no money in the budget. In a way, of course, I personally understand that. Of course, there is a great question of what the dynamics of calls will be. If tenders are to be concentrated there somewhere in 2017 and, for example, under the black scenario, applications will only be granted in late autumn 2017, then, of course, this money will not be pumped, because the last euro of payments has to be made by 31. 12. 2017. Therefore, our call to MGRT as guardian of this law is that calls must be published immediately, and, of course, in accordance with and in some dialogue with the Pomur Chamber of Economics, the regional development initiative and so on – to anyone on the skin, but on the skin of the spirit of the law. That's what I'm asking. Of course, we will closely monitor how this extension of the Development Support Act will be implemented in the Pomur region and we will be very exact here, and of course critical if anything goes wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u260	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u261	Mr President, thank you for your opportunity. All the other men present! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we certainly support the amendment of the law, thereby extending the programming period for two years, in particular by allowing the region to fully benefit from the already provided incentives, which will contribute to the creation of a competitive business environment and thus reduce unemployment. It is very important that these incentives will help make the Pomur region easier to walk from the region of modest opportunities and high social tensions to the region of opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u262	Any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u263	President, thank you for your word. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the law at first reading. I must say that, through the implementation of the law since 2010, there have been quite a few positive effects and, of course, the gloomy economy, which has been in a great recession after the loss of two large companies, that is, Pomurke as well as Mure, has suffered a great deal of damage. Unemployment was astronomical for the urban situation. If we did not implement this law, the problems would of course be even greater. But here I have to point out one part of the law that talked about the supply of water to the Pomuras. In fact, this law is effectively implemented in this part despite some problems, and I am sure that, as such, the water supply will end this year and all the Pomurec, including in Gorički, where every year, when water was scarce, it was necessary to drive the water to households for cooking and drinking. That's a big win. In 2015 it is right that every Slovenian woman has the right to access healthy drinking water in her household.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u264	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposed amendment, namely the extension of the implementation of this law, at first reading. However, in our very position and debate, we have pointed out the many irregularities that have occurred since this law existed. We really want this to not happen for the next two years, so we are now predicting that we will also table amendments in this direction. In some ways, the Secretary of State has already said and confirmed that it agrees that money is devoted to what it is actually intended to do, namely to reduce the number of unemployment and actual assistance to the development of the Pomeranian region, but not to various expertise and advisory contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u266	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We will also adopt a proposal for a law on development support for the Pomurska region. We will accept it because the funds have not actually been used yet and because we will give these calls, which I hope will be signed in time, the possibility that our unemployment will be reduced and that the tourism we are talking about will develop more. Social entrepreneurship has also been highlighted, and we see added value in this too. I hope there's enough money so we can really get Pomurje on a better path someday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u268	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. So we can vote. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes in favour, none against. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 15 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body due to treatment under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the National Food Programme and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025. As no amendments have been tabled to the resolution's supplementary proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the resolution's complementary proposal. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 65 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 18th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods under the Regular Procedure Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Branca Grims in connection with the conflict of interest and the privatisation of Telekom. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u269	Your Honor! The issue of conflict of interest must certainly be discussed, in particular because of the ongoing privatisation processes under way. The situation in Slovenia is not in line with European standards. Thus, at the head of the service, which also has legal powers to control the economy, we have a man who owns one of the stock exchange houses at the same time. What does that mean in practice? The same person meets in the service with the most confidential information, which also concerns the area of the economy, the sale of shares, acquisitions, especially, of course from abroad, all that is the jurisdiction of the service by law. On the other hand, the same person has the highest share and, together with his partner, the far largest share in one of the stock exchanges, where, of course, this information is still relevant. This does not in itself constitute a violation of the law, but clearly contradicts European standards, which, in order to avoid conflicts of interest as one of the forms of persecution or prevention against possible corruption, strongly opposes and discourages any placement of people in places where there is a clear conflict of interest. In this case, the conflict of interest here is obvious. One can do so, one can be an extremely good professional, but no one can ensure that there will be no data, some confidential information acquired or knowledge acquired by him in a function, so that all of this will never affect anything, consciously or if you want subconsciously, the decisions he will make as, say, the biggest owner in a house that deals precisely with what is also the indirect subject of control of the same service. That is why this issue, which is why this area, which is specifically addressed by Europe in many acts, has been given special attention to its recommendations. Even after this appointment, the President of the Government, as we have been able to identify, was warned a day after that, even through public funds – all that I am talking about was published at the time – but nothing happened. Because of the fact that Slovenia will now certainly be subject to review, careful review, including by all those who have participated in this process, it is also an issue of the reputation of Slovenia and the credibility of Slovenia abroad. This debate is therefore necessary and necessary and should therefore also be fully aligned with European Union standards in this area. However, this should be self-evident in a normal country, especially since the current government and its president were elected by a programme which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u270	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 53. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mesca on the announced abolition of the 50% income class. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. I asked Prime Minister Mir Cerar yesterday how he or the Prime Minister comments or supports the intention of the finance ministry to abolish the 4th grade of income, that is to say, to abolish the income class for the richest, in order to suffer between 15 million and 20 million damage in the budget, while the Government is preparing some 463 million austerity measures for next year, as announced by the National Reform Programme, and I asked him whether, in this context, we will tighten the belt even more to the poor and middle classes due to the fiscal rule and the necessary fiscal effort. With the second hand, the Government gives a gift between the 15th and 20th million budget gifts to the richest. Thus, by abolishing the 4th grade, I would give some more than 3 000 200 people in Slovenia with the highest wages, i.e. those with more than 8 000 euros gross, between 4 000 500 and 6 000 100 euros net per year. In this context, I was wondering whether Prime Minister Miro Cerar, who, not least before the elections, was defending some sociality in this country, supported this measure and in response I received the transfer. In fact, he replied: The Communication on the abolition of the highest income class is completely, excuse me, pointless. This information, which could have come from the level of expertise, has not yet been taken by the Ministry, and the government has not been informed of it at all, let alone a coalition. So it's about raising the dust in order to cause panic, debate, which is totally unnecessary. That was the answer, Mr. Mir Cerar. Mr Dušan Maramor, Minister of Finance, said something earlier: With the current novelty of the ZUJF, the burden on the income of natural persons at a rate of 50 % was prolonged for 2015 only, initially this burden was meant only for 2013 and 2014, but the measure will only apply for 2015, while for 2016 it will not be extended. The budget expenditure on this account will be around €16 million. Clearly, we have a situation where the Minister of Finance is doing something, and the First Minister is either defending the opposite or deceiving himself. I think that this is a situation that we need to talk about, but at the same time we need to talk about whether the so-called economy of superchik is really appropriate in Slovenia right now, which will continue to take on the poor and give it to the rich. While the poorest and medium-sized layers will be reduced by €436 million, we would give the richest between €15 million and €20 million [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u272	We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present and 13 were voted against. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin in relation to the tax system. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u273	My request is very simple to allow in this house a debate on the future tax system that the Republic of Slovenia wants and needs. I believe that this is not too much of an effort; I also believe that Parliament is a house where we need to discuss such things, so in some ways I expect votes to be able to hold this debate. Until now, the debate has shown that we may have a slightly different view of how to restructure the tax burden on Slovenian citizens, so I am convinced that some in-depth debate in this Parliament could also help the government, in which direction it is worth going, to make conflicts in society as small as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u274	We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present, with 25 votes against 52. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Dr Vinko Gorenak about the procedures of the Ministry of Justice following the publication of a report by the Commission on the prevention of corruption related to the corruption of the Attorney General. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Of course, this proposal for a decision would not even be necessary if the current Minister of Justice had the same criteria. On 8 January 2013, he roared from television screens, could say that he was interpreting the results of the report on the property status of the Presidents of the parties and said that those responsible should take over the Short, these individuals should take responsibility and leave. [[…]] This report, of course, fell in court later, as a result of the collapse of the then government. But when the question is about someone else who acted corruptly, and this report can no longer be withdrawn, because it was also confirmed by the Supreme Court, and of course Mr Fisher, Mr Klemenčič, is silent. So, for some of those criteria, for others, different. That is why, despite the fact that we have discussed this issue several times in the National Assembly and for the benefit of the coalition that is leading this country, we must actually repeat this debate for a fundamental reason, because this country still holds at the top of the prosecution's organisation a person who has acted corruptly and who has abused the law. Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u276	We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. There were 24 votes in favour and 56 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. The village of Györkös Žnidar and the Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčič on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning proceedings against alleged organisers and abusers at the 2012 demonstrations, 2013. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u277	As we know, at the end of 2012, the beginning of 2013 was, in fact, so massive and particularly violent demonstrations in Slovenia. During these demonstrations, there were quite a number of bodily injuries, some of them serious, some of which occurred to more than 90 police officers. Police procedures have taken place, as they have done, among other things, to mention the famous banner before parliament: "Politicals" – that is all of us – "in Barbara's trench". What happened to this police criminal complaint against the person wearing this banner? Nothing! She was thrown out, it's not a crime. I wonder what it would be like to have someone walk on German streets with a similar banner and to promote that a social group should be sent to Dachau, for example. But Slovenia is Slovenia. However, police procedures have been very large, the Minister of the Interior has given me an in-depth answer to how many criminal charges, how many criminal proposals and so on, but more than no in the judiciary, we can assess, stop. So after two years, however, it would be time to discuss this in the National Assembly. Moreover, today, there is actually complete disinformation, today a regime writer called Alexander Lucu, in the Journal, the Sunday Diary, writes how I said commands – don't look at me so badly, President, because I didn't mean anything to you – how I put in my helicopter command, where someone has to spray gas or use coercive means. Of course, it's nonsense, pure nonsense, at least for those who know the law. Anyway, it's right, it's time we talked about this in the National Assembly, so I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u278	We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 56. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jernej Vrtovac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, and the Minister of Justice of Mags. Goran Klemenčič on Mr Jerne Vrtovac's question about the persecution of corruption in the health system. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u279	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian health system has many problems, and one of them is also clearly systemic corruption in health care either in investment, in purchase, in procurement, in procurement, and so on, because from the means of public information we can testify that there is no longer a call in the healthcare system, a call for more value that would not be accompanied by a criminal investigation. The common point of all these corruptions is that there are no court epilogues. If we think of the operating tables, the alleged corruption at the Oncology Institute and so on, there is no court epilogue. So, systemic corruption is one of the pressing problems of our healthcare system, and I am pleased that yesterday, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, and the Minister of Justice, which I have also asked about, agreed on this. Indeed, it is right for the National Assembly to speak, discuss corruption in the Slovenian health system, and in doing so I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u280	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Dr Dusan Mumorr's reply to the question of mags. Andrej Širclj on the consequences of decisions concerning Greece. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! Regardless of today's decisions by the Greek Parliament and whether there will be new elections in Greece because the current government will fall or not, the current question is, of course, what will happen to the euro. The euro is also a Slovenian currency and all of this has an impact on what the euro is to other currencies, up to, for example, dollars, and what this can do to inflation itself. Not only that, of course, it is very important how our claims against Greece are secured, what will actually happen in this case and what may happen with future claims; that is, it is known that after one variant Greece will receive an additional €86 billion in the coming years, it needs another €12 billion by August, in short, this figure is not yet known at all, and not least this money will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers, or part of that money will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers. In this regard, the answer of the Minister of Finance was not complete and could not be perfect because of all these events that are happening today and will be happening tomorrow, but it is, I think, quite frankly, that the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament know what is going on with our currency, we know what is going to happen with it in the future, and we know how we will remedy Greek debts. Of course, this also depends on the situation of Slovenia and, of course, the situation of Europe depends on it. Because of my proposals, colleagues and colleagues, to support the proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the euro, on the situation of our currency.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u282	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 55. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Andrej Couch, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Mr Andrej Couch about the principle of equality of citizens and citizens and their constitutional rights in the event of damages. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. Good evening, everyone! Let me say that I asked this oral question in the National Assembly two months ago. At that time, I also appealed to Minister Klemenčič to receive an answer as soon as possible, in writing, and until yesterday, I received no reply from the Ministry, so I decided to ask this oral question once again. It is related to a catastrophic event, said Drave in 2012, which caused 373 million euros in damage to Slovenia. In fact, more than 8 000 citizens and citizens have been injured in the country, all the way from Dravograd. I must say, many victims have lost confidence in the rule of law. Indeed, the state has failed them because the State Defence Office wants to negotiate with neighbouring Austria solely for the damage caused by public infrastructure. In doing so, the State's Office proposes that all these injured persons be forgotten to be alone. Another problem that has occurred here is that the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia is hiding an internal analysis of the Drava river flood, with which the victims can turn to the courts and seek justice and responsibility, and also get the compensation that belongs to them. This, of course, is from those who let water flow from Austria to Slovenia. Obsolete hands, or hands, for the time to come, or for the time to come, of the injured, are at the door. 6 November will be quick here and Slovenian policy must do much in this area, because so far there is nothing. That is why I also call for this debate to be held at the next meeting, because we have only two months left if not, the country will literally leave these people behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u284	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 51. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejana Židana to the question of Ms Violeta Tomić regarding Kobilna Lipica and the company Lipica tourism, d.o.o. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u285	Thank you. Please support me in the initiative to hold a debate on this subject, as already at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, colleague Hainz warned in his parliamentary question about the issue of non-payment of salaries and travel costs in Lipica tourism, d.o.o. and that the Government has not yet taken a decision which of the possible options of the solution offered by SDH would be chosen by the Government. Our Minister of the Jews always stresses his concern for the horse of the Lipican and claims that the Lipican is taken care of more than ever. However, if we look at the report on the operation of Kobilarna Lipica for 2014, we see that this is quite a long way from the truth. The infrastructure is visibly failing, due to the unaccepted work programme and the lack of resources, new machines have not been able to provide. It also draws attention to the critical human resources situation in horse riding and horse riding and thus threatens not only the implementation of the breeding programme but also the programmes of the Leipzig riding school. Employees are desperate, they don't know what fate awaits them. If we also point out that, without the knowledge of our Ministry of Austria, the Lipisco has entered its cultural heritage into Unesco's, then we justifiably doubt that the Lipisco has been better taken care of than ever before. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u286	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to Mr Tomaž Lisca's question on the regulation of the issue of chimneys. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u287	Thank you, President, for your word. Obviously not only Members of Parliament, but also citizens breathe bad air. One of the reasons is the problem of chimneys, which has been in the last ten years, instead of solving them, only the situation on the ground is getting worse. Otherwise, in good faith, the minister probably predicted that by the end of the day, it would be up to 1. 1. 2016, in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act on the new regulation of the chimney theme. The Law Is Clear, 1 / 1 1. 2016 a completely free or licensed system, but of course on the other hand we also have initiatives from existing concessionaires who want to keep the current situation for at least some time. What's more, the secretary predicted it would be up to 1. 1st regime also records which are completely disorderly. The minister also announced that she would be up to 1. 1. 2016 adopted two regulations and one regulation to regulate prices. We are afraid in the Group that these solutions will somehow come under the table, that those chimney lobbyists who have been in control of this scene for ten years will continue to pursue their policy, that even those officials who are evidenceable with the Ministry, and especially with the chimneys, will continue to sow their own politics in the area of chimneys, and that is why I ask you to support my proposal to hold a debate, because the subject of chimney action on each of us, regardless of our political affiliation, regardless of where we come from. Please support this debate. However, if you do not support this debate, we will use all the parliamentary mechanisms in the SDS Group to hear a voice about the regulation of the chimney problem in every house in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u288	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 51. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to Mr Zvonka Lah's question on spatial legislation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian space and construction management system is obsolete. It is based on surviving mental structures from socialist times and on private interests after profits. The time taken for the adoption of municipal spatial acts is too long. It lasts from 4 to 6 years, which is unacceptable for investors and, above all, foreign investors. The State should ensure the right to build to all investors, in particular to foreign investors, within at least one year. Therefore, our investors are fleeing from Slovenia, and ours are fleeing from Slovenia mainly to Austria. The situation in this area is very messy, since we have more than 10,000 black buildings in Slovenia, we have about 300,000 buildings built in violation of the regulations, and there is a big mess on the ground or in the whole of Slovenia. In addition, we also have poor records or insufficient records to enforce the property tax, as the Constitutional Court has also found and something must be done urgently in this area. While the government is working in a normative programme to amend the Law on Spatial Planning and Amendment of the Law on Construction of Buildings, the Ministry has recognised here that the completion of the law itself will not be sufficiently effective, that we will not achieve a lot of effective legislation and that new laws will have to be built. And that takes time. I asked the Minister what they had done so far, it had been one year since this government, and the Minister herself acknowledged that this is the area she knows most because it comes from both the municipality and the administrative unit, but nothing is done. According to my data, there is a group at the Ministry, but nothing works. In this area we do not need the money from the budget, we only need the right people, the will to do something in this area. By amending this legislation, municipalities could adopt spatial acts so that a number of facilities could be legalised, thus obtaining municipal contributions and building municipal infrastructure. Since this legislation is very important, I propose that a broader debate be held here in the National Assembly, and I hope that you will support it here because there is a possibility that something will be done without some large financial means.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u290	We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 27 votes in favour and 50 votes in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Třček, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Restorska to the question of Mr Franc Trčko on the developmental non-support of the problem area. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 29 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mags. Darka Krašovac on the question of the delegation of Miha Kordiša regarding State aid to Nova Ljubljanski banka. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 29 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Anja Bah Žibert about the implementation of the recommendations made by the European Union in its review of the state of justice in the European Union for the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present and 24 were voted against and 56 were present. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the invitation to judicial proceedings during the period of judicial leave. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I asked the Minister what it was like to respect the law by the courts. In fact, legislation during court holidays provides that courts or judges do something when it comes to foreigners, when it comes to other urgent matters, or when it comes to detention. There was a situation in Maribor – you know what I'm talking about – when former Mayor Franz Kangler received an invitation to court every five days during court holidays. It is true that at the time that I asked the question and by the time that the Minister answered, the court had already called for this hearing. However, one fundamental question arises: How can courts and judges actually violate the legislation that defines their work? It is not just this issue, it is a broader issue in this area, we always have something to say about the judiciary and, of course, I have proposed a debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u292	We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present, with 25 votes against 56. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, these are the Mandate- voluntary matters. As no further matter has been drawn up by the Mandate-Election Commission for the hearing of the National Assembly, I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on tax clearance of accounts under the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Monday, 13. Seven. 2015 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a candidate, decided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware of the problem of the grey economy and work in black, but unfortunately we do not think that we will do anything with the introduction of the tax registers. Why? Because this won't get us those who actually do the job in black, those who don't issue bills. That's exactly the problem in our country. We also find the measure completely disproportionate. Let's see, 1. Seven. We have introduced virtual tax receipts that were said to have an impact of some 100 million euros; so we have received those who did not issue invoices or delete accounts – I must say. At the beginning of this year, we have introduced a bound account book for all those who were still in business with cash. Today, we speak and accept tax receipts. However, the impact of these tax receipts would be between €50 million and €100 million. However, if we look at the cost of introducing the tax registers, we will also arrive at between €40 million and €50 million very quickly. The only difference is that we hang this cost to a greater extent on taxpayers. The problem with this measure is to put an additional and administrative burden on the small economy in particular – and also financially. We therefore do not support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u294	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u295	Thank you, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group strongly opposes the proposal for a bill on tax clearance of accounts, or, more specifically, the introduction of tax registers at home. When we were in the coalition, we adopted a law in 2012 that allowed the introduction, the introduction of virtual tax registers – but they are nothing virtual, they are very real – and they have also had effects and have effects. In its coalition agreement, the Coalition announced the fight against the grey economy, and between the 9 coalition projects under project number 5 it recorded the introduction of the tax registers. What are the effects? We believe it to be minimal or even negative. Why? Because it is a stick that will strike at the taxpayers, weighing around €40 million, it is estimated that this is the same for the government, not least, and our assessment of the cost of introducing tax bills. It's called a hardware, and a software that I don't talk about then monthly maintenance and so on. On the other hand, according to government forecasts, around 70 million more tax revenues are expected to have an impact. So, the effect, everyone can calculate, is a relative prick. If a measure were indeed introduced where we would like to halve the grey economy at least, then this measure should be such that it would have had an impact by a higher inflow of about half a billion euro at annual level in the state budget only on VAT. However, since this is not the case, this measure represents only poor will for the debtors, about 80,000 of them, and it will happen that, above all, the small economy has a suitcase full of all these ever new and new administrative obstacles and turbulence and unstable business environments, so they will say they have enough, we prefer to go to Austria to work or we prefer to go to the area of the grey economy. As a result, we will be able to have longer-term grey economies and perhaps even on the side of those who will be seeking social assistance. The project is inconceivable, even because the infrastructure is not one that would actually allow it to have tax repositories that must always be online in connection with Furs. So we're going to have some confusion, two systems – one is a book of bound accounts, the other is going to be a tax box – and above all, as we say, a lot of confusion, too little impact, the grey economy, and we guarantee that there will be nothing less. So, bad will for the economy, instead of some better stimulating business environment, more employees. We simply cannot say to such a bill: Yes. So we say no! And that's a jump. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u296	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Tillen Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u297	Thank you for your word. First of all, it is a promise made by the Party's pre-election programme of the modern centre; secondly, it is a commitment made by the coalition agreement that we have concluded with our partners, and in our opinion it is an important step in the fight against the grey economy and in the area of prevention and employment and black employment. The development of information technologies has allowed us to give away a law that is designed in modern times and allows us to confirm accounts in real time, while aware of the real limitations that exist and that we have in law, I believe that we have also successfully taken into account and implemented them. But let's not go blind. This is one of the measures, this is the first step, as has already been said, which will require a lot more, particularly complementary measures in this area, from certain games to encourage consumers to raise awareness, raise awareness and improve control. Next, there will also be important tax measures to reach a simple, transparent, modern, robust and, above all, fair tax system. That is why we will also support this law in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u298	In your own name, please sign in. Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u299	Your Honor! When you talk about the grey economy, you need to know that this law of the grey economy will not harm anything. Whoever's working for the neighbor today, so I'll pay him in cash, he'll do it in the future. This law will only be an example of what we talked about a little while ago if it is the wrong value system. It is not the task of the Government to work new and new obstacles for entrepreneurs, it is not the task of the Government to propose ever-indirect taxes on ordinary people, which is why they are living worse and at the same time opening up additional jobs within bureaucracy and will probably even boast about it. The task of the Government is to create a framework within which entrepreneurship can normally live, to meet as few obstacles as possible and to be as competitive as possible, to at least get closer if not even better in terms of the situation it has in neighbouring Austria. The effect will only be negative, I do not share that partial optimism of colleagues. The effect will be that there will be more gray economies, more bad lives and bad wills of people, even more outflows of our entrepreneurs to neighbouring Austria, where they do not know this kind of nonsense, have flatulence with all the small entrepreneurs, and so on – I hope you all know that. And the final effect of this will be to pay higher taxes, to live worse, to make things and services more expensive, to make entrepreneurs less, to reduce jobs, and to fall further into the spiral of the wrong value system, which in fact stems from the thinking of socialism. What you have brought here is a fine example of a bureaucratic law written down for the further development of bureaucracy, both in combination with excessive sentences and ultimately the burden of an ordinary person. At the same time, what's most devastating in the long term is bad for entrepreneurship. This, ladies and gentlemen, must be rejected and I will vote "again".
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u300	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u301	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A country where RTV is a mandatory contribution, a country that has a single price of petrol, a country that still has a majority of state-owned enterprises, which also have some monopolistic positions, a country that has the most expensive judicial system, and a country that is on this path, which has also been warned by the resolution, by another – 1096 in Article 1. That's the essence of this marriage. The legacy of former communist totalitarian systems is not easy to get rid of. At the institutional level, this heritage covers the centralisation of civil institutions, bureaucracy, monopolisation and excessive regulation, and at the level of society ranges from collectivism and conformism to blind obedience and other totalitarian mental patterns. One such mental pattern, one such repetition of the mental patterns of former socialist systems, is excessive regulation and this law brings it. This is the path to collapse, this is the path that goes away from some of the mental processes of a serious developed Europe and leads back to some socialist system. Because of this, all of this, blind obedience, these mental patterns that you carry forward and sell to the future, I will not support this law as a reasonable person.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-15-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u302	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and 30 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Your Honor! At the conclusion of this meeting, I would like to announce that, on behalf of the National Assembly, I will formally apologize to all the victims, their relatives and others for the recent fiveth anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide, for the destruction of the recent fiveth anniversary. I conclude the 10th meeting of the National Assembly.
