ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, Mrs. Ksenija Rootjak Kramar, mag. Miriam Bon Klanjšček from 3 p.m. on, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, Dr. Franc Trček by 17:00, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 16:00 on, Miha Kordiš from 10.30 a.m. on and Luka Mesec from 18:00 on. I welcome everyone here. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u4	Dear President, fellow Members! Today is again one of those darker days for Slovenian democracy, namely in the National Assembly a police investigation is under way. I can say with sadness that they sealed the office of one of our Members and also wanted access to other offices, the neighbouring offices that our Members have. This action is certainly not an honor to you, President, and also to the leadership of the National Assembly, even less to Slovenian democracy. If the Government of Mir Cerar wants to avenge the Slovenian Democratic Party during this sensitive period, and that is just at the time of the meeting of the National Assembly, then we understand this message. But I don't think that's the right move. If you're going to organize a police investigation in the National Assembly, then you could do it at a more appropriate time. May last week, when there was no meeting, at a time when it was also available, say, yesterday morning, but obviously this should be done at the time of the meeting of the National Assembly. In order for the measure to be complete, I must inform you that there is also a police investigation at the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the customer's headquarters, that the police want the client's server, that the person being investigated is Mr Shirtzlj, has no office and room on the party, is not at the party's seat, but all this is wanted by the Slovenian Democratic Party. If you want an insight into our internal communications, then that's a serious problem. And given that our participation in the work of the National Assembly has been hampered in one way or another today, perhaps even in the coming days, I will tell you that we will obstruct this meeting, or today, for sure, even in the coming days. However, I propose to you, Mr President, because probably the Slovenian Democratic Party is not some marginal party to this Parliament to consider carefully whether, under such conditions, it is even worth continuing today's meeting of the National Assembly. If it's even worth going on. It is up to you to decide for yourself, I suggest you think about it and create the conditions for us to participate actively, to cooperate properly, to cooperate with appropriate status and to cooperate fully. For the fact that you do not have in coalition parties, that the President of the Government does not have any other tools than that, through his minister, he may also be able to do justice, and that the minister who oversees the police initiates such an action is probably not unusual. In view of the situation, I think, given the situation in which your trends are falling, when you have collective resistance in fact to all the professional public in individual departments, there is virtually no minister who does not oppose himself a frontal attack from the area he covers, all of whom he is tanning, that it is probably the only tool you have left to try to discredit and undermine the Slovenian Democratic Party in this way. Mr President, we will obstruct today and I suggest you consider whether or not you will continue to hold the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u5	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u6	Wait a minute. I would only suggest, the President of the National Assembly, that what Mr Tanko has said, now before the work continues or not, you call on the leaders of the parliamentary groups to somehow inform the leaders of the parliamentary groups what is going on. I think it is necessary, however, to maintain some face of this National Assembly, so I would suggest that before we continue to convene an informal call to the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u7	I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll pick her up at 10:00. Until then, we will meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups, including, I will try, including my colleague Tank, to be at this meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u8	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I inform you that we will continue the meeting at 12 noon, in the meantime we will have legal advice and then the final decision on today's meeting will be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u9	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly, which we have suspended in order to inform the leaders of the parliamentary groups of the situation in relation to the inquiry at the premises of the National Assembly. After consulting the Legislative and Legal Service, I find that there is no constitutional or business basis for the mandatory suspension of the National Assembly. However, matters which are now and in the coming days on the agenda of the Meeting of the National Assembly do not permit their further postponement due to the urgency. We're moving to 2A. At the end of the day, this is on the efficiencies of the law on the amendment of the law on the balancing of public finances by emergency procedure. Procedurally, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Regardless of the fact that you have met with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and that you have found that there is no legal basis for us to continue the meeting, I am not a member of any parliamentary group, nor am I participating in meetings of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and I am still wondering why the meeting has been suspended, but especially in view of the practice we are reintroducing, it is indeed a kind of precedent. We have already had several suspensions in the National Assembly due to the entry of the police, I have pointed out the problem, because we do not have the appropriate protocols resolved, in any event, in such cases. Today, in fact, we have a new interesting case that again introduces new parliamentary practice, which is to announce even obstruction due to the entry of the police. I think it's time for the National Assembly to do something. Firstly, it is that, as the only body in the Republic of Slovenia that does not have its own law to regulate certain procedures, this is the Law on the National Assembly and not the Rules of Procedure, or the oral protocols or whatever else there is, either intent or inadvertently, does not say what in such a case. That is why I think that as a Member, and this applies to all Members and Members, it is also up to you to say how you will proceed in the following way. In fact, I don't know if I'm going to be back tomorrow or if we have to wait for a new case to get in the way of disrupting the process of the National Assembly, no one in this country, but no one has the right to interfere with the work of the National Assembly. [[…]] And that's why I think this is a very important question, and my question is procedurally: What about the next case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u11	I don't have much more to add to what I've already learned for this case. However, the fact is that matters are neither protocolly nor otherwise regulated in relation to all other branches of government. One option for which the political will needs to be checked is in fact what you have proposed, and this is indeed one of the options, the Law on the National Assembly, which would regulate such procedures, but I think that such procedures could somehow conflict with the procedures we know under another legislation. This is certainly the kind of thing we're going to discuss. At least the leaders of the groups of Members, and also in an appropriate manner all Members, and on this basis, decided how to proceed from this point. This time, in comparison with the first procedure, the matter was handled, however, I will say more correctly in the sense that the authorities did not enter this assembly before the presence of the authorised, the Secretary-General or myself was assured. So there is already some progress that has taken place here, even though the actual protocol as such has not yet been set. And that's a minimum of what needs to be done up to the executive branch of power. So there is a will to move the matter forward, but it is a matter of reflection and self-sustaining that appropriate arrangements will be made. Of course, then, I will need the consent or consent of the members of this National Assembly, the desired majority in such a case cannot only be the ordinary 46, but we will strive for what is at least the majority needed for business change, if not the majority. And now we're moving on to the 2nd A-point of the agenda, that's on a defensive proposal for a bill to supplement the Public Finance Balance Act by emergency procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending the Income Act, following a reduced procedure submitted by a group of 10 Members and Members with the first signed Luke Mesec, and the proposal for a law supplementing the Public Finance Balance Act, following an urgent procedure of which the Government is the proposer. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided, in its debate on those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the same Article of the Rules of Procedure, he also concluded that no article in the draft law on the basis of which any additional draft law would be drawn up would include any of the articles contained in the draft law. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the applicants of both proposals for supplementary explanations. I give the floor first to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for a new Law on Public Finance Balancing proposes a transitional scheme for the income scale. This is a specific arrangement for the period of two fiscal years, 2016 and 2017, and the following is proposed. Change in the rate of income by raising the threshold between the second and third tax classes, from the current EUR 18,960, representing approximately 1.5 average wages, to EUR 20,400 net annual tax base, representing slightly more than 1.6 average wages. The second amendment to the bill is the maintenance of the fourth tax grade at 50% on a net annual tax base of €70.907, which is about 5 times the average wage. This solution is already in force under the current Public Finance Balance Act 2015. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that the tax grade limits are set by a net annual tax base, which is reduced by gross income for compulsory social security contributions, general relief and other reliefs that an individual debtor may grant. So gross income is higher than net tax base. The proposed amendment aims to restructure tax burdens between taxpayers for income taxed synthetically at an annual level with progressive tax rates with the aim of creating a more favourable burden structure while maintaining the revenue of the budget as part of the monitoring of public financial consolidation commitments by 2020. The fourth tax grade was introduced as a special measure for the period of economic and financial crisis as of 2013. While the revenue of the State budget under this heading is no longer to be provided or planned in the draft budget, it is appropriate, according to the Government's assessment, to target the burden on the taxpayers between the second and the third tax classes, i.e. the burden of highly skilled workers. While the burden of income work has been declining in Slovenia since 2005, the structure of the burden among the debtors in the various income classes is quite unfavourable. The current regulation is characterised by steep progress, i.e. a rapid shift to taxation at a rate of 41 %. This is seen as a major obstacle in terms of the impact on competitiveness or labour costs, as it actually concerns highly educated professionals who are difficult to properly reward and thus stimulate or retain in the company due to high workload. The proposal is to relieve taxable persons with income above 1.5 average wages in 2015, with a neutral effect on the budget. A total of 114,740 taxpayers, or 12% of all indemnities, will be burdened, 20,400 indemnities will be moved from the third to the second tax grade, that is 2% of all in the case of unloading, and a burden will be reached on the debtor up to about EUR 200 per year. Your Honor! The government considers this to be an appropriate step in the right direction at the moment, but also predicts further measures to increase the competitiveness of the economy in the labour burden segment. Taking into account all the above, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u13	I also give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the proposal for the Law of Luka Mescu.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! In the United Left, together with the unrelated Members, we proposed an amendment to the Income Act because the cancellation of the so-called mini tax reform has become a serious risk that the fourth income class will fall with it, says the income class, which loads the richest or converted 0.3% of the best paid people in Slovenia with 50% of the burden. This would, of course, be socially unfair in these times. I cannot agree with Mrs Vraničar's opinion that revenue in the budget is no longer needed at this time, but we say quite the contrary, the country could still help itself with the 16 million euros that would have been paid from 0.3% of the best paid people, from the people who received on average around €130,000 a year last year. This measure is a social pain, this measure is fair, this measure reduces inequality and adds something to the state budget. With our proposal, which we have proposed together with unrelated Members, and in this is the fundamental difference between our proposal and the government proposal, these 16 million that we would have obtained from this title would go to the budget and the country could use them from the budget for some productive purpose. We would suggest, of course, priorities. And the priority, as we have said many times, is for us at this time to fight poverty, because it is unacceptable that after two years of economic growth we still have 300,000 fellow citizens and fellow citizens living below the poverty line. We could spend it, say, to raise the minimum income to EUR 308, we could spend it for some other social purpose, but unfortunately we were forced on the committee to compromise with the government law, which means that these 16 million will not be in the budget and we will not be able to use them for that purpose, but will be redistributed between 12% of the best paid. The government will do the following: it will maintain the fourth income class and collect these additional 16 million, but by moving the border between the second and third income classes it will immediately deploy them, as the secretary has already told me, among the 12% of the best paid people in Slovenia. This means that we, who are sitting here, Members, officials and other people with higher average wages in Slovenia, will receive tax gifts, on average, this is what we have calculated, will amount to 17 euros per month, while the recipient of the money aid, which has otherwise been defrosted this year, will receive only 120 euros per month more than last year, it says, we will be 200 euros, someone on cash assistance and 120 euros per year, and will still be 300 euros below the poverty threshold. This clearly shows the benefits of this proposal, thus clearly demonstrating the interests of the government here and thus clearly demonstrating the nature of the government proposal. In fact, this proposal is somewhat populism, or it retains the fourth income class, but at the same time interesting, the money it collects from the fourth income class is distributed among the best paid officials and managers. So the fiscal effect here is nothing. We're not going to solve social problems with him. Nor will we solve the crisis in which of the social subsystems. In this way, in the United Left, we cannot agree to such a retention of the income margin. That's all I'd say at the end. The government proposal comes from the belief that 50% of the income class is something that is temporary, something that we should have during the crisis. However, I would like to point out that if we look at comparable European countries, even those where Slovenia is at least nominally modelled, 50 percent and more of the income classes are no exception, they are first signs of a normal tax system. In Sweden, for example, they have a 57% income class, and in the Netherlands, which is otherwise known as liberal, the 50% income class starts at 57,000 euros, not like us, at 71,000 euros, even though they have once higher wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u15	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 41st emergency meeting. 12. On the basis of the third paragraph, in conjunction with the first and second paragraphs of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, under the same item of the agenda, the two draft laws, namely the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Income, the summary procedure proposed by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Luke Mesec and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, the urgent procedure submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance on both proposals for the law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 1 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and Articles 2 and 3 of the Act on the Admission of the Group of the United Left. In accordance with Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee first adopted a decision to deal with both proposals for legislation under the same agenda item at a meeting of the Committee under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the urgent procedure for the adoption of legislation. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the Proposal for a Law amending the Income Act, Member Luka Mesec, on behalf of the Group of Members and Members of the Law's Proponents, explained that the proposed solution meant the maintenance of the fourth tax grade with a maximum tax rate of 50% and said that it was a socially fair measure that was being resolved in the system law. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Public Finance Balance Act, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Government, stressed that the rate of return is temporarily changing, by increasing the threshold between the second and third tax classes and maintaining the fourth income class. This is a measure which is publicly neutral. The Committee further adopted the decision to draw up the amended draft law on the basis of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Finance Balance, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has also discussed and decided whether any of the articles of the Income Act will be incorporated into the Public Finance Balance Act, on the basis of which a proposal for a law will be prepared. Representatives of the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the Council of State presented their opinions. Following the discussion of the members and members of the Committee and the replies of the Secretary of State, the Committee decided not to include any of the articles in the draft law amending the Income Act in the draft law. In the light of the previous conclusions, the Committee continued its second reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Balancing of Public Finances, as presented in the text. The Committee considered and did not adopt the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats to Article 1 of the bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. Since amendments were not adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for the Act supplementing the Law on the Balance of Public Finance be adopted in the proposed text. The Committee further agreed to propose extending the agenda of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly by examining the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, an urgent procedure submitted by the Government to the Assembly. On the basis of all the decisions taken, the Committee also concluded the legislative procedure for the Income Act and on the basis of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and decided that the proposal for a law amending the Income Act, the reduced procedure submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members, was not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u17	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Proposal for a Law supplementing the Public Finance Balance Act as a temporary measure for two years amends the rate of income to increase the threshold between the 2nd and 3rd tax classes, from the current EUR 18000 960 to EUR 20 000 400 net annual tax base. It also maintains the 4th tax grade with a rate of 50% at a net annual tax base of EUR 70 000 907. Taking into account the applicable income scale, the taxable persons receiving an income of 1.5 times the average wage, taking into account only the general benefit taxed at a rate of 41 %. According to the proposal, the burden of a taxable person with a tax rate of 41 % on income of 1.6 times the average wage will start with an increase in the 2nd to 3rd grade. According to the 2013 income tax, this represents a relief for around 2% of the taxpayers of around 200 euros per year. However, taking into account the progressive income scale, those in the higher income classes will also be burdened. According to the 2013 income tax, this represents a relief for around 12 % of the debtors. The bill will thus have a positive impact on the economy, as it is expected to reduce the tax burden on personal income, which is particularly important in terms of the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment compared to the international environment. The reduction in the tax margin will be the largest among the most productive groups in the workforce, which will also have a direct impact on the growth of the economy. The proposal for a law also means burdening the population and indirectly increasing economic growth. It should be noted, however, that the amendments have been proposed for two years in order to prepare a comprehensive tax reform that will reduce labour taxation and increase property taxation. The Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u19	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representative of the government! Allow me to briefly present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Public Finance Balance Act. In opening, let me say that we will, of course, unanimously support this proposal of the Law in the Desus Group. Sometime before summer, we were informed in June that proposals were being made that the finance ministry did not intend to extend the legislation in force or in some way abolish the highest income class. Measures in the field of tax change, not to say tax reform, have started with the introduction of so-called tax repositories. A number of innovations in fiscal and financial policy have come together, including the unsuccessful so-called mini tax reform package. However, none of the proposed amendments to the law, none of the novelties, contained a provision which would extend the validity of the 4th grade even in the following year. Such a scenario would also have happened if the Members and Members of the Desus Group had not reacted immediately at the outset, not to say the first ball, and all through a clear and loud insistence on what we have achieved by amending the existing law. This is that the 4th grade is maintained even in the following year without a pardon. In the Desus Group, we are great advocates of this measure, of course we support it loud and clear, without which we cannot imagine a step forward in the process of designing and adopting tax reform. We believe that it is only fair that those who earn the most during the years also contribute relatively more to the state treasury or are duly taxed. Surely it is not right that, as the ever-increasing part of the burden falls on the shoulders of those who are the weakest, most vulnerable. It is only by the fact that the so - called middle class, the middle class, is disappearing more and more, whether we want to admit it or not. Without the highest income class, however, it is our view that the purchasing power of the population would continue to be hampered and, consequently, the economy would walk. It may seem reasonable to someone to relieve the paying of certain taxes of highly qualified personnel, but it is unacceptable for Desus to do so at the cost of pressure on the weakest to the most vulnerable. Especially because we believe that it is necessary to ensure that all highly qualified, especially young people, receive adequate services after completion of their education. At the same time, we reiterate the position that we are still standing firm, and this is that we support an equal distribution of the tax burden among all. We also assess in our Group that there will be a need to reconsider, based on analyses and serious reflection, the change in the overall structure of the income scale, not just on a temporary basis, but on a fair reallocation of the boundaries between the individual income class, which will still have to be discussed and decided in the end. At the moment, the most important thing for us in the Desus Group is that the 4th grade is maintained in the way that it has been applied so far. In addition, according to the current calculations, we will reduce tax liabilities for the circus by 12% of the taxpayers between the 2nd and 3rd grades. The annual savings for an individual debtor will be around €200, which we believe in the Desus Group that there is not even such a negligible share or height in today's times and conditions. At the same time, let us remember that the novel will have no negative consequences, no effects on the state budget, which is an important fact because of the common objective – the balance of public finances. Let me also recall that if the Desus Group did not take such a strong and ambitious commitment to preserve that measure, this would mean a fall in revenues of around 16 million euros per year, which, of course, we cannot afford. To conclude, the contribution to the unloading of the middle layer, the middle classes of the population and the preservation of the fourth income class, which means a fairer or fairer tax burden, are the main reasons why Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will unanimously support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u21	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, in which we will support the Act on Complementing the Law on Public Finance Balance, as it retains the 4th Income Class, which was also one of our basic requirements for the adoption of the budget for 2016 and 2017. The 4th Income Class includes those who receive or have an income base of more than €70,000 per year, representing approximately seven Slovenian average wages. There are about 3 000 400 such commitments in Slovenia, and the measure, of course, means annual revenue in the budget of €16 million. Indeed, it would be extremely unfair for the real tax burden to be experienced by those who make the most of it, and we have warned about it all the time. The law also brings simultaneous relief, about 122 000 taxpayers whose annual income base is more than €18,000. So, the funds collected by taxing the richest are allocated to those who belong to the upper middle class and are burdened. This is also welcome from our point of view, but we are aware that such a tax measure is far from the final objective. In fact, we need to know that in a very broad 3rd grade or in a class that is taxed at a 41% tax rate, in fact, all those who receive income slightly more than the average Slovenian salary mean that they are trying to cover exactly all the obligations they have in their lives and are not included in any transfers or social assistance. Therefore, even in this case, in this tax rate, which will be slightly more burdensome, this is welcome, but it is still significantly too low, so of course we have recently placed in public treatment our starting points for the reform of the tax system, which would, of course, be significantly more burdensome for the mediocre income class, and this is the class that is certainly the most burdensome one at this point. And we would like to see that, in this period of public debate, there are common positions on this proposal, which could certainly create a very clear economic, business and tax environment, which is certainly also very important for planning economic growth, reorganising production in Slovenia and finally acquiring potential investors. But all of this is what Slovenia certainly needs during this period, and not least is it able to do all these things, as our exporters also prove, and this also proves our economic growth, which is far higher than in other Eurogroup Member States. Adding to this the potential, which is certainly also in the middle class, is certainly even more important than is available today. So we will support the law itself because it retains the 4th grade of income and brings relief to at least a small part of those who are currently above our very low average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u23	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again! As I said before, when the so-called mini-tax reform fell, it seemed that the fourth income class would fall with it. Therefore, we have decided with unrelated Members to introduce a new Income Act, which would maintain the fourth income class, bringing an additional €16 million into the budget. Given that 2016 will be the year of the largest so-called structural or fiscal effort, i.e., the Ministry of Finance and the Government have committed to reducing the structural deficit by as much as 0.6 percentage points, we were confident that the government of our proposal, which would bring additional funds to the budget, would not reject it. But we were wrong again. The government coalition has drawn up its proposal to regulate the same matter, but it is about changing the ZUJF, which differs from ours in the fact that not only does it keep the fourth income class, but in the same swing, the collected money transfers between 12% of the best-paid people in this country. It argues, however, that it will increase the competitiveness of this country and prevent the brain from escaping, but neither holds nor holds. Competitiveness will not increase, as the gross wage costs for employers remain exactly the same as they are, and it will not prevent the brain from escaping, because the 12% of the best paid will be calculated after the 17-euro circus per month of tax gift, which I find difficult to believe is the reason for whom he is willing to emigrate to stay in Slovenia. Even if we look at the structure of those who are leaving the country, they are usually either indignant or unemployed, not people with the best wages in this country. On the other hand, the government is denying aid to the poorest, for example, 16 million euros, as we have already warned when the budget is adopted, would be enough to raise the minimum income to 308 euros. So we'd pick him up. This is the amount promised by the Ministry of Labour in 2009, 6 years ago, when the minimum wage was even 100 euros lower than it is now, and when poverty has not been as severe for the population in Slovenia as it is today. That is why today such a decisive measure would be necessary, which would at least try to deal with the problem of 300,000 poor fellow citizens and the fellow citizens we have, but the government prefers to redistribute this money between 12% of the best paid. This is about the middle class, but again, the middle class is not the right label for what we are talking about today, we are talking about 12% of the best-paid people. This isn't middle school. The middle class is another thing, and once again I stress that for a socially oriented government, even in such times, it should be crystal clear that the poorest have paid for the crisis and that those who have lost their jobs have paid the crisis and that pensioners who are lowering their pensions have paid the crisis and that all those who live below the poverty threshold have paid for the crisis. And they should be targeted by any redistributive measures, rather than allowing the money that we collect at the best paid for three rounds to be allocated to 10% of the best paid. If this was a recipe for development, which the Government is offering us today, Slovenia would have experienced after 2005 and 2006 developments, because since then we have been giving numerous gifts to capital and the most powerful, the profit tax has been reduced from 25 to 17%, there has been twice a reduction in the progress of the tax scale, but the result of these policies has not been the boom of the country, there has been no other Switzerland, there has been no lighthouse of Europe, but there has been a loss of a decade. And when, if not now, is it time to start thinking about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u25	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues! Lower taxes, and within this lower tax or lower labour burden, are one of the basic starting points of the socio-market economy, which is based on the adoption of the New Slovenia economic programme – Christian Democrats. If we compare the taxation of labour within the comparable European Union countries, we find that Slovenia has much more work taxed than most economically successful countries, such as Germany, as well as neighbouring countries, Austria, Italy and Croatia. The tax burden on work should be one of the priorities of the current government in order to ensure an adequate business environment for the economy and its competitiveness on the one hand, and on the other hand to prevent the growing trend of brain drain abroad, which we have been facing for several consecutive years. The tax burden, as proposed by the Government in the Proposal for Amendments and the Complementation of the Public Finance Balance Act, and we are dealing with it today, represents only a minor correction and does not in fact constitute any significant contribution to the tax burden of work. Again we have a case of just some cosmetic correction, just some cosmetic correction, that is, makeup that is short-lived. We need more action in this area, and we are also reminded of it by the European Commission. According to the legislation in force, our tax classes are very narrow, which is why, in particular, middle-income taxpayers are much more taxed than in most other countries of the European Union, where tax classes are wider and tax rates are much lower. We have therefore tabled an amendment in Novi Slovenije with a new income scale with extended income classes. This would result in a more sensitive middle-class tax burden, most of which includes those with one to two average salaries. It would also eliminate the highest, 50% tax grade, which was introduced in the ZUJF only as a temporary, kind of anti-crisis tax. The increased revenue inflows to the state budget due to increased employment and value added tax in increased consumption would, in our opinion, cover the projected reduction in budgetary revenues due to the revised income scale. Unfortunately, the coalition has rejected our amendment. Let us also draw attention to the OECD annual reports, which show that the tax mark for the middle class in Slovenia is among the highest in the OECD countries. They recommend lower wage burdens, which will encourage employment, the share of active workers and also investment in knowledge. It will also encourage consumption, which is an important lever of economic growth. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats of today's Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Balance of Public Finance will not be supported. We need not temporary but permanent and systemic changes in income, with the temporary solutions that the Government has used in this bill, to postpone the necessary and necessary tax reforms and not to provide the necessary stable and favourable business environment for the economy, particularly for new foreign investments. According to this indicator, we belong to a tail scale between European countries and we regret that the Government has just come to terms with this situation. This is a measure that will apply until the end of 2017, as it will be after this year, we do not know. And this is a school example of how we shouldn't work in a tax environment. This measure actually contributes to an unstable environment. However, how should foreign investors then decide to invest in the Republic of Slovenia? As we say, we need fundamental structural reforms, which Mrs Violeta Bulc, Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia, finally invited us on Friday. I hope someone heard her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u27	The text shall be given by the Members of the Parliament of the unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u28	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Finance Balance. ZUJF, the so-called ZUJF, which was adopted as an intervention law in 2012, and we probably all remember that there have been many, many criticisms in public. He reached out to 39 different laws. Some interventions constitute permanent measures, while others were temporary in nature, linked to economic activity and the state of public finances. One of the more radical and, in my opinion, the wrong ones were the reduction of pensions, and that was also up to 25%, with the help of a party that always fights for pensioners. Of course, right after the government took over, we corrected that mistake. We also recall the response that this law received, even though the economic situation at the time of its adoption was incomparably worse than it is today. I objected to him as a Member of Parliament myself, he is admiring or, above all, because of the manner in which he was accepted. Intervention into such a large number of laws certainly undermines the transparency of legislation, in addition to the fact that the law, although interventional, contains temporary and permanent measures. But let's leave it at 2012, probably none of us want a repeat of the situation at the time. Today, the current government boasts economic growth, the trend of reducing the number of unemployed, the calming of passion among different stakeholders and so on. So, according to the government, there is no way that there is a situation that calls for swift and radical decisions, but today we are dealing with the ZUJF again. The answer to my repeatedly asked question is why the ZUJF and not the system law, which is what the Income Act in this case is, I have not received. Along with the United Left and the Income Act, which was invested, we wanted to sort out exactly the same things, identical solutions. Unfortunately, however, the ruling coalition voted by force. There's something else I'd like to point out. This is a procedure for the adoption of this law, an emergency procedure. The extension of the fourth income class – with which we have no problem at all – somehow we cannot place it in conditions that determine the urgency of the state security procedure, the defence of the state, the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters or the prevention of irreparable consequences for the country. Somehow, according to our assessment of these reasons, this law before us does not address it. Moreover, the financial effects on the state budget will not be, but will not be. It is also said that this is one of the additional reasons that there is no financial impact in fact and no major implications for the country and the state budget. But the government and the coalition obviously feel that the conditions requiring the adoption of this law are such that the only right thing to do is to take it in accordance with the urgent procedure. The change in the system law that we have introduced into the procedure, as has already been said, along with the United Left, has been totally rejected. And as inappropriate as that is, you know. The Public Finance Balance Act seemed more appropriate to you, colleagues and colleagues, despite the fact that our country was no longer in crisis, it was supposed to be no longer in financial distress, but the ZUJF, adopted as an intervention measure, extremely fast, which changed 39 laws, is being extended. From now on, dear colleagues, this ZUJF is your law, the law of SMC, Desus and SD. Once again, I would like to say that we are not opposed to substantive solutions, but we are opposed to the fact that things are not resolved in systemic laws, but in laws that do not belong to them. That's why the three of us won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u29	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection by Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u30	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The implementation of the compulsory State Economic Service for the measurement, inspection and cleaning of combustion plants, smoke pipes and air ducts for the protection of the environment and the efficient use of energy, human health and fire protection was regulated by the Environmental Protection Act adopted in 2004 and its regulations. Article 148 of the Environmental Protection Act provides that it is dated 7. 5. 2004 this economic public service, which is no longer a local public service. On the basis of this legal arrangement and in accordance with it, it was 25. 11. The 2004 Regulation adopted on the manner, subject and conditions for the implementation of the compulsory State Economic Service for the conduct of measurements, inspection and cleaning of combustion plants, smoke ducts and air ducts for the protection of the environment and for the effective use of energy, human health and fire protection, which lays down, in accordance with the Law on Economic Services, the manner in which this public service is carried out in the form of a concession within which the operator acquires exclusive rights for each chimney area. In the Republic of Slovenia, concessions and concession contracts have been awarded to all chimney areas in accordance with the law and regulations in force and can only be withdrawn in isolated cases if infringements or other grounds for withdrawal or withdrawal of concession contracts are proven. The concession is awarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the concession contract is concluded by the Minister responsible for the protection of the environment under the authority of the Government. With the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act, the current arrangements for the implementation of chimney control services are maintained until only 31. 12. 2015, when it ceases to be a compulsory national economic service, if they do not adopt these amendments to the Environmental Protection Act in accordance with the urgency procedure. This means that without the implementation of the new system of this service, they would be left to the market after that date. However, the Ministry and the Government consider that, in order to ensure the public interest expressed in the protection of the environment and property of people, fire safety and the energy efficiency of small combustion plants, the provision of chimney services cannot be left to the market, but it is also necessary to regulate this area in the future. At the Ministry of Environment and Space this year, we have presented an ideal framework for the new regulation of the provision of chimney services at a number of meetings since March. We also held a public debate during the summer months, but we have not adopted or confirmed definitive solutions in the Government. We have prepared a law on chimney services, forwarded it to the government by emergency procedure, and then, due to some difficulties, we have proposed that this law on chimney services be adopted on a regular basis. In the proposed law, which is currently on the table, we extend the transitional regime by one year in order to keep the chimney services regulated in 2016. The proposed law does not change the basic principles of the current law. The persons covered by the proposal for a law, such as concessionaires, shall perform the chimney service until the conclusion of a new concession contract or annex to the extension contract, provided that they submit a request for the extension of the validity of the concession contract within the period provided for in the provision, which shall be until 15 January 2016. These are cases of concessionaires whose concessionary relationship for the performance of the compulsory public economic service ceases before the deadline set, i.e. before 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The second paragraph provides that, in order to avoid empty concession areas, those concession areas where there are no concessionaires with a valid concession contract at the date of 31. 12. In 2015, the provisions of Article 92, paragraph 9, of the Act apply to the granting by the Government, on the basis of a public appeal, of a concession to another person who fulfils the conditions laid down and who is not subject to the procedure for withdrawal of the concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u31	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary and Secretary! The Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space is held at its 27th emergency meeting, on 11. 12. 2015 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Legislative and Legal Services, the Economic Chambers of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises of Slovenia, the Section of Diminaries and Civil Initiatives, Dimnik and the Society of Civil Initiatives Malečnik, the Union of Environmental Movements, the Union of Free Trade Unions and the Court of Auditors. In addition to the draft law, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and the Magi area shall, on behalf of the applicant, be the State Secretary. Tanja Bogataj pointed out that the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, which was adopted in 2013, provided that until then the arrangements for the implementation of the chimney service should be maintained only until 31. 12. 2015, when it is intended to cease to be a compulsory State economic service. As a result, this would mean that without the implementation of the new chimney service system, the market will be abandoned after that date. It pointed out that, in the opinion of the competent ministry, in order to ensure public interest expressed in the protection of the environment and property of people, fire safety and the energy efficiency of small combustion plants, the provision of chimney services should not be left to the market entirely, but that regulation of this area is also necessary in the future. For this reason, the proposed law provides for an amendment to Article 92 of the Environmental Protection Act 1F, which will extend the transitional regime and maintain the regulation of chimney services for a further year. It has also been pointed out that the competent ministry is actively involved in the preparation of a new system regime for the implementation of chimney services. Thus, in 2015 a new framework of governance was already presented in a number of consultations and a public debate was held, but final solutions have not yet been adopted. The submission of a system law on chimney services is foreseen in 2016. Until then, the proposer proposes to extend the existing regime. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law from the point of view of their competence. The representative of this service pointed out in particular that some of the uncertainties in the regime of the transition to a new time frame for the implementation of the economic public service were raised in the opinion under the rules so far that the current operators of this public service could be in different situations, which they considered should also be taken into account in determining the transition to a new regime, which would also protect potential acquired rights arising from existing concession contracts. Mr Verbič, President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, pointed out in his presentation that the Commission supports the bill and also supports the intention of the Ministry of State not to extend concessions to existing concessionaires who do not meet the legal conditions. In the debate, some opposition Members stressed that the adoption of the ZVO 1F, which provided for the cessation of the operation of the chimney service as a compulsory State economic service, created a condition for the full liberalisation of the market for chimney services, which is intended to prevent and extend the existing concession system by the end of 2016. In their view, however, the concession system has proved to be weak as, among other things, the competent ministry has not yet been able to establish a record of the combustion plants, resulting in the absence of conditions for effective control of the operation of the chimney service in individual chimney areas. As appropriate, they also referred to price fixing or the setting of a tariff system for chimney services. In their discussions, the representatives of the All-Slovenian Civil Initiative Dimnik and the Civil Initiative Society Malečnik also took a similar position, which highlighted the view that the free choice of chimney services on the market is the constitutional right of individuals or owners of combustion plants. It is also critical to assess the fact that the competent ministry at the time of the adoption of the PSC 1F failed to draw up a system law which should, in particular, exercise the right to free choice of operators. On the other hand, the coalition MPs supported the bill. Similar opinions were expressed by representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Section of chimneys, the Union of Environmental Movements and the Union of Free Trade Unions. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted two amendments to the draft law and also voted on the substantive decisions of the opposition Members, which did not receive the majority support of the members and members of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u33	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with co-worker, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are considering a proposal for a new Law on the Protection of the Environment, whose main objective is to temporarily extend the existing arrangements for the implementation of the mandatory national economic public smoker service. The amendment of Article 92 of the current law thus prolongs the transitional regime for one year in order to keep the chimney services regulated. In one year, the Ministry will draw up a final proposal for a law on chimney services, which will also maintain the regulation of the chimney service. In the Desus Group, we ask why we are actually dealing with this novel today, if we know that already in 2013 Minister Židan, in his role as Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, has announced the transition of the chimney service to the market system after many warnings and protests from different civil initiatives. At that time, the President of the SD claimed that from 1 January 2016 on, the system of carrying out chimney activity would be set up in such a way as to enable every citizen of the chimney to choose for himself. This is what the European Union is asking us to do, and besides the free movement of people and goods, it also advocates the free movement of services. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we are very surprised that certain lobbies are so powerful and powerful that the SD party has changed its mind and is no longer a licensee. Also, the SD Party has not yet received any concrete proposal on how to arrange for the protection of health and the environment for the chimney service not to be transferred to the free market, which would sooner than later not only be punishable by the European Union for non-compliance with environmental obligations to be respected by the Republic of Slovenia, but also due to unmaintained combustion plants and chimneys, perhaps even death victims. A similar effect is evident from the chimney lobby on the SMC's largest coalition party, who at the last moment refused support for the proposal of the Smoker Services Act, which forced the Ministry of Health and Environment to extend the concessions for another year. The concessionaires are even so powerful that they also hired one of the more well-known lawyers in our country that they wrote the opinion they paid, so that concessions must of course remain. It is logical for concessionaires to oppose licences because they are aware that many of them have not done their work as they should, so the users will replace them on the first occasion. They have already fallen in the management of the most basic task imposed on them by the concession contract, namely the recording of data on the users of the compulsory public economic service in the EviDim record, which is completed up to half. The current concessionaires receive a huge number of readings from users of chimney services. The Ministry is well aware of this and is therefore seeking the best possible solution for regulating the chimney service, which will maintain mandatory inspections of chimneys and combustion plants while allowing free choice of chimneys and maintaining control over their work. The Environment Ministry has been working to find some compromise throughout this year among all opponents of concessions, licences and the free market and, of course, adequate supervision. Finally, it turned out that no one has a better proposal than licenses that would open up the possibility for users to choose chimneys regardless of the area in which they live. Therefore, if we are to prevent a free market in the area of chimney services, we regret to adopt this proposal for a law before us. With this, we will give the Ministry time to draw up a proposal for a law that will compromise between concession supporters and their opponents. Meanwhile, we can only hope that concessionaires will not take further advantage of the lack of control over their work at this time. Members and Members of the Desus Group will unfortunately be forced to support the bill, as I said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u36	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a new law dealing with an extremely important area affecting three fundamental stories, namely the issue of fire safety, the issue of environmental protection, clean air and human health, and the question of how to ensure an adequate user experience in an area of public interest and public service and, on the other hand, something that exists as a market interest in the market. The Ministry had an extremely ungrateful task because it had, of course, been in the field of many interests when preparing solutions to regulate the area. In particular, the interests of those who offer the services and the interests of those who benefit them, i.e. users. In many respects, the diametric opposite is the position of one another and, of course, of course, we run into the views of naturalists, firefighters and those who have to ensure public safety and order. It is therefore important that the Ministry has devoted much time to the preparation of the new solutions and that when preparing the solutions proposed, it has found in good time that it takes more time for an integrated and effective solution. That is why today we are renewing the existing situation so that we can gain time, arguments and solutions that will allow us not to have a repeat of the story that often happens to us under different laws in this national assembly. This is to correct them when we find that certain proposed solutions are wrong, impossible or not being implemented as was desired or intended in the idea. The Social Democrats will support the proposal. We will also continue to participate in the search for a constructive regime in this area. However, we expect that the pressure on all parliamentary groups, we also believe in the ministry, from different stakeholders, whether it is concessionaires or users, will be reduced, so that an corrective proposal can be drawn up on one side of the Ministry and, on the other hand, a debate can be held in the National Assembly without an accusation on the basis of arguments and with a European comparable solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Although we only got it now, so to speak, 5 before 12, in the Joint Left Group we welcome the proposal for the novel Environmental Protection Act. Why 5 before 12? Since one of the previous amendments to this Act, specifically the one in 2013, has provided that the current regulation in the field of chimney services only applies until the end of this year. In July this year, the Government published a proposal for a bill on chimney services on the e-government side, which is expected to replace the current concession regime with the licensing system with the beginning of the following year. However, since the Government has withdrawn the proposal for a new roof law from the parliamentary hearing, it has threatened us, in fact, if we do not accept this amendment, it still threatens to have chaos in the area of chimney services as of 1 January 2016. This is not the time to discuss whether it is better to continue to develop concession arrangements or maybe replace them with a licensing system. We had a large part of this year, and we will obviously have a large part of this next year. And that's exactly the main problem I'd like to talk to you about today. The Ministry of Environment and Space presented the idea concept of the proposal for a law on chimney services as early as March this year. Since the beginning of the public debate, it has been clear that a large, even majority of the interested public opposes it. More. A number of legal, substantive and implementing problems were identified in the bill. However, there were also indications that he was unconstitutional. However, after more than half a year of negative responses, the Ministry has not made serious efforts to put an end to the problems of the bill and insist on its end. And here lies the main doctrine of the entire debacle. The Ministry of this Law on Environmental Protection has not tabled a parliamentary hearing because it wants to obtain an additional year for public debate. No, no, no. The Ministry has tabled an amendment to the parliamentary hearing because it had to withdraw its proposal for a law on chimney services from it. However, it had to be withdrawn because of all the opposition I have mentioned, because of its lack of alignment with the interested public, and in particular because of its own misunderstanding of what the public debate is for. If it does not learn from all this that the public debate is not only about presenting its proposals to the public concerned, but also about listening actively, the exchange of ideas and arguments that should improve the original proposal is another year lost for the area of chimney services. And that's not any other area. It is an area that is essential to public interest. This is not just about heating, but also about safety and the environment, such as ensuring fire safety, efficient energy use and air quality, and preventing carbon monoxide poisoning and environmental burdens with emissions. The current regulation of this area is not satisfactory, we all know that. Therefore, for this new Law on Environmental Protection in the Group of the United Left, we can only vote with compressed teeth. But we also vote for it in the hope that the ministry from its past mistakes is still able to learn and will use the additional year to produce a better and more life-form law on chimney services in cooperation with the public concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u40	Havela beautiful, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! In the case of the previous agenda item, or in the case of the previous law, only a temporary measure, with a duration of 2 years, at this point in the agenda, shall again be a provisional measure, with a period of one year. Initially, I must say that I am grateful to my colleague Ivan Hršk, that he has presented very rightly to the Slovenian public that there has been a great ravas within the coalition in this law, and I believe that it has not been easy for the Minister and that it is not easy for her and that I have to take her to the defence in some way, although I will continue to be very critical of the government and also of the Ministry. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for today's amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection is a mockery of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which still does not know how to regulate the area of chimney services. This activity would continue to be fully regulated or possibly leave some services to the market. First, it prepares a proposal that is so incomplete and unprofessional that it is broken down even by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's own legal service and then delays until the last moment when it can extend the current organisation of this activity. The current arrangements for the implementation of chimney services shall expire 31. 12. 2015, so in 16 days, when it will cease to be a compulsory state economic service. This means that without the implementation of the new system of this service, the market would be left to the market after that date. Since the Ministry of the Environment and the Area of Final Solutions, despite the long-standing public debate process, has not yet been adopted, the amendment proposes a temporary extension for one year, i.e. until Silvestre 2016. At that time, the Ministry of Environment and Space will have to extend more than 150 concession contracts and issue decisions and annexes in addition to the new proposal for a smoker service law. And the Ministry will be able to do that? We have a feeling that at the end of the year we will be again before the same decision, because the ILO has had enough time to draft a law that is truly in the public interest of environmental protection, fire safety, human health safety and rational use of energy in the use of small combustion plants. We cannot go beyond the fact that the number of fires is rising dramatically, especially in wintertime, and that, from the point of view of fire safety, we should have a law before us today, which would also mean preventive and not merely curative action. However, neither the Ministry has been able to establish records of the combustion plants and chimney services, which makes it impossible to effectively control the operation of the chimney service. Since chimney activity is highly associated with fire safety, for which municipalities or mayors are responsible at the local level, this area requires a much more active approach than our government shows. In Novi Slovenije we are convinced that it is exclusively a matter of playing and manipulating the principle of public interest to which the ILO, as a candidate, refers. If the public interest were actually their leader, then we would not waste so much time preparing a new law to regulate this area in an integrated manner. This year alone, the government has already proposed twice the amendment of the law, both for an urgent reason. Once in a while, for reasons of failure to comply with Slovenia's obligations under the Directive on the Comprehensive Prevention and Control of Pollution from the Environment and for the second time at the November regular meeting of the National Assembly, when it attempted to provide concessions for water use to the Water Fund, at the expense of the municipalities, of course. Despite numerous calls from professions, civil initiatives and other stakeholders to close concessions in this area at the end of this year and the need to adopt all necessary acts to fully regulate the implementation of the chimney activity, the ILO has not followed these demands and needs of time. However, we would like to arrange chimney services by granting concessions, i.e. by national regulation, or by leaving the market, we could do so by the end of this year. Today, Members should have a proposal on the table for a new law and not just a proposal for an emergency exit, that is to extend the concessions, in other words, to extend the situation that no one is responding to. In the light of the proposal in New Slovenia, we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Your Honor! For some time now, the regulation of chimney services has raised a lot of dust. The 2013 Novela designated the compulsory public economic service only until the end of this year. As of 2016, however, the State should determine what different arrangements or services it would leave to the market and thus risk deterioration of fire safety, air quality and so on. There are certainly reasons for State intervention. And what exactly is the problem? If we look at the grave, we have at least three groups in this case. The first group is represented by dissatisfied to extremely dissatisfied users, while the second group is satisfied with very satisfied service providers, of course, with concessions. These two groups are on completely opposite shores. Some want more words when hiring services, prices and the like, others want the situation as it is now. And if we can understand the first two groups where everyone wants their best, the third group is the hardest to describe. This is a country which notes that the group is right, the one that is dissatisfied, in many ways is right. Therefore, it cannot be denied that the system has proved to be flawed. Regrettably, the Ministry has not established a record of the combustion plants, and consequently does not have the conditions for effective control of the operation of the chimney service in individual chimney areas. Price-setting or setting of the tariff system of chimneys has proved problematic and inadequate. And the price of services is the one that in users raises the most dust.This is the price in connection with the service or value of the service provided. If we can understand the first two groups and the third groups represented by the government or the competent ministry, we cannot possibly understand. On 19 October this year, the Minister replied to Mrs Violete Tomić's question, saying: "The bill is ready and we are not prepared to introduce any novelties of the Environmental Protection Act, which would prolong the validity of the existing regulation." End of quote. Two months ago, therefore, we were not prepared to extend the existing arrangements, and last week, the State Secretary said at a meeting of the Committee that the competent ministry was actively involved in the preparation of a new system for the provision of chimney services. Public debate was also held in this light, but no definitive solutions have yet been adopted. The system law is thus to be prepared and adopted in 2016. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that the statements made by the Minister and the Secretary of State are in total contradiction, as the Minister said two months ago that the law is already ready and that we will not extend the existing regime, and the Secretary of State said a few days ago that there is no decision and no law. And the systemic solutions that mark this government's decision are once again postponed for at least one year. Members and Members of the group of unrelated Members are reminded again of the government's inoperability. We make decisions in a way that prevents irreparable consequences. And here we agree with the Minister, fire safety and health, and air quality must by no means be questionable simply because the Government cannot or can decide. It also means taking decisions and taking decisions to defend them. That's how it is in life and also in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u44	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Once again, a nice hello, respectable colleagues and colleagues! With the applicable Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, the current regulations on the management of chimneys services as a mandatory public economic service shall be maintained until 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act represents only a temporary transitional one-year scheme of the chimney service and prolongs the existing regime for the period up to 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The implementation of the law provides for the issuance of new decisions and the conclusion of concession contracts with already existing service providers. The Ministry of Environment and Space has, since March 2015, moved in a number of consultations the idea framework for the new regulation of the provision of chimney services, but despite many attempts to coordinate, no final solution has yet been adopted. The transitional period will allow for additional time for appropriate harmonisation of the law proposal with all stakeholders and additions in accordance with possible compromises. According to the assessment of the SMC Group, the provision of chimney services cannot be left to the market in order to ensure public interest. Today we have heard a lot about whether these services should be marketed or non-marketable, but also in this part we have stakeholders who are actually advocating that chimney services are completely left to the will of users and owners of combustion plants, and those who say that actually market service means that everyone can order their chimneys, but that they must do so, as required by the law. In the SMC Group, we therefore believe that the inspection and cleaning of combustion plants and other chimneys services must still be compulsory, due to the protection of the environment, property, human health, in short, due to public interest. So far, the regulation of chimney services, including the SMC, has not been good, as it has not followed the development of heating technology, and some services have therefore been provided needlessly and too often all at the expense of users, most of whom have invested in modern and cleaner combustion and heating plants. These are those who do not require as much cleaning as was actually done. At the 27th urgent meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space with amendments to the coalition, the proposal for the Legislative and Legal Service was supplemented by proposals, supported by the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Despite the fact that the regulation that has been extended so far is not optimal, the proposal for a law represents only a temporary arrangement for the implementation of the chimney service. As we have already heard today, the final proposal proposed by the Ministry in the coming year will be more than obviously a gruesome debate. I believe that there will still be those who, no matter what kind of marriage, will not be satisfied with the marriage. It is obvious that each of the stakeholders is very close to each other in this regard, but we must reach the highest possible compromise in the drafting of this law, which we will have here next year on the bench. With the previous bill, the Ministry has already shown that it is putting great effort into this, and I believe that we will also be able to achieve this in the coming year, in order to have a good and quality law supported by the largest group of people and stakeholders in this area. The SMC Group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled and to the article. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Franz Jursha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u46	Vice President, thank you for your word. I have already said at the College of the President of the National Assembly that I will also speak at the parliamentary session of today's meeting of the National Assembly on the content of my views, on this matter. I must also say, for starters, that I, in my first term, also sat in the home work body, which was called the Committee on Environment and Space. I must say that we have actually met with such similar content since then. But I'm sure it didn't start just when I came to the National Assembly, but it did. The main thing is that things happen all the time. Now I would like to refresh individuals' memory. As you know, I think that prior to 2004, concessions were shared by local communities, and then they took over at the Ministry of Environment and Space. At the time of the award of concessions, if I say first to the local community, it is said that when they shared local community concessions, they are domestic, real private chimney companies, espies, family companies were getting jobs, concessions to carry out these tasks in the local environment. Then it happens when this service comes to a state level, that it is easy and easy to get these concessions from companies. These companies were around 4.5 companies, which were mainly awarded concessions on the basis of some data which were not correct, and in some ways cut off the possibility that the concession in local communities is carried out by family companies or chimneys. Then came the great dissatisfaction of individuals or of these smaller espouses or entrepreneurs. Since then, in public and even in this house, we have continued to have comments at the expense of the operation of the chimney service. I'm not going to talk about reforming this law, about environmental protection, but I'm going to talk about chimney service. But we all know what's in the chimney service. If we evaluate how this solution would be best. You know, we've all talked about it in our views about how it's not right, how the ministry didn't prepare well. None of the representatives of the parliamentary groups said how to resolve the matter. None. Of those who presented this, we have not received any concrete and good proposal; the Ministry of the Environment and Space in the Future could, as it said this year, have also drawn up this law. I fear that this same matter will happen again in one year's time. We have four options. No more options, no more four options. One option is to grant concessions, the other option is free market, then the third option is licenses, in concessions, eventually leave it to the local community again or to share it with the state. This is said to be four variants with three options: licences, free market and concessions. Now you tell me how we can do things better than the current bill. I have to admit, I myself have been in some way in doubt, especially because I have evaluated myself, that there may not be a good record, and that some individuals, you know, in these difficult times, are giving up something and might also give up on someone to come and clean the chimney. And in order to carry out all those mandatory controls that we have to do, just so he doesn't have to settle this cost. Mostly, this thought was with me. But in the end, when the matter is analyzed, I found in fact that this is probably the most optimal solution for the future regulation of the chimney service in the Slovenian space. Now around the stories that took place at the time the Ministry prepared this matter. I must say that this house has brought together different stakeholders who have come with eminent legal experts. And I'm sure that this doubt we've raised is also real. Even in our parliamentary group, these interested groups have been with legal experts, but, of course, given that this has prepared the ministry from our quota, we have not inherited it. It is true, however, that until the last, the coalition groups did not know how to resolve the matter. They didn't know and they didn't make up their minds. The only ones we were determined to be in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Retired and we also supported the proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, remember the statement made by Minister of the Jewish Republic when he was Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, and you will probably be able to say or think differently in the SD Group. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] . I respect that you're thinking with your head and I hope that we're doing the same thing. I hope and I am sure, I hope and I am sure that we will find the most appropriate of these four solutions. Which is most appropriate of the four solutions, and let us leave the ones who will prepare the matter to those who will accept the matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Igor Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u48	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. I might point out a few things that I mentioned on the committee itself when we discussed this law. I believe that maybe we all don't even know what a demanding marriage this is. The regulation of chimney services in a completely different way than has been regulated so far will certainly be a tough nut. Look, this isn't gonna be easy. We Members have witnessed this year many opinions, warnings from one stakeholder group, other stakeholders. I, too, as President of the Infrastructure Committee, was aware of this from the outset and even called for a public presentation of opinions on this subject, which was very much visited. And we can only find that opinions are very different. From those who say each chimney should clean up, if he wants to order a chimney, he will be, if not, to those who say that the concession system, which means in some way for chimneys, let's say domestically, guaranteed business. And the proposal presented by the Minister or the Ministry is somewhere central. It is in this sense that no one has a guaranteed job to provide these services by means of a chimney licence and, on the other hand, requires users and owners of combustion plants to call smokers and make sure that the combustion plants, smoke water, clean. It is said that there is some security of property, safety of human health, in order to ensure not least certain standards for environmental protection. And, as I mentioned earlier, these positions were different, as far as the chimney system is concerned, they were very different, and I don't say even very radical. And I believe that no matter what the end of the marriage will be, we will still have some very zealous opponents of the law. However, I would like to point out that this is a very important, very difficult subject and that the ministry has actually done, given that it is a difficult marriage, because it is a completely new matter, that it has done everything and it is completely understandable that we have not been able to, I will say, harmonise ourselves during this period. The proposal to extend this regulation to date is fully understandable. Looks like there wasn't enough time. One year was too short a time to draft a law that would compromise all possible concerns and proposals for future regulation of these services. By extending the law, we only ensure that this care for cleaning devices remains mandatory. Another solution would be to let each person decide whether to call the chimney or not in February next year. I think it's dangerous that no one should agree to this. What I'm trying to say is that despite the fact that this is a period of up to 31. 12. 2016 that this law is practically ready to be brought into line with the concerns of the legislative service of the United Nations and that on our benches it will be essential as it should be or as some suggest, I believe that by the middle of next year this law will be on our benches and that it will be such that it will receive the support of the majority. Even now, I predict that there will certainly be zealous opponents and people, or Members, full of some ideas as to how it should be different. That's what's gonna happen, we know that. The debates on this law and this regulation of chimney activity are boisterous and will remain so. As far as these amendments are concerned, which we are also witnessing from the SDS Group, we will not support together. The adoption of these amendments would in fact mean that, as of 1 January 2016, it means a completely marketed activity, which means that no one needs to be cleaned up at home, and no one needs to try to call the chimneys, even if it is estimated, in short, everything is left to the will of the people. Most people are careful and care about their devices, but an accident occurs in that minority or some other. In short, if we have legal change in winter tyres for the sake of the safety and safety of others, I believe that we must also have legal mandatory cleaning of combustion plants, of course in a way that will be fair to the user, that this will not be reviewed at the time and on those devices when it is not necessary, but indeed when it is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is true that this amendment came to the table a very short time ago. We have studied it and I can say that the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. From what I hear, this amendment will also be supported by the Desus Group, from which the distinguished Minister comes, so it would be correct here and I would like to ask that Mrs Minister also define this amendment. See, two years ago, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, which provides that concession contracts concluded for the implementation of the compulsory State Economic Service prior to the entry into force of that novelty shall expire after 31 years. 12. They shall expire on 31 December 2015. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is how it shall be done on 31. 12. 2015, that is to say in 16 days, all concession contracts will expire. This is a novelty of 1. 1. 2016 opened the liberalisation of the market for chimney services. The proposed Law on Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection extends this period by 1 year, which means the continuation of the concession system for chimney services by the end of 2016. The proposed amendments, i.e. the SDS Group, are assessed and we join in this, that the Ministry of Environment and Space had sufficient time to draw up a law that would fully address the problem of chimney services, so we agree that Article 1 is deleted and chimney services are left to the free market. This does not, of course, mean that chimney services will not be monitored. There's no need to control them. In fact, in our parliamentary positions, we all said how important chimney fire safety services are in terms of environmental protection. Let me remind you of Paris a few days ago, you know what I mean. And here such an activity really needs to be closely monitored. If this amendment had been adopted, then the first article of the novel, which we are considering today, would in fact have somehow been free of the readings that are flying to the amendment of the law. These, however, are that chimney law is in grave breach of European Union law, that this legislation is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and is in grave violation of human rights, that it is contrary to other regulations in the Republic of Slovenia, that the concessions granted are largely illegal, that it has caused a number of corruption affairs, that it is highly suspected that the current chimney concession system is likely to even involve bribery by officials of the Ministry of Environment and Space and that it allows unnecessary costs for taxpayers. This is just a few reasons why the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. And I would really ask if, of course, the Minister wishes to express her position, her opinion on the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. She has a word, Minister Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. I would like to say that we do not agree with the amendments tabled. We are in favour of the view that the extension of the deadline by the end of the following year is ensured primarily for the reason that care remains for the clean environment, for human health, including for fire safety as a public smoker's task. At that time, we are looking together for such a record of the new chimney law, which will be approved in Parliament. I would like to say this because this record has already been mentioned several times today, EviDim. The fact is, with the concessions granted, not all concessionaires have been duly entered into this record. And to concessionaires who do not have this record fulfilled, we will now, on the basis of these articles, withdraw this concession. In particular, for this reason, we then imagine that this record would be completed by the end of the year and that the tasks that need to be carried out and for which, at least at a certain stage, it is appropriate that the public tasks to take care of them are also carried out in a way that is acceptable to all. Once again, the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of the proposed amendments do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one else wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments or amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today, as part of the half-hour vote after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the time of the day, this is to consider the proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance, the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Peter Pogačar, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u54	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which is before you, is extensive, although the amendments relate only to two but certainly very important sets. Changes in the occupational insurance regime and changes in the incentive arrangements for insured persons already eligible for retirement to remain active or to postpone their retirement. In the area of occupational insurance, the proposal of the law brings significant changes which constitute an upgrade to the system established by the last pension reform and which will allow professional insurance to actually serve its purpose, namely, the provision of occupational pensions to those workers who work in difficult and health-related jobs or work on works which, after a certain age, are not able to perform successfully. Changes in occupational insurance thus relate to the fixing of a occupational pension at the same amount as an old pension, establishing a basis for the revision of the list of jobs considered to be difficult and health-related and, above all, establishing within the Fund a system of solidarity provisions intended to offset surpluses and deficits between individual insurers, so as to enable the receipt of a professional pension to all those who fulfil the conditions. It is also important to mention new rules on the supervision of the involvement of workers in occupational insurance and the payment of contributions. Coordination between the social partners on these issues has been really long-standing, but we have managed to achieve coordination between the social partners in the area of professional insurance. However, the second set of amendments to the bill refers to the upgrading of the existing incentive scheme for insurers who already fulfil the conditions for retirement, but at least in part or in full would like to postpone their retirement, which is certainly in the interests of both the individual and the sustainability of our pension system. It is important to point out that in addressing this issue we have pursued the objective of equal treatment of all insurers, because let us not forget, from the perspective of the pension system, all individuals are, regardless of their status, employees, self-employed persons, farmers, insured persons or pensioners. It is important that the system treats all categories equally to the greatest extent possible, with as few exceptions as possible. This is exactly what the bill brings — equal treatment of all insured persons who meet the conditions for early or old retirement. The bill thus gives an opportunity for all those who meet the conditions under the rules to receive, in addition to their salaries, 20% of pensions in addition to their activities, while payments are no longer limited to 65 years of age compared to the current legislation. The pension reform in 2013 brought about a solution to partial retirement, i.e. for at least 4 hours a day, while at the same time eliminating the exception, which was precisely because there was no possibility of partial retirement, by independent entrepreneurs, so that they could maintain their activity under certain conditions while receiving pensions. The deadline for the harmonisation or termination of this exemption shall expire at the end of this year. The bill also places this group of insurers, which is currently an exception, in the same position as all other insurers, which will have to be included in insurance for at least two hours a day. With such a provision, we want to achieve equal treatment for all, not only among all categories of insurers, but also within the category of self-employed insurers. The proposal for a law aimed at maintaining the activities of insured persons also introduces changes in the arrangements for partial pensions and reactivation, for all insured or pensioners alike. The possibility of a more gradual retirement is introduced so that the insured or pensioner can remain active for only two or three hours a day or ten or fifteen hours a week. Dear Members and Members! In dealing with the question of the so-called double status, we were asked in the context of the social dialogue to set up an exception for a particular group of insurers, for independent entrepreneurs. Despite attempts to coordinate between the social partners precisely because of the exemption requirements for a particular group of insurers, unfortunately we have not been able to reach consensus. The Government considers that any exceptions to the individual category of insured persons must be the result of careful consideration, and in particular the consent of other insurers who, through the solidarity system, provide funds for their pensions. The government is thus proposing a solution that treats all insurers equally. On the basis of the above, I propose that you support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! At its 22nd emergency meeting, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that that provision should be dealt with in a simplified manner. We invited representatives of the Government, the Council of State, various state institutions, as well as a large number of representatives of the so-called civil society, to the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law from the point of view of its competence and highlighted some comments or concerns on a certain article of the regulation, which we have also taken into account with the amendments adopted. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented at the meeting by its Chairman, Mag. Peter Požun expressed or conveyed support for the proposed measures by that Commission, although representatives of the Chamber of Commerce expressed some concerns and disagreements with certain solutions to the draft law in the State Council. The representative of the applicant stressed that the most important changes to the law relate to occupational insurance arrangements and to the arrangements for the so-called dual status of insurers. The objective is to regulate double status for all insured persons who meet the conditions for retirement or early retirement in a manner that ensures equal treatment. All insured persons who meet the conditions for obtaining a pension have, with the possibility of applying payment of 20 per cent of an early or old retirement pension, a so-called double status already in place. This option will also be open to all who comply with the old rules and the payment will no longer be limited to only 65 years of age. He felt that it was reasonable to encourage all insured persons to persevere in insurance, including those who had already reached the age of 65 and who met the conditions for an old or early retirement pension, as they would continue to pay contributions and also receive 20 percent of their pension. The bill also introduces changes in the regulation of partial pensions and reactivation, which also in its own way allows for the so-called dual status or the maintenance of the status of the insured while at the same time providing a pensioner. The possibility is that the insured person or pensioner will remain active in the fulfilment of the conditions of retirement or remain in the insurance system for only two or more hours, not just that limit which has been set at four hours. The social partners agreed that the occupational insurance system should be recast and that the changes are largely consistent with them. Key novelties are: the revision of existing and the establishment of new occupational insurance jobs, the supervision of the inclusion in occupational insurance and the payment of professional insurance contributions, and the definition of occupational insurance rights. In this long report, which you have also received, it seems reasonable or important to point out the amendment to Article 9, which speaks of not losing the right to a pension to beneficiaries of a disability pension under this law to those persons, i.e. those with disabilities who are categorised as top athletes and who are employed in a state administration as athletes. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons voted first on the amendments. He adopted the coalition amendments as well as the recommendation of the Legal and Legislative Service, but not all amendments to the opposition, and finally voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report that you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor, he will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much again for your word. The Desus Group will, of course, fully support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The so-called pension reform entered into force in 2013. The results are already showing, and we are glad that this is so. If this fundamental reform has been directed towards ensuring equality between insurers or pensioners as regards the possibility of their continuing work, even when they have the possibility of retirement or retirement, then at least with such or even greater conviction, we can claim it for the law that we are considering or adopting today. This amendment and the amendment of the law are aimed at regulating the so-called dual status and partial pension institution in the event of partial reactivation for all insured persons who qualify for retirement in a way that ensures equal treatment for all – I stress the same treatment for all, without exception – by the same treatment both in terms of the category of insurance and in terms of the validity of the provision under which the pension requirement was met. This is the basic basis for these changes, which has always been and is the only one acceptable to the Desus or Desus Group. All insured persons, whether in the case of a work relationship, a self-employed activity, a social activity or an agricultural activity, have the possibility of applying 20 per cent of the pension if they remain in full insurance, so they are still working. The key novelty that we welcome in our party is that we no longer impose a time limit on the beneficiaries of this right, which has been possible until the age of 65. The bill also introduces changes in the regulation of a partial pension with a partial so-called reactivation, which also in its own way allows for the maintenance of the status of the insured while at the same time maintaining the pensioner's status. The possibility is introduced for the insured or pensioner to remain active for a period of two or three hours or, of course, more than 10 or 15 hours a week, and not less than as previously arranged, 4 hours a day or 20 hours a week. Such a proposal provides an even more flexible form of transition from work to full retirement. If I now expose those who have applied the exemption from the insurance after the ZPIZ-1 and who have already extended the deadline for the coordination of the double status twice, of course they will be able to continue to operate, but will have to be insured for at least two or more hours a day, while receiving a proportionate part of the pension or pension. Of course, this is at least one of the options offered by this law. They may choose any option of partial activation or full activation upon receipt of 20 per cent of the salary pension. However, I must point out once again that such arrangements ensure equal treatment not only between all categories of insurers but also within the category of self-employed insurers. Let me stress, it is not about any discrimination, it is not about taking any rights, it is not about privilege here, it is about equal treatment of all. In the Desus Group, we support, as we say, the proposal. In addition, let me say that we will not support the amendments of the opposition, because we believe that the incentive to receive 20 per cent of the pension for further work after meeting the conditions for retirement is sufficient in this respect that the insured person has paid contributions for 40 years, and that we also have such jobs on the one hand, when a person can easily continue to work and on the other hand we have people who, for whatever reason, can no longer do their work for any reason after the age being completed. Let me mention here construction workers, tradesmen, warehouse workers, miners, innkeepers, nurses, I could still count indefinitely, and this time would not allow me to make sense of it. That's why it's right that no one here will be deprived of all the same rights, all the same treatment, if you want, for all the same vats. This is what the social state requires, which is what the solidarity system of pension insurance requires, and if it does not, there will be no social state. If I touch very briefly on another part of this novel's substantive changes concerning occupational insurance and occupational pensions, we are pleased to note that they are also harmonised among the social partners and in our Polish group a renewed system [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u60	Just to wrap up the thought. In the Desus Group, however, there is no doubt that the renewed system is improving significantly. We are also pleased that this part has been aligned with all the social partners. As we say, Desus supports changes in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u62	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The most important amendments to the proposal of the Complementary Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, the implementation of which is envisaged by 1. 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 500000. In the professional insurance scheme, the complementary proposal of the law on the basis of the principle of solidarity also makes it possible for those insured persons who fulfil all the conditions for the exercise of the right to a professional pension, except for the condition of sufficient resources on the basis of solidarity reserves collected under the Compulsory Additional Pension Insurance Fund managed by the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company. A new amount of the lowest and highest professional pension is also established, the Fund for the payment of occupational pensions is hereby abolished, as the Fund for the Compulsory Additional Pension Insurance will be remunerated after the new one. The new occupational insurance jobs will be decided by a special supervisory commission, which will also check existing occupational insurance posts. The verification of these posts by individual employers will now be the responsibility of another special commission and the supervision of the obligation to engage in occupational insurance will be under the responsibility of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the work. It is therefore proposed to effectively control the payment of contributions to be made by the Capital Company on the basis of the information it will receive from the taxpayers for the payment of contributions and from the tax authority. In the event of non-payment of contributions, recovery of unpaid contributions to professional insurance shall be determined by the competent tax authority at the request of the fund manager. With regard to the proposed dual status regime, this is a compromise proposal that follows the objective of equal treatment for all potential beneficiaries who qualify for age and early retirement. The proposal for double status arrangements is based on the fundamental principle of equal treatment of all insurers and governs the dual status of independent entrepreneurs in the same way for all categories of insurers. Sudden interventions into the pension and disability insurance system could have a negative impact on the sustainability of the pension fund. As follows from the amended proposal of the law, on the basis of a change in the system as so far a combination of work and retirement will be possible only in the form of a partial pension or by reactivation or with a re-insurance of insurance. All insured persons who meet the conditions for obtaining an old or early retirement pension have, with the possibility of applying the payment of 20 per cent of their early or old pension, a double status already regulated. This option is also proposed for all those who comply with the old rules and the payment will no longer be limited to 65 years of age. The bill also introduces changes in the regulation of partial pensions and reactivation, which in its own way also allows for dual status or maintenance of the status of the insured while at the same time maintaining the pensioner's status. Such receipts of 20 percent of old or early retirement pensions will also be provided to pensioners who have either been reactivated for full-time or insurance periods and who are at peace with their pension for the time of reintegration. The possibility is therefore introduced that, following the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement, the guarantor or pensioner may remain active or remain in insurance for only two or three hours a day or 10 or 15 hours a week, and not for at least 4 hours as has been the case so far. All pensioners will have the option of receiving 75 per cent of the pension provided that they are included in the insurance for 2 hours a day. The amended proposal also regulates several issues so far concerning the regulation of the independent activity of pensioners who, on the basis of the exemption from SPIZ-1 insurance, have not yet been obliged to harmonise their status as the harmonisation period is extended to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are aware that the law does not have uniform support, but we will still support it because the debate on the dual status regime itself has not yet been concluded. The White Paper is in preparation, where changes in pension and disability insurance arrangements will be possible after a wider discussion. We would like the debate to provide a satisfactory response as soon as possible to all concerned insurers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The question of the conditions under which an employee may receive an old-age pension is of principle importance. In the United Left, with the expansion of the Institute, we do not agree with 20 percent of the pension because it undermines the solidarity of pension insurance. The pension system must provide all workers who reach the age requirement and retirement age with decent pensions. However, it is not the job of the pension system to pay a pension to insured persons who remain employed and receive full pay. Those who demand that employed pensioners receive an additional 20 percent or even 100 percent of their pension at the same time as their salary give two main reasons. The first one is moral. If someone has worked and paid contributions for 40 years, he is unconditionally entitled to a pension. This may be true for the system of investment pension insurance, not for the solidarity flow system in Slovenia. The inclusion of insurance is not voluntary. Employees do not pay contributions from their net salary, the employer automatically withdraws the contributions. Employees do not determine the amount of contributions, they are determined by law and, most importantly, the Institute for Pension Insurance does not invest in securities, but pays current pensions with them. Moreover, last year 32% of pension expenditure was financed from the state budget. In the solidarity system, pensions should be paid to those who need it — the insured who are too old to live with paid work. That's why this rent-a-pension scheme doesn't correspond to reality. This is as if someone who has paid compulsory parental and unemployment contributions for 40 years has demanded that his pension be paid, even though he is not unemployed and does not have small children. Anyone who can work and receives a salary can't be entitled to a pension. Just as a single person is not entitled to child allowances and employees are not entitled to unemployment benefits. The second argument is economic. Rents are intended to encourage employees to work longer and to pay longer contributions, but this argument also does not hold up. When one worker retires, his job is generally occupied by another worker, so there is no loss of contributions. The contributions are not about the person, but about the job. Other financial and non-financial incentives are also available to promote the employment of older people. The biggest financial incentive is that the salary is higher than the pension and that the pension base is also increasing over the years. However, the additional conditions for greater work activity are greater labour and legal protection and a good working condition, otherwise people are not able to work after 40 years of work. In a system where all these elements work, there is no need to subsidise the work of pensioners with pensions. Before the government has decided on this instrument, it should answer at least two questions. Why would the director of a company be able to receive 20% of the pension at the same time as the salary and not the nurse because after the ZUJF, her employment stops as soon as she fulfils all the conditions? Why do you allow almost 30 per cent of pensioners to receive a pension below 500 euros while at the same time 20 per cent of the pension will also be paid to people with the highest wages? If the Government had stopped at the Institute of Partial Pensions and Solidarity in Occupational Insurance, they would have supported the proposal if the Institute of Payment of 20 per cent of the pension were to limit the pension to employees themselves, they would have supported the proposal. There are more and more self-employed workers, 20 percent of their pension is less than their social contributions. We cannot agree, however, that the current exception is changing into a rule, because this undermines the solidarity of our pension system. In short, everyone who has earned a pension in the past and needs it should receive it when he no longer receives a salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Every time the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is amended or supplemented, the public’s response is high. Since the law touches all of us, it is understandable. In the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats we receive many letters from citizens as well as from various organizations expressing their views on the novel. The novelty brings significant changes to the arrangements in two areas of pension and disability insurance. First, the provision of double pensioners who would like to remain or become newly active, and secondly, changes to the occupational insurance regime. We accept and agree on changes in the field of professional insurance by Christian Democrats. We only point to the position of the Capital Society, d.d., which points out that the company is not essentially a holder of public powers and does not conduct proceedings under the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Offences Act. The new task would therefore require a major overhaul or upgrade of the information renewal system, as well as human resources and financial reinforcements as a result. For the novelty is greatly expanded by its powers. With regard to the proposed dual status regime, however, we Christian Democrats are more reserved. The Novela proposes the possibility of combining the receipt of 20 per cent of full age or early retirement with full-time insurance for all forms of employment contract or activity after the age of 65. We do not agree with the proposed solution in the New Slovenia Group, so we have already tabled an amendment to Article 7 for the meeting of the Committee. An extensive debate on this subject has shown that our proposal is relevant. That is why we have decided to re- table a slightly amended amendment for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly. Simply put, we suggest that each insured person should have the opportunity to continue his activity as an S.P. or to establish it while receiving the full retirement pension to which he is entitled. We estimate that this can only be good for the pension fund, as the full contributions of these insurers will be an additional inflow to which the state will otherwise give up. We also estimate that such a way of resolving dual status is more appropriate than the one proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as it encourages insured persons who would like to remain active even after meeting the conditions for an old or early retirement to do so legally. Otherwise, under the more unfavourable conditions of dual status, we estimate that there will be more grey economy. Many potential payers of full social security contributions will decide to work in black after the cost calculation, which will be very difficult to control. Nor does the novelty solve the problems of insured persons who have retired under stricter conditions and have continued their activities so that they received a full pension at lower flat rates. It is about 2 thousand 200 people, mostly over 60 years of age, who have small craft workshops or activities that have higher psychological value to them than financial value. We Christian Democrats are committed not to deprive them of their already acquired rights, as proposed by this novel. In our view, the Ministry wrongly assumes that a large majority of these pensioners will decide to be insured for a few hours and to receive an appropriate proportion of the pension. We argue that most of these operators will be fully retired and that the activity will be closed. Thus, the state will conscientiously renounce the influx into the pension register, and it will plunge them into inactivity. We also report that it does not resolve the status of farmers who were obliged by law to enter the mandatory bookkeeping. Unfortunately, these farmers are assessed on the insurance basis by taking into account incorrect income data and not reflecting the real income of the farm. Novilo is also opposed by the Council of State, which in its opinion largely substantiates the reasons for the opposition. Let me finish. Christian Democrats are detained until the novel because it does not offer solutions, so we will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In December 2014, at the meeting of the National Assembly, when we adopted the amendment to the Law on the Home Registration of Insuranceers and Users of the Rights of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance, we recognised as the objective of the amendment the need to ensure an extension of the period for the harmonisation of the status of individual insurers, which must comply with the provisions of the new law on disability insurance adopted in 2012. I would like to recall that the current government has also decided to extend the period of time, just as the previous government, which adopted the Law on the Home Registration of Insuranceers and Users of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance, in December 2013. At the time of the extension, on behalf of the Alliance's Group of Members, I expressed my expectation that this year the government will provide us with a final decision and that it will address this issue in a way that will in fact eliminate or allow double status for all without exception. Today we are considering a novel that, according to the proposaler, represents some kind of compromise of the possible. The amendments thus relate to the arrangements for professional insurance and the arrangements for the dual status of insurers. The objective is to regulate double status for all insured persons who qualify for age or early retirement in a manner that ensures equal treatment. Not to repeat today's repeated proposed amendment to the law, I would just like to add that the Non-aligned Members understand the desire and the need to regulate the dual status, and last but not least, we have expected this from the Government. And as I said in the introduction, we were expecting the status of all the insurers, not just those who are engaged. As we understand that the present novel is a compromise possible, we will support it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! One of the main objectives of the last pension reform was to ensure, inter alia, the financial sustainability of the pension system and a decent pension. The novelty that we are considering today follows these objectives, which does not mean that we no longer need any changes to the pension system in the long term. One major challenge in the future is certainly the response to demographic change and the increase in the number of active insurers. The proposal for the novelty of pension and disability insurance, which we are considering today, is to a greater extent changing or complementing the area of pension insurance. The novelty is governed, inter alia, by a mechanism to verify the eligibility of occupational insurance, the statutory review of occupational insurance jobs, the increase in the minimum occupational pension to the amount of old age pension, solidarity reserves intended to provide funds for the payment of occupational pensions to all who have fulfilled the conditions for obtaining the right to a pension, but do not have sufficient resources to pay in their accounts. This year, when we considered the annual report on the work and financial operations of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, we also had the opportunity to hear the effects of the last pension reform. Last year, for example, for the sixth year in a row, we recorded the fall of the insured, but the lowest so far, by only 0.2%. On the other hand, we have also recorded an increase in the number of pensioners, but also the lowest in the last few years. In the last two years, the ratio between the number of pensioners and insured persons remains approximately the same, i.e. 1.37 insured persons per pensioner. In today's debate, we must also highlight the material situation of pensioners. As a result of the economic and public financial situation in the country over the past three years, pensions have not been aligned with the system law, but when we talk about the material situation of pensioners, we cannot expect that their situation will only improve by harmonising pensions, we must seek further solutions in order to improve their material position, taking into account the possibility of gradual transition from the labour market to retirement. The lowest pensions must reach the level that makes it possible for individuals to live a decent life. One of the objectives of pension legislation should also be to promote growth in the level of labour activity. If we achieve this either with an incentive in the form of an allowance of 20 per cent of the pension, as proposed by the amendment, but without the age requirement, which is set at 65 years under the current law, or with the Institute of Partial Retirement, then it is also one of the possible and true solutions. For those insured persons who qualify for retirement but who do not wish or are no longer able to work full-time, the novelty provides for the receipt of a partial pension while receiving a payment for work at the same time, but in a way that the insured person remains in compulsory insurance for at least two hours a day. In doing so, all insurers are treated equally. Therefore, this solution also applies to those who, by means of the amendment to the Law on the National Register of Pension and Disability Insuranceers, were extended a third time in a row before one year in order to harmonise their status. The bill will also allow them to be after 31. 12. In 2015, they carried out a separate activity and received a pension, but would have to be included in compulsory insurance. On the basis of the reasons given, we will support the proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 14 December 2015. I inform you that the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, which are not in accordance with Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, have been tabled under Article 37 of the law, so we will not discuss or vote on them. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Who wants to discuss it? Mrs. Iva Dimic, please. There are two candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Already in the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats - I have said that we have re- tabled the amendment to Article 7, mainly because we estimate that all pensioners who have retired here must be taken into account, that they have already achieved their own, I will say a bonus or whatever I may say to this, their retirement age and that they are entitled to full pensions, but that they are allowed to open up their own businesses and continue to carry on their activities. As I have already said, many times or to the greatest extent, this is a matter of small, family or small businesses, which are for the start of the economy, in order to preserve not least the knowledge that tradition is being preserved. It seems to me that it would make sense for our amendment to support it to go this way. Last but not least, I have to touch on what the applicants have proposed to schedule the scales, that they can work 75 hours a week, and that they will eventually be left with about 20 percent of the pension for which they have practically allocated all the necessary fees to the state for 40 years, and that they are no longer eligible, that they are simply walking into some unemployment, they take some meaning. Some may still be very active at age 65, but some are unfortunately ill. We'd have a question here, too. In our amendment, I will also take advantage of the question, but what happens to those entrepreneurs who agree to the conditions mentioned in the law to get sick at that time. What would happen to someone, I'll tell the older gentleman, the entrepreneurs who would decide to go on a scale, how many hours a week he'll work, how many hours a week his pension will go down, and then he'll get sick and one week, or 14 days, or one month away. Then what's he gonna do with a 20% pension all the time? Please make it clear here, because I just don't see the point of making work impossible for those who want to work. In this country, we always make it impossible for those who want to do something because we prescribe such impossible and excessive demands that they simply do not decide to do so, rather than exploiting every potential, every enterprise in the country and also stimulate it in some way. Once again, this law is not good at this work, so I ask for the support of our article, which eliminates it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. He has the floor, Mr. Peter Pogacar, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings for me, too! With regard to the proposed amendment, and above all to the explanation, however, some clarifications need to be highlighted. First of all, our pension system is based on solidarity, so it's not, as has been said today, on a pension system where you would be entitled to a pension on the basis of 40 years of payment. No, your pension belongs to you when you meet the conditions, but at that point, it's provided to you by the other pensioners. We do not have as in some other countries of the pension system, we have an intergenerational solidarity system that sets up a social case, a social insurance case for old age, when an individual is no longer able to work full-time. There's something else I'd like to warn you here, Your Honor. You keep saying, with the bill we treat all insurers equally and do not leave them only 25 percent of the pension; no, they have the opportunity to stay active for two, three, four, five hours. If they stay active for two hours, that is the minimum insurance time, they receive 75 per cent of the pension and pay contributions from the activity for one quarter. With regard to your proposal, where you propose that this option of a 100 % pension in addition to carrying out a full-time activity be maintained only for self-employed persons, I would nevertheless like to point out. In 2000, the pension law changed that espeii, independent entrepreneurs, could not exercise the right to a partial pension – 4: 4, as well as employees. The Constitutional Court, in its decision, said that the unequal treatment was inappropriate and repealed, so we gave independent entrepreneurs the opportunity to work part-time with the previous law, with the new law, as we give all other insurers the opportunity to remain active for two hours and for six hours to establish a pension. When you asked me what would happen to the hospital. Just like when he's open-minded! He has the same rights. It is a matter of maintaining an activity of at least two hours. This way, we'll make it possible. And all the time you've come out of the assumption – and this has been repeatedly confined in public debate – you're always assuming that the country doesn't let people do it, that the country forces them to retire. On the contrary! We just encourage them; we encourage them with bonuses. Thus, every insured person has the opportunity to retire, and here comes the role of the state to stimulate those who are able to stay active and thus increase their pension. This is the goal of 20 per cent of the pension next to the salary, in addition to the income from the activity, because we all know that the key to the decision to retire is the relationship between the last salary and the first pension. Plus, for the 41st year of work, for the 42nd year of work, he gets a permanent bonus in a higher pension. These are positive elements, stimulating people to stay active as long as possible, because this is good for them, because this is also important for the financial sustainability of the pension system. If we supported the proposed amendment, we would actually create an inequality, which, in a similar case, in the same factual state, has already been established by the Constitutional Court, so on behalf of the Government, I would suggest that Members do not support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss, please sign in. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again. Today I must find that I am very happy when we accept and I am sure that we will adopt, by a large majority, amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. First of all, the reflection of this day; morning or not in the morning, it was thought to be morning, and then it was delayed in the afternoon, we accepted the changes of the ZUJF, where it was exposed to the need of the 4th income class for a transitional period of two years to change and the matter will somehow be short-term again, non-systemic, but only for two years. Under the Environmental Protection Act, this transitional period was only one year. Well, now we have the Pension and Disability Insurance Act on the table and we are making one decision, one solution that will probably apply not forever, because nothing is eternal, all this matter is changing, but for a long-term period of time. What are we saving here anyway? I am very pleased that in the area of Somehow two areas or two parts of this law I find very important; one is professional insurance, where I am very happy that consensus has been reached in this area, consensus between all the social partners. [[…]] There are not so many things where employers agree and unions agree on, agree on and agree on a third-party government. This is one of these areas, so maybe this isn't a long and wide distribution, because obviously this is a win-win situation. The second important set is regulation, I call it, the so-called dual status. In the beginning, I must say that in Desus, which we are already defending by default, by name and even if you want, by the soul of the rights of the pensioners – and of the present and of course of the future – that we are satisfied with this solution. This is the right solution, in our opinion. Why? First of all, he doesn't discriminate against anyone. Secondly, at the same time, it gives no one any privileges. No privileges compared to the second third, any remaining target group. Thirdly, I've heard that something is taken Nothing is taken, nothing is given. [[…]] More importantly, the possibility of getting that 20% pension when you're still working, when you still want to work, you're able to work, they want you, not least, to work, you're giving him 20% as an additional stimulus to stay on the labour market. We're not forcing anyone to do anything. We are not forcing anyone into anything – I hope I haven’t denied myself too many times now. In short, what I'm trying to say is that we don't command by this law that someone has to be retired if they don't want to. On the contrary! If anyone wants to, he can remain in full insurance — that is, in any kind of service — while, at the same time, if the conditions for retirement are met, he still draws or receives that 20 percent of his pension. If someone wants to reactivate himself — the same story. And more! First, it does not only apply until the age of 65, and secondly, it is not limited or only that limit is "fixy-fifty", four hours, but is lower placed, two hours, three hours, four or more and so on. That's how all options are open here. What I think — and I will allow myself to have a valuable judgment here — by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which has been the whole time of the adoption of this law — was, last but not least, they were always there when these solutions were adopted, they probably had comments, but they were not satisfied with anything as the only target group! And they were offered! If you ask me, they were offered something such that if they accepted it at the time, we would have problems in the National Assembly today. Who would we have trouble with? We would have problems – yes, Mr Pogačar laughs at me – probably with Uroša Prikl, certainly with Desus as a result, because we would advocate discrimination here, an unequal position between different target groups. And why am I talking so much about equality and non-discrimination? Because it is hard to imagine, I also said this in the introduction in the position of the Group of Members, very hard to imagine even a range of professions, caterers, waiters, cooks, merchants, even a handful of physical workers, construction workers and so on – I cannot list all professions – which, if you want, cannot do their work under the laws of biology after a certain period of time – 35, 40 and more years of involvement in some work – because they simply cannot do this anymore. And then it's very unfair to him, and here he is, and he can't work, and someone who's dealing with another activity can do that. In the same breath, I have to say this; some of the signs were, how, say, professors, some lecturers and other professions, they continue to work, they go to work, and they are exempt from this. Of course, they retire, they can work, they can work on some business contracts, under some copyright contracts, what I know, on what legal basis they can do. But we have tried recently that these contracts are in some way less competitive – yes, you have heard correctly, less competitive – because this is not exactly the most loyal competition for those regular jobs we want in Desus, more "normal" jobs, a certain amount of security for young people entering the labour market, the long-term security of these people, the possibility of creating a family, solving the housing issue, and in the final stage also filling the budget and both the cash registers. So sumarum so sumarum, with this solution we are pleased. And once again, I stress that we are not forcing anyone to do anything, we are not forcing anyone to do anything, but we want – and this is reflected in the resolution of the law – that for all people it is the same valet, the same criteria, without any positive or negative discrimination, without any privileges. We all have to be the same here. These are the solutions to this law, so we will be very happy to support it, and we hope that it will be caught in practice, as it is called. In the following year, however, we are looking forward to the White Paper and to continuing to work successfully in the field of pension legislation. And just so, because the last reform already brings some positive results; otherwise, it is possible for the taste of someone who is a little more critical, a little shy, but progress is and we hope that this will increase. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Government and to you, Members and Members of Parliament! Last year, when we discussed this extension of the harmonisation of the status for independent entrepreneurs of dual status, I noted that I wanted a system regime because only the extension of the status for two years in a row did I not fully like it. Well, we do now have a system law that regulates this area systematically and I am pleased with this proposal for amendments to this legislation in this area that we have. I think that these solutions are fair and equal for all categories of insurers, both for espouses and for all other insurers. I do not want to distinguish between espionage, those who are employed through espionage, and especially those who are employed through other companies. So far, these differences have been made, and I think the Espsies have even been privileged. For if we remember years ago, those who worked through the Espions had the opportunity to choose among the pension bases, to apply for those lowest wages, to pay contributions only, and it is no wonder that they also had low pensions. But today no one wants to hear that they were essentially guilty because they paid low contributions, or from low bases, and they preferred to invest in other places their earnings, their surpluses. But the worker is not a name, and it seems right that we are finally equalizing everything. And this law brings this equality; these changes to this law bring it. If I now define myself to these changes proposed by the NSI and the SDS, this is referred to as Article 7, when they propose that, as I have understood them, only those who have retired through the espies have the opportunity to continue working and receive a 100 per cent pension. This seems to me to be a great injustice to those insured or pensioners who have retired as insured through other jobs. This proposal to remain 20 per cent for all who have been retired or have been reactivated or have remained in a working relationship and fulfil the conditions for retirement so that they can receive 20 per cent of the pension, I think it is entirely fair. Perhaps this amount is one, or this proposal, so that no one will be able to serve it, because I believe that there are few employers who will re-engage someone who is already retired. I think that somehow it will be possible to take advantage of only more privileged insurers than we, Members, or professors, judges and so on, I don't know, these categories of people. Certainly not those who had to retire due to various technological surpluses, working processes and so on. I don't think that this surplus for a pension fund of 20 percent, as far as these reactivators are concerned, will be too large, just as these calculations have somehow been made. I don't think that's gonna be a big burden for the pension fund. However, it is certainly better for the pension fund that these people do not take advantage of or take advantage of the full pension, that we continue to be assured that we are paying our contributions, that this is just a bonus to keep us active and that we remain active after 65 years, which now allows these changes that we are dealing with today. However, I would also like to point out that this 20% possibility of using the pension under the ZPIZ-2 has already been established, namely for those who have remained in a working relationship, that they have not at all established retirement, that they have not retired, while others who have reactivated have not had this option. Now we give all pensioners, even in this area, the opportunity to receive another 20 percent of their pension. Therefore, it will certainly not be possible for NSI to support this proposal, and this amendment to Article 7, and I will therefore support the entire amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The law has two types of dual status; one is a partial pension, and the other is paid by the Institute 20 percent of the pension. In the United Left, with the first proposal, it means a partial pension, we actually agree or see that it has some positive effects. In this case, an older staff member can maintain some part-time employment, so that he can also introduce and transfer knowledge to younger employees, and at the same time two people work in the same job, which is, of course, this symbiosis, if I say so, is of course long-term. In short, a worker who could otherwise retire can transfer his knowledge and thus enable more continuous work in this job. However, we have a few more reservations or problems with the Institute to pay 20 percent of our pension. The key social and economic aspect of this institution is particularly important here, as it has been set up. What is the point of this opposition? This is the fact that in the United Left we believe that this institute will be useful or that it will serve those who are already privileged, says these jobs, which we have already heard of, that they are in fact no longer advantageous than others. Here we have nurses, police officers, soldiers, teachers who we know will not be able to access this right, and only get that 20 percent of the pension, or if I go further. Here it is necessary to explain exactly to nurses, police officers, soldiers and teachers why they will not have this right, and this right will be exercised by those who, under the current Article 188 of the ZUJF, are in some way excluded from this restriction. It is clear, therefore, that even the majority of employees in the private sector will not have the opportunity to work over retirement age, all workers working under the most difficult conditions after 60 or 65 years are simply unable to work anymore. That is, I think, a fact that we have heard several times before today. On the other hand, employers also do not want older workers because they are more difficult to forgive. This is also a practice that appears daily. In short, this also means in the private sector that these 20% of pensions will be paid mainly by those in management positions. I think it's pretty obvious. The political class in this country insists that the costs of pensions are too high. At this moment, we are listening here today to how we would now pay another 20 percent of the pensions to those who do not actually need them. When we considered the proposal, let's say that the limitation of inheritance for the benefit of protective allowances is lifted, the government objected. One of the arguments was to make the social funds poor. The argument was that this would jeopardise the payment of social assistance to other beneficiaries. I ask representatives of the Government whether the payment of partial pensions and privileged staff is not a poverty of pension funds and whether the payment of partial pensions of privileged staff does not jeopardise the rights of current and future pensioners. We also often hear the argument that with such measures the pension box will not be on the worse or even on the better. Even those who propose not only 20%, but also 100%. They tell us that the SPIZ will pay the pension, but it will be partially compensated for the contribution. Of course, it just doesn't hold. When an employee retires, his job is not suspended, but he is to be occupied by someone else, the job remains, he is occupied by a younger worker – in principle a younger worker. Contributions are therefore still paid, and this continuity is ensured. The only way to save a pension is for the employees not to retire and, of course, not to receive a pension. There is also talk of encouraging the employment of older people, and I do not think we need subsidies to do so. The biggest incentive would be to make wages higher than pensions, even if we take into account allowances. It is also an incentive to increase the pension base over the years. The incentive is also that you are active and involved in social life, but of course certain conditions must be met: you must be healthy, you must have a normal working environment, you must have a employer who respects an older worker, not to replace him with a younger one who is cheaper, and it is not least easier to forgive. This is not the case for most of our workers, so this action will benefit only a privileged minority and I stress this fact. There is another condition or should be, and the employer must not force anyone to retire. With us, however, we have the largest employee of the Republic of Slovenia, which, on the basis of Article 188 of the ZUJF, as soon as the conditions for retirement are met — nurses, teachers, teachers, administrators, in short, all employees — in fact, throws them on the road or pushes them into retirement. In short, these are some arguments that I think are quite eloquent about this Institute of 20% pension. The reality is, in a way, everyone is talking about that, on the one hand, we have those who have more privileged jobs and those who, at the end of the day, are not physically able to do their work anymore, and from this very practical experience, we have a conclusion to which this institution will actually benefit. These are, of course, those who already enjoy more benefits in their workplaces! Of course, some exceptions are also acceptable. This applies mainly to self-employed persons. This exception is, in some ways, morally and economically justified. Indeed, more and more self-employed workers who are barely paying minimum contributions, the pensions of these economically dependents are miserable and will probably also need a protective allowance, in short they deserve this help. This is also economically meaningful, if, for example, an economically dependent person receives 20 per cent of the pension, this is much less than the social contribution paid and therefore the PPIZ is a plus. In the case of self-employed people, it is true that what does not apply to ordinary employees is that when a self-employed person retires, his job ceases to exist, but the government has not installed any protectors as far as that is concerned. In short, we have more and more directors and advisers who open their espas and thus serve more. However, the company for which they actually work has a lower cost, of course, because it does not pay all the contributions to the cash register. Thus, there is currently no guardian in the marriage to rule out such abuses that are enjoyed by various privileged people. In conclusion, he would have touched on his professional pension. Of course, we support these proposals. The law actually extends the rights of professional pensioners, i.e. soldiers, police officers, miners and other difficult professions. After the new pension, those insured persons who do not have sufficient resources in the account will also be entitled to the pension if they have been included in the occupational insurance scheme for at least 17 years. This is guaranteed by a special solidarity reserve, so we support this part of the law, but we note that there is something wrong with the system if someone is included in it for 17 years, meets all other formal conditions, and at the same time there is not enough in the account for the pension. Since this debate is more or less focused on dual status, the following should be noted. The system of professional insurance in Slovenia is currently not a flow system, but an investment system. This pension is actually a pension and this needs to be stressed. However, it has proved necessary to ensure solidarity in this system as well, for example, many miners and other difficult professions would not have received a professional pension at all, even though they did so for 15 or more years. In short, these starting points or these arguments in their own way also speak of the reasons why the proposed amendments will not be supported by both SDS and NSIs. They also state the reason why we are held in the United Left to a government proposal, and I will also conclude at this point for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanya Zink. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u82	Dear Vice President, Government Representative, colleague and colleague! In my debate, I will limit myself to double status. I regret, however, that the proposed amendments to the law during coordination have not reached a broader consensus. Here I have in mind the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which proposed a 100% bonus. However, I believe that the Government would also find a more favourable solution if this were possible or if this allowed the financial situation of the State. I'm afraid that's not the case. But I have to say that if that were possible or if that were the case, it would seem very strange for us to receive a full pension at the full salary. We need to assume that the pension is intended primarily for the preservation of the social security of an individual when he is no longer able to do his job for the sake of age. The logical consequence is that wages and pensions in full, in my view, simply cannot be received. We all know very well what the state of the current pension register is, and I believe that even everyone in this Chamber knows that in view of demographic trends we need to do everything we need to keep the situation in the long term sustainable. That is why I see a solution to the dual status that has been proposed as one of the solutions that will help this and is optimal in view of the state's current financial situation. In short, I believe that the current dual status solution is such that the insurers will be encouraged to stay in employment while the bonus or pension will not jeopardise the pension fund. I would not like to go into detail in the professional argument, I leave this to the Government which has drawn up the proposal, but I would like to tell all those of you who are watching us that I will support the amendment of the law because it brings a number of good solutions. This is because, from now on, all insured persons who qualify for an old or early retirement pension will decide to stay either full-time or reinstated in employment paid 20 percent of their pension – regardless of age, even after 65 years, which has been the upper limit. In addition, there is a possibility of a partial pension if the insured person remains in a working relationship for at least two hours a day. And what is essential is that the amendment of the law regulates double status for all and no one else will be exempt, which has so far been regarded as independent entrepreneurs, so I also find the amendments of the opposition unacceptable. As such, the law is resilient for the pension allowance and in fact provides savings. Of course, there will be a need for further discussion on dual status, and I believe that this opportunity will be open when the White Paper on the Reform of Pension and Disability Insurance is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? First of all, Mr. Joseph Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable representative of the Ministry of Labour! I estimate that we have an exceptional expert from the Ministry of Labour here, but unfortunately we do not have a political figure. Somehow there is never a minister when we have difficult topics in her field. But it always comes when we have some subjects in the field of social demagogies, such as the write-off for a long time, the signing of some agreements in the series of reflectors, cameras, and so on, but let's leave it now. I continue with the information I heard earlier this morning on the radio when I was driving from Prekmurje to Ljubljana, and it kind of surprised me. Unfortunately, I can't tell the source because I didn't hear it, but it was a national radio that said that we have 83% of family businesses in Slovenia. Thus, 83 percent of all businesses are family-owned, have a family tradition — small, micro, medium-sized enterprises, espouses, parts and so on — and that family companies employ about 70 percent of all active populations. This is quite interesting, given the regime we once had in the previous country. So the information that positively surprised me. This law – indeed, we can tell ourselves here, a coalition to the opposition, including the ministry of the opposition. But I really regret – but here I agree with my colleague Tanja Cink, who says that she also regrets, so at least I understood that there was no greater consensus that there was no agreement with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I'm really sorry about that. As I hear it, this chamber, at least it predicts so, will require a constitutional review of this law. I have a real feeling that somehow we're not stimulating some craftsman to continue the craftsmanship. I understand what the pension system is like for us to be a solidarity system, but if at some point someone meets the conditions for retirement, he is calculated what kind of pension he receives a month, why he should not receive this pension – and, of course, I am here defending double status – but if he wants to work forward, he pays full contributions – for esps, for example – and his employees are also paying. Thank God he's got them! I don't know where the problem is, I really don't understand. Perhaps Mr Pogacar will have to explain it again. With regard to the question raised by colleague Ive Dimic regarding the hospital stock. Let's simulate it. The one who has, say, a 20% pension, if he's working full-time, he's a singer, so he's going to hospital. We know that the first month of the hospital is going to be the burden of the employer, so this espoia, who receives 20% of the pension. Let's just figure out what that is, roughly from-to. Let's also ask here how this guy's gonna survive, at 20% of his pension. Of course you'll say he has to have some savings. Yeah, like, okay, she's got them. So things aren't too trivial here. I truly regret that there was no longer this communication, more taking into account the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which, however, knows best how craftsmen function, how small businesses function. The ministry says, in a way, we don't worry, we've agreed with the unions, and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is being ignored. Look, that's not good. While the Chamber of Commerce and Industry correctly highlights some of the positive aspects of the proposed arrangement, which was also pointed out by the ZDUS, the craftsmen consider that dual status arrangements are not systematic and are not in line with the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, whereby independent entrepreneurs and members of a single company, after having fulfilled both the conditions for retirement, i.e. 40 years of working age and 60 years of age, could retire and continue to carry out their activities while receiving full pensions and full contributions and taxes. Isn't that good for the country? I don't understand why this country is turning its back on them. I also wonder if the country has calculated how many people will be unemployed from the entry into force of this law, because the espies are probably also hiring, because we all know that. I'd be sorry if we lost one job because of a stupid marriage solution. One job! The Chamber of Commerce also draws attention to the uneven position of individual statuses of entrepreneurs - this seems very important to me - which, for example, also shows the rule of the priority order of insurance based on the status of a single entrepreneur in the case of such a person having two statuses, for example, in addition to the status of a single entrepreneur, the status of the company's director with a personal responsibility, and, as a rule, insurance based on the status of the independent entrepreneur for the latter is less favourable than insurance under any other status. The Chamber of Commerce also highlights the non-life and non-reality of the proposed provisions of Article 9, under which access to insurance for at least 2 hours a day or 10 hours a week is placed as a condition for the continuation of the work or the management of the activity. The Chamber considers that this restriction is unacceptable for craftsmen, both in terms of customer business, the operating time is usually longer than just two hours a day, as well as in relation to the Law on tax clearance of accounts which introduced the tax registers. In the event of a potential need for cessation of the activity due to proposed legislative changes, there will also be a question for craftsmen to resolve the burdens of existing production assets and workplaces, to pay the compensation for the use of building land, to raise the income base, if possible to recover the production assets, and so on and so on. Let's say bob beans; this is really about non-life solutions. Two hours' work, look at two hours' work -- how it works, I don't know, but the craftsmen probably know. We agree with the additional emphasis of the Chamber of Commerce that the pension is an insured right. It is the right of the insured person to whom an individual is entitled, even if he no longer carries out his or her activities, and that, at the same time, receiving a full pension and legally carrying out his or her activities to the full would have positive effects both on the State budget through taxes and on both cash social security, of course on the basis of contributions paid for health and pension and disability insurance. At the same time, it would be possible to improve the social situation of retired independent entrepreneurs and members of single-member companies with lower pensions. As an additional positive effect of the proposed special arrangement, the Chamber of Commerce cites further reduced shares of grey economy, black work and the prevention of unfair competition, a greater offer for consumers and the preservation of the offer in the area of extinct retail trade, retained activities at a later age with positive health, psychophysical status and material status of the individual, the prevention of an increase in the number of unemployed in the event of the dismissal of employees from individual independent entrepreneurs who, of course, should be dismissed for closing the activity, and the transfer of knowledge to younger generations on the basis of mentoring. So I stress; many non-life solutions bring this legal solution. As I have already mentioned, I repeat, the competent Ministry of Labour with regard to the proposal for a special arrangement of dual status for self-employed persons proposed by the Chamber explains that the proposal in drafting legislative solutions could not be taken into account, since at the meeting of the Economic and Social Council the proposal did not receive support for oalicism, it supports that the State Council remains in our constitutional order as a quasi-a higher house, then it should also listen to what the Council of State has to say about this amendment to the law. And we have heard that the Council of State supports the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and does not support the law. This is where we should think. Besides, I don't want to influence anyone, but there's something I hear about the veto on the Taotalian social partners. Of course he didn't! We know why. I think most of them go to law school. But this veto has already somehow come to us all together in the habit of saying, what do we care about veto, and let's get together a little bit and gather 46 votes and run over this upper house of the Slovenian Parliament. Of course, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia expresses general support for the bill, and somehow I find it surprising that in all fronts, employers are somehow neglected and their voice is ignored. It's just my personal feeling, and today you're going to find it hard to convince me that's not the case. But you can convince me that this law encourages the continued activity of craftsmen, that they will gain bonuses and so on. Let's ask them what these bonuses mean to them. For some cases, I know in my environment that "says" after we have virtually record high unemployment, but people ask me, "Listen, what will be the solution now after 1. 1?" I say that I do not know that this will be discussed and decided this week. I already know a couple of times that they're just gonna close the trade. So this will be the purpose of this law. I'll report to you next year how the craftsmen will decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Peter Pogacar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family of social and equal opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you. And I'll try to convince you. See, under the applicable law adopted in this Chamber in December 2012 and entered into force on 1 January 2013, it was no longer possible to carry out a separate activity and to receive a pension, it was possible from 2000 to 2012. It's not possible anymore. Exceptions are during the transitional period, which has already been extended twice, those who were retired on 1 January 2013 and had open espies at the same time. This transitional period is now due to expire. If you do not support this law as proposed, they will, in fact, have only the option from 1 January – of course, like the rest of the insured – to maintain the activity for at least 4 hours a day and receive a pension for 4 hours. We are proposing a law to enable them to maintain their activity for two hours of insurance time, not working time, insurance time a day, and for six hours they will receive a pension and will also pay contributions only in the amount of 25 per cent of what they are currently paying. However, with a few individuals outside the Chamber of Commerce, I have spoken to those in this situation and am pleased with the proposed solution. I am also sorry that we have not been able to reach agreement with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Really, we've put a lot of effort into this, we've had quite a few meetings. We have also come up with a compromise solution, which we have said in the Government, because it is an exception to general regulation, we expect it to be adopted if it is also agreed by the representatives of all the insurers and employers who finance their pensions. If you want to have an exception, it must also be accepted by those who simply finance the exception. In this case, it is financed by active insurers and employers. Do not think that all the employers' associations were against this proposal. All employers' associations, with the exception of the Chamber of Commerce, have said, at least one of them, we demand equal treatment, the exception in our system is already too much. Your Honor, you keep saying he'll only have 25 percent of his pension. No, he'll have 75 percent of his pension and he'll stay active for two hours. This is an important improvement compared to the current arrangement when the option is only 4 : 4, if you want me to say it at home. When you compare a hospital in this espoia, which will be co-active for only 25 percent, do not compare it with another, compare it with a comparable one. Compare it with one that is 100 % active in its activity, which does 100 % of its own activity and does not have, as he does, the right to hospital compensation. There was no way that we ignored the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia; on the contrary, I think that we have sat with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce most of the time on this issue. We tried to find a solution and we wanted them to show us that there was actually some special property of independent entrepreneurs, but unfortunately they wanted an exception that was even more favourable than the old legislation, they wanted an exception at 60 years of age, which, of course, was not agreed by the other insurers and the rest of the employers' associations. This proposal of the Chamber of Commerce would, however, result in an inequality in the law before the Constitutional Court in any case – in fact, they would have difficulty explaining why they could have a special status compared to others. Perhaps just what was discussed earlier All the time today, honourable Member Dr. Vatovec is talking about that if someone stays active, a young job seeker will not come to his place of work. [[…]] This, of course, is not true in the system, it is the so-called age employment paradox. Retirement of an individual is not automatically replaced by new employment, and even if, in terms of the sustainability of the pension fund, at least two jobs should be provided for everyone who retires in order to maintain the system. When we say that the system – this is now the second system – is a bonus that under the same conditions when you meet the conditions for retirement, you also receive a 20% bonus, there was an indication of unequal treatment of the category of insurers if those who started working early cannot continue working. The conditions for retirement are also different for individual categories, for example, so someone who started work before the age of 18 will meet the conditions for retirement and thus the right to a 20% bonus earlier than the one who started work at the age of 25 and is, I don't know, employed as a professor. Perhaps it is just that these 20 percent are designed not to double the status of those who meet the conditions for retirement — because the essence of our system for the last pension reform is not to force anyone to retire, but to say that the minimum conditions are relatively low, and from here on we stimulate the individual to postpone retirement in accordance with his or her ability, if only the sea. However, we stimulate him with a higher pension, stimulating him to receive 20 percent of his pension in addition to his salary just to postpone his retirement. This is, of course, a savings; this person stays employed, pays full contributions and receives 20 per cent of the pension, compared to if he retired, would not pay contributions and receive 100 per cent of the pension. I hope I've made myself clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, you know I appreciate your expertise and I bow to your expertise, but let's take a closer look. I want to know how things work in life. How on a theoretical level, how on paper, I don't care – how in life! There is a inn in our village, there are 160, 165 households in our village and now you tell me how to keep the innkeeper open for two hours a day? Does it work or does it not work? If I understand what you're saying. How's that gonna work? Will guests laugh, will everyone laugh, or will everyone cry — how will this work? So theoretically yes, it is possible; it has 75 percent of the pension, two hours a day will be operating time. Please, if you can explain this to me, because the one I'm talking about, of course, with names, he's already said he's going to be 31. 12. closed the inn all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u90	Tell this gentleman no one's forcing him to shut down. If he stays active, if he doesn't retire, he'll get a higher pension, he'll be fine. For the most part, those who were independent entrepreneurs have been told to do so today, over 90 percent of them pay the lowest possible contributions and have correspondingly low pensions. However, if he decides to retire and maintain the activity, he will have the possibility, in accordance with the new proposal, to remain active for only two hours a day and receive a pension for 6 hours. Of course, we both know, the inn is probably more open than 2 hours a day, it's probably, in which case he'll have to have someone to work with, but he'll have to work after hours because he'll be employed. You have to separate, the insurance time, which is important in terms of the recognition of rights, from the point of view of the payment of contributions, and the working time of its employees. However, he has an open activity, he can keep the inn open even if he retains the activity for only two hours a day. I hope I've made myself clear, and if not, we'll continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u92	But I don't understand why we limit people if they want to work. Someone who created himself a job, that is, if we continue with this innkeeper, why don't we let him keep working, and if he has fulfilled all the conditions for his pension at the same time. He earned his pension, regardless of whether he paid high or low contributions, he earned his pension. Let's just let people work if they want to work. And that's his advantage, because he created this job himself. I don't know why we're so restrictive, I don't know why we're afraid that some people would make more money with their work, I don't know why we have such stupid obstacles in our country, and I don't know why some professors can keep doing it, but to this man, the innkeeper or anyone else who has their own trade, we're preventing him from doing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I give the floor again to the representative of the Government, Mr Peter Pogacar, to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you for that question. Again. We don't force anyone to retire, he has a chance; he has a chance. While we do not force him, not only do we not force him, we encourage him to maintain his activity, to remain active, because it is good for his psychophysical health, if you want, not least, not so carelessly, even for the sustainability of the pension fund, that people retire as soon as possible. For this purpose, it is also stimulated later by a higher rate of retirement. Again, there was a show in public that at 31. 12. We urge independent entrepreneurs to shut down their activities. Absolutely not! We should close it already under a law adopted in December 2012 in the National Assembly, which is why we have extended the period twice, and now we are bringing them a systemic solution that is the same for all, and we are not forcing them to retire, but they have the opportunity to receive 75 per cent of the pension and 25 per cent to maintain their activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there are still wishes. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much, because I'll be very brief. You said the ministry doesn't just agree to double status, which is a pensioner and at the same time a singer, because it gives us a pension system based on solidarity. I understand, I support, but once he's calculated his pension, the algorithm for calculation probably contains this solidarity – doesn't it? It's contained. Therefore, even if he is a 100 % pensioner, receiving 100 % pension and doing business, even though he is already a 100 % pensioner, he is also solidarity with all other pensioners. Back to the innkeeper. I'm sorry I took this case, but it's out of my life. You said he was gonna have to hire someone. Here's life again. But life is one that demands a calculation of how he will hire one to know how much he has to pay, and he actually sells a thousand litres of wine from his vineyard, as much as it is a year's worth. It's not working! It goes theoretically, of course, you hire someone, it works, but when you take the pencil and the paper, then you find out you're on the minus, then you won't go in your own minute. Life is like that. But life is minus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Here we may have to imagine a little more plastic this solidarity system of our pensions. Our pensions don't work like you've been paying 40 years and that money's on the line, and when you retire, you get a chance to pick it up. That's not what this is about. The thing is, while you're working, you're paying for those who've retired. If we go after this innkeeper. Nobody's forcing him to retire. He can work on it. So if he doesn't want to close the inn, if he can't hire anyone, if he's healthy and everything -- he's just working on it if he wants to. Now, with this change, he can get an additional 20 percent of this pension, while his pension rises, up to a maximum of 12 percent — at three months, it seems to me that after 41 years of work, one percent and so on, up to 12 percent. In short, he's getting more sanitization. No one's forcing him to shut anything down or stop doing it. Whoever wants to work is working on it. However, since we have a system of solidarity, after the already adopted law of 2012 it means that you are retired or retired, that you can no longer work. Now we give them the opportunity to work, of course, with some alignments. Another reason why this law is important or in what way is good is that when you reach all the conditions for retirement and are somehow forced to do so, to retire, it is very stressful for many. I remember my aunt, when she went to bed, she couldn't sleep, she couldn't eat, it was horrible her health. For such people, it is very nice to be able to work, say, for two hours or four hours, and for the rest, they receive a pension. It is, therefore, even more than encouraging working people to be as active as possible, given that our population is ageing, that we have fewer and fewer insured persons per pensioner. But it's also good that you go to retirement gradually, get used to a new life, slowly let go of your previous life. Not only is the financial and sustainability aspect of this law good, it is also a psychological aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you, Vice President. Hello, everyone! If we look at the basics and reasons for these changes that we are considering today, we see that something has to be done. In the last six years, the number of insured persons has been declining and, after the adoption of the pension reform in 2012, the number of pensioners has also increased. In 2013, as many as 80 percent of people retired after ZPIZ-1, another 60 percent in 2014. The pensioner-insurance ratio was also 1:1,37, which suggests that it is a difficult relationship to do something about it. I think that the two systems that we have been discussing for some time now are systems that, for my understanding, encourage a person to stay in a working relationship for a long time, this is a 20 per cent supplement if you continue to be employed after you have already fulfilled the conditions for retirement, including early, or double status, if you make sure that you are insured for at least two hours. So I think you've got a lot of choices to choose, or you'll work two hours, three hours, four hours, and then you'll receive a proportional pension, and you can choose to stay fully insured. It is said that you will work full-time and receive another 20 percent of your pension – I think that this is just one broad diapozone so that each individual, including every single individual, can choose the most optimal option for himself and thus keep his activity going. I'm sure it's not a limiting factor, but it could be a greater choice and you just decide to make the right one. I would like to point out that the analogue countries also do not have an unlimited dual status. All countries have certain limitations, whether age or profit restrictions, so it seems to me that the condition for you to maintain a double insurance base is that you pay contributions for two hours, a compromise. But I think next year, when we discuss the White Paper, there will be room and time to discuss this dual status again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 7 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President. You're not going to be bad, look, people, citizens and citizens are following us, I'm going to say honestly that I'm not going to discuss this amendment, but I don't have a second chance of putting it out here in public, and I'm going to send it to the ministry. Here a gentleman asks me or asks me to ask Mr Pogačar: "Why does ZPIZ not wish to enforce my judicial decisions of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana since 17. Ten. 2012, which is why I'm out of retirement for the third year?" I very much ask that the Ministry responds to this gentleman, Mr Pogacar, and I am forcing this e-mail for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Peter Pogacar, to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you. Otherwise it is a bit unusual that at a meeting of the National Assembly – but, absolutely! What you said, of course, shouldn't be happening. I ask you to forward me this email or, if the gentleman directly turns to the Ministry, and we will immediately look at what is on the matter, of course in cooperation with the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u105	Anyone else wants to discuss Article 26 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Access to Public Information, an ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The main objective and purpose of this law's proposal or the amendment of the law is to implement the provisions of the Directive on the re-use of information of a public nature, the essence of which is that the data produced within the public sector, which the public sector keeps in its records, its registers and its databases, are made available for the re-use of the wider sector, including the private sector. In this way, it is possible to re-use, process, refine and also represent some kind of capital for the development of the wider public sector, and the European Commission is even evaluating this capital to some EUR 10 billion of possible value added. We would also like to further encourage the authorities not to charge this re-use of the data, because we believe that the data is public good, that they are available to the general public, and that they are created in the context of the implementation of the public tasks of these authorities, while at the same time they must be offered to the public, businesses in an easy way in their original so-called machine-readable code via the global web. While the law also provides for the possibility of some exemptions for charging, only where the authorities which store such data or have also created them for their basic activity derive a large part of the revenue from other sources, not just from budgetary sources, and this is treated as a special exception. It is also important that we include museums, libraries and archives in the re-use regime by means of a bill, but again with the exceptional effect that only those materials that do not have an intellectual property holder and can therefore be regarded as public goods or public data. The Ministry of Public Administration is also preparing an action plan and more, we can say that we are already carrying out activities to make this information as widely available as possible through our NIO portal and also through many others. However, in future practice, we will continue to adopt and specifically publish data on websites, not only publish them, but also promote and interpret their further use. In addition to the financial transaction data, for example, the Public Payments Authority published them in 2014, this bill also provides for the publication of data when the recipients are a natural person when it comes to authors' fees or payments on the basis of advisory contracts. Let me say that, at this time of drafting, we have also been able to obtain an internationally approved special purpose code that will allow such data, which has been the subject of several public debates in the past, to be easily excluded. In cooperation with non-governmental organisations, we have also taken the initiative to clearly record, through the amendment tabled to Article 10, that the obligation of pro-active transparency is subject not only to information relating to public procurement but also to information relating to public procurement. With this, we have equalized these two categories of publication so that there will be no doubt. Let me conclude that I am coming from Brda today, where we had a consultation of Informatics in public administration, where more than 400 participants from both the public sector and the business sector have shown a great interest in cooperation with public administration, with the country, with a great interest in looking at and obtaining those data that they can use to develop their own activities. With the last activities we carried out with the Sunday creation of the state computer cloud 14 days ago, we have launched the so-called e-government, we are actually implementing those measures in concrete terms, and we are ensuring those conditions that will also allow public access to data in everyday life. We believe that we are going in the right direction and that this cooperation between the state administration, the private sector and the general public is essential and brings new quality. This too is what these novels or changes in marriage bring. At the same time, allow me to propose that the second and third examinations of the proposal of the law be brought together at this meeting and that we conclude the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u107	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u108	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is held at its 14th session. 11. In 2015, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration, was considered as the parent working body. The Committee was informed of the following material, namely the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council for State Regulations. The amendments were tabled by the SDS Group, the SMC Group, Desus and SD and the amendment by the Joint Left Group. The representative of the proponent, the Minister of Public Administration, stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the main objective of the proposal is to increase transparency in the functioning of the public sector in general and, in particular, to re-use the data and also to regulate the charging system for the re-transmission of data. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion and also stated that the other comments made by the PSC concerned in particular the clarity and specificity of the text of the bill were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups or that appropriate written explanations and additional explanations were provided by the proposer. A representative of the National Council of State's Committee for National Procedures presented the opinion of the Commission and said they supported the proposed law. In its position on the draft law, the Information Officer stressed that she supported it by bringing a number of good solutions, but expressed her concerns about Article 24 of the draft law, which, in the proposed form, intensifies the scope of charging the costs of the provision of information of a public nature. A representative of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs and a representative of Transparency International also joined the opinions of the Information Commissioner in their presentations. In the debate, members of a committee of coalitions and opposition Members also highlighted the issue of the permissibility of charging access costs and the re-use of information of a public nature. While they agreed that the majority of the solutions to the bill were appropriate, in terms of costing, the view prevailed that the proposed extent of their charging was inadequate and that the coalition members had also announced support for the amendment of the United Left to Article 24 of the bill. The Committee then adopted all amendments other than the amendments of the United Left Group to Article 28, but did not vote on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 8, as it became irrelevant. He then voted on all the articles of the bill together and also adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u109	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Whenever it interferes with the law on access to information of a public nature, we are asked what impact it will have on those who owe it to the public and what solutions it will bring to those who wish to have information. Especially since the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines that an individual has the right to access information of a public nature. And this time it's no different. The Act on Access to Public Information specifies the constitutional provision, which we consider to be public control over the functioning of the State and state authorities. In this respect, the Commission notes that in the present case, the Commission considers that the State or municipalities have not been able to provide information to the public on the basis of the information provided by the State or by the public authorities in question. The Novela E, which we are considering today, is a more substantive novel. The novelist assures us that these amendments follow Directive 2013/37-EU amending Directive 2003/98-EC on the re-use of public information. Under this Directive, museums, libraries and archives are also included in the re-use regime. But only for that material where no third party is entitled to intellectual property rights. The news also encourages the proactive online publication of freely available databases of machine-readable formats. We ask ourselves, however, whether technological information systems can ensure that more resources will need to be allocated in the future to upgrade this system, especially when we listen to the warnings of individual authorities that they have outdated information technology. Nor is it possible to ignore the fact that the rules for charging the re-use of information, data or databases are also changing. The drafter of the amendment shall provide the results of the analyses of the revenue of public sector entities. It is stated that, within the framework covered by the Public Information Procedures of the State Authorities and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, the number of procedures for requesting the re-use of public sector information is relatively low compared to the procedures for requiring access to information and that, since 2005, when the data was re-used in the law, most of the authorities under this Title have had no income. On this basis, the applicant concludes that this law will have no major financial implications. Nor will the amendment of the law bring additional resources to these bodies. As the contractor assures, the basic guide remains that the average requirement for access or re-use must be free of charge and that charging the costs of transmission is an exception and not a rule and can only take place within limits that still allow the effective exercise of the right of access to information of a public nature. We will support the proposed amendment of the Public Information Access Act because we agree with many that it brings positive solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u111	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! On 28 September we received the 12th Slovenian government. One of the main reasons why this government is designed as it is was the promise of a different policy, an increase in transparency and an in-depth dialogue with civil society. We have been in a bit of a schizophrenic situation since the start of the government's mandate. On the one hand, the government often talks about how it advocates transparency and democracy, and on the other hand, the same government, with every step it takes, denies its position. The amendment to the Law on Access to Public Information, which is before us, constitutes exactly the same situation. First, it should be pointed out that the right to access information of a public nature is a constitutional right, which is clearly enshrined in Article 39. However, the Public Information Access Act allows the exercise of this right. This is a rare law that is an example of good practice abroad. However, despite the fact that the promise of a more transparent functioning of the State was one of the main reasons for the victory of the Peace Cerar Party at the elections at that time, the government prepared a new law that is diametrically contrary to the promises made. The government has proposed that information of a public nature become marketable goods and the solution has tried to justify the amendment of the law due to the implementation of the European Directive. Although the main part of the law is indeed due to the directive, the contested amendment to Article 34 had nothing to do with it. The purpose of this amendment is only one: to give the public authorities a basis to avoid the provision of information of a public nature by charging high costs. In order to limit the constitutional right of access to information of a public nature, the information authority, the NGO centre and Transparency International have been alerted on the parent committee. Due to the proposed change, even the protest was organised, the petition was signed, and all Members were invited not to support the contentious changes. And what happened? Another performance for the public by representatives of the government and the coalition. After three hours of discussion, the coalition listened to the opposition of the profession and supported the amendment we drafted in the United Left. Thus, the public was reassured and the law on the home committee was confirmed. Immediately thereafter, the National Assembly coalition tabled an amendment which, in addition to charging material costs, also re-examines the possibility of charging labour costs. Today, of course, the professional and interested public cannot participate, they cannot point out the harmful consequences of such a change. It's another extremely untransparent maneuver. To make it easier to imagine what such a change might mean, let us take a concrete example. Some time ago, journalists used the requirement to access information of a public nature to detect irregularities in the conclusion of copyright contracts in colleges. We can imagine it's information that colleges would prefer to keep to themselves. With an amendment to the coalition, that's exactly what they'd be able to do. It's very simple. The amendment provides for the possibility that public information authorities will also charge labour costs. Some ministries estimated the cost of one hour's work to be 20 euros. These authorships were about 5,000. If the university had issued a dizzying bill to the press for this reason, it would probably not have been able to settle it, and the faculty would not have had to disclose the contracts. Of course, the government is well aware of this, because it is because of these contracts that the former Minister of Education has resigned. The government's interest was therefore clear and the disagreement between the professional and interested public was entirely in place. Fortunately, all stakeholders found out in time what kind of maneuver the coalition had afforded. For we were again called upon to reject the amendment of the coalition and at the last minute the coalition changed its mind and the amendment withdrew. In the United Left, we will now support the bill without a controversial amendment. However, we remind the coalition that it is high time for it to begin to fulfill its pre-election promises and cease its duality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Information of a public nature today constitutes a category that provides the basis for the public functioning of state institutions and other authorities with data in their operations. Therefore, public interest prevails as the highest form of citizen participation in the management of public affairs. This is a constitutional category which, with some exceptions, allows the acquisition of such information. This must be freely accessible as well as its re-use. The weighting of the public interest and the interest of the body with individual information is always a thin segregated, and therefore it must not be left to the subjective judgment of those who decide whether or not this is information of a public nature. Nor can they charge for the re-use of such information. The new law on access to information of a public nature on the permissible extent of charging access costs and the re-use of such information brings improvements. It is right that only material costs can be charged for their intervention, but not the possible costs of the work of public servants. If we want this institution to become even more established in practice, to become part of the citizens' awareness that it can also indirectly influence the management of individual public affairs, then it must be made available to the widest possible circle of citizens and must not represent a financial burden for applicants. We need to know that the information already available to the Authority does not require further processing or collection. It is true that some national authorities had to invest large amounts of money in order to establish certain larger databases and that the amendment provides for a transitional period of two years when they can still charge the price of re-use of the data. However, after 2017 their revenue under this heading will have to be replaced in the budgets. In New Slovenia, we believe that those applicants who make profits on the market should also pay the price of re-use of public information. If such an undertaking so requests information, especially if the material to which it relates is very extensive, it would be appropriate to pay for it. Christian Democrats also advocate access to information relating to bank data, where applicants often do not receive sufficient information, even though these relate to a wider public interest. The same is true for archive material, which would be easier or faster accessible if digitised, as we have proposed many times before by Christian Democrats. Here again we suggest that the entire Udba archive be published online. Of course, in accordance with European standards or covered with sensitive personal data. Given that this amendment to the Act on Access to Public Information also constitutes a transposition of the European Directive, which enforces the right to use freely accessible information of a public nature or other freely accessible material to any interested re-user, we will support New Slovenia's proposal for a law, although the Government has been delaying the transposition of the Directive for a period of six months.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u116	Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information implements the Directive of the European Union on the re-use of public sector information and thus guarantees to anyone the right to make easy and effective use of freely available data. It is a matter of re-use of those data generated in the functioning of public sector bodies and which, in accordance with the work process, are later elevated in order to obtain new value for profit or non-profit purposes. Transparency and data opening lead to greater efficiency in the public sector and also leads to progress in the digital economy and the development of entrepreneurship. The draft law introduces provisions to extend the obligation to publish the recipient of funds online to the Public Payments Authority also to the natural person, in those cases where the remuneration of the author's fees and advisory contracts is concerned. The duty of proactive online publication of information relating to public procurement or public procurement when it comes to the allocation of grants and loans from State or municipal budgets also contributes significantly to greater transparency in the use of public funds and, last but not least, to the fact that the State can listen to the initiatives and warnings of NGOs or civil society. The Directive, as it is said, encourages the free transmission of data on re-use via the Internet. The idea of easier accessibility, which will burden as little as possible the public institution that owns this information while at the same time being friendly to the user, is, according to the SMC Group's assessment, the right idea. Undoubtedly, it can stimulate both economic growth and employment growth. The SMC Group also welcomes the appropriate resolution of the question of the re-use of information in archives, libraries and museums. These are cultural institutions that are rightly privileged by this law. It should be stressed that this is an extremely rich treasure of cultural heritage, which is underexploited, especially when it comes to archives, which have existed for a good century and have acquired information of a public nature on various media from all possible creators of today's and former public administrations or public service. Information, especially when made available online and structured in databases, is important for culture, education, science and research. They can also be a market product or commodity, in combination with different databases, the latter in the information age in which we live can lead to great possibilities for new and new products. If such information is, in principle, free of charge, except for certain exceptions provided for in the law, these solutions, which are embodied in this law, cannot be disputed. For this reason, of course, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u118	Madam Vice-President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With the initial Act on Access to Public Information, the National Assembly has legally regulated the constitutional right of everyone to information of a public nature. The Slovenian Constitution provides in Article 39 that everyone has the right to receive information of a public nature for which he has a legitimate interest in the law, except in cases provided for by law. The Public Information Access Act also allows citizens to have the constitutional right set out in Article 44, which refers to the direct and indirect participation of citizens in the management of public affairs. The adoption of this law, which we have on our hands today, will, inter alia, be a step towards greater harmonisation of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the law of the European Union. The purpose or main objective of this Act is to ensure the public and openness of the functioning of the bodies and to enable the equal exercise of the right of all natural and legal persons to obtain information of a public nature and to strengthen transparency and responsible conduct in the management of public funds and through the financial means of business entities under the dominant influence of persons of public law. The authorities and entities must also, on the basis of this law, endeavour to ensure that the public, such as individuals, the media and associations, is as well informed as possible about their functioning. In particular, they are bound by the provisions of the law governing pro-actively transmitted information of a public nature on the world web. In the Desus Group, we welcome this law because increasing transparency in the functioning of the public sector, both in the case of regulatory procedures and in the case of the use of public funds itself, is an essential objective of the bill. We are aware of the importance of the open and transparent functioning of all public sector bodies, and this is further enhanced by new measures. In the Group of Members, we estimate that all the articles in the paper are particularly important, which reinforce the degree of transparency in the use of public funds, as transparency is essential in this area. The new obligation to publish the recipient of funds online will also extend to the natural person when it comes to advisory contracts and authors' fees. It will also require proactive online publication of information related to public procurement or public procurement, which civil society or non-governmental organisations have pointed out. However, the work relating to changes in the accessibility and re-use of information of a public nature follows the European Directive. We support the bill in the Parliamentary Group. We believe that different databases in this information age can lead to new developments. As assessed by the European Commission, various public data have been assessed as an important source for the growth trend of the European economy and a driver for innovation development. As has already been said, we will support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The amendment to Article 8 that we have drawn up in the United Left is in some ways a two-layer or two of the solutions that we are proposing in this law. However, it is also linked to the degree of transparency of the government. The text of Article 8 of the amendment infringes Article 10 of the current law and sets out which information the authorities currently need to publish on their websites. The novelty of this information of a public nature shall also add information on the participation of external experts in the preparation of the rules. This is one of the key points which should be an integral part of each bill. In the United Left we have also tabled in the National Assembly a proposal for recommendations to the Government to increase the level of transparency and we can already make one piece of these recommendations here. What am I talking about? Here we can do a quick analogy. The National Assembly, as legislator, publishes on its websites all documents relating to the legislative procedure. Of course, we cannot say that about the Government. The amendment that we have tabled seeks to encourage precisely this increase in transparency or the publication of additional information in these proposals. Thus, the amendment proposes that, in addition to the information on the name or name of the external expert, the amount of payment received for that purpose be made public. In addition, we propose that the Government also make public the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the legislation and any comments of the opinion and proposals relating to the procedure for the adoption of the act. In short, the part where the professional and interested public participated in the drafting of the law. This first part of the amendment, the introduction of this information, in a way ensures a consistent implementation of the so-called legislative trail, which, of course, is supported by both the government and the ministry itself. Specific calls following the consistent implementation of this legislative follow-up shall be made 17. 6. The Ministry of Public Administration also responded and supported these activities. Ensuring a greater degree of transparency also through the enforcement of the legislative trail. Otherwise, the press release stated that the Government is already incorporating certain data into the draft laws, as stipulated by the Rules of Procedure of the Government with the chapter Showing public participation in the draft law. This is in some way a kind of diversion, because this chapter contains those comments and suggestions from the professional and interested public or should, and by no means indicated who has participated in the drafting of the law, as the legislative trail commands. So often we miss a clear sentence or a clear statement that this and this lawyer's office or that outside expert participated in the bill. We believe that such data are crucial and in some ways also realize what is the spirit of this legislative follow-up, in short, cooperation or at least public control over the work of the government. Currently, this information can be obtained with some skills and ingenuity through a legislative monitor and data that can be understood from lobbyist contacts, but these data are not entirely direct. Although the government has adopted already January this year a programme of measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption for the period 2015-2016. Among these measures is the introduction of the rules of the legislative trail. As a method of implementation in this document, it is laid down that 'the obligation to state the authorship of the whole text or of individual provisions shall be imposed when the text of the draft act is prepared by an external expert — a natural or legal person of private law — in the explanations of the proposal in the legislative procedure.' This is a quote from a document published and prepared by the Government. Thus, we are essentially trying to help the coalition or government to fulfil this commitment, and we expect our coalition parties to support it. The amendment also proposes a second point, and this is to publish all the comments, opinions and proposals that have been submitted to the draft law in the context of the public presentation of the act. If we look at the resolution on normative activities, we will quickly see that few proposals are adopted in a way that allows public participation. Since the beginning of the mandate, this government has violated the resolution 330 times and in only 43% of cases, the acts have been adopted in an appropriate manner and in only 43% of cases the public has actually had the opportunity to participate in the drafting of the regulation. This is the point where we find that the Government has some transparency issues, and we have seen this in recent times in the laws coming into the National Assembly, where many times our legislative and legal services say that the government's proposals for laws are nomotechnically inadequate, and some even have concerns about the constitutional nature. This is why we are also talking in this amendment about the public publication of opinions by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on legislation as an obligation. It would be clear from this how well these opinions are taken into account by the ministries. Only one and a simple objective is pursued, and this is to achieve an improvement in legislation and the fight against urgent legislative reforms, which is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty as one of the five key baselines. It happens that laws come to the National Assembly, which then the National Assembly with extensive amendment, so to speak, should I use that word, to correct.If we really want better legislation, legislation that will also provide better legal certainty for all who are concerned by this legislation is also a public publication of opinions by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the legislation of one of the mechanisms which can contribute to this. With this amendment, we are trying to slightly increase the level of transparency with which the government operates. And not just this government, I'm talking about any government in this position. For this reason, I propose that the coalition, in particular the coalition Members, think about helping the government's own commitments, in short, by reaffirming this amendment, to increase the level of transparency.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment to Article 24 of the SMC, DeSUS and SD groups was withdrawn from the list of Members of the SMC, DeSUS and SD. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is why we are moving to the debate on Article 28 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to discuss the amendment? Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you. This is about a minor change. In fact, the amendment proposes deleting Article 28 because it provides that the annual report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Public Information would be sent to the National Assembly by the Government only for two years. We do not see any particular reason here for this to happen in such a way, it is biennial, but by deleting the amendment we achieve that, in fact, these annual reports, not least are annual and not biannual, are sent to the National Assembly every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Dr. Ducky, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Since we have time, I'm going to put the matter a little bit into the historical context. We had one full mandate of the Ministry of Information Society, at the time the LDS was still relatively strong, little thought they might privatise Telekom. But if we look at some historical retrospective, the Law on Access to Public Information is the most important and important asset of this ministry by Dr. Gantard and his team, which is recognized by the foreign, after all, that this was a relatively good, relatively modern written law, which apparently corresponds to some policy in power. Mate Matthew is the subject of some reports or annual or two years, another matter that is very questionable and from the United Left's point of view is unacceptable for those who want this information of a public nature to have to pay some hours of work, I will say positively, bureaucrat, according to some items they will prepare. If we support this new policy, which some have full mouth, it is in some contradiction to what they say. If we want this society, I'm just going to quote Cankar, if we're going to do "cleaning and rejuvenation" in this society, then we definitely need a well-functioning instrument of this kind that will, in the broadest sense, make it possible for the public to have access to information of a public nature without somehow penalising it if you want to have this information, you will pay. A similar issue has been addressed in the area of consumer rights protection. In short, some very strange practice that is trying to introduce itself through this coalition. If I repeat, it is a very good idea at the beginning, a good law that this society actually needs because of many kleptopathic practices. Yesterday we asked Prime Minister Cerar about this famous acquisition of wire, because it turns out that we have a half-employee company there in Žalec at the same address as the local SMC committee, which procures this dangerous matter especially for my Belokranje. And such instruments are instruments that enable us to trigger this information after all, but not to behave to us there as that of Inspector Mumbly of the drawing about Inspector Mumbly, who tells us something so small and doesn't tell us anything different. I would like to point out that it is necessary to recognise the importance of this law, that any amendment to this law, although it is essentially not a matter of constitutional matter, should be introduced and implemented with a shaking hand, as it is said, and not limited to the accessibility of many stakeholders to obtain information of a public nature. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Given that all these dilemmas that you are exposing to Members of the United Left have already been widely exaggerated and elaborated, however, I do not want to see Members or the public exonerating these statements or somehow difficult to understand them. There is a law before you that free opens up significantly better than before information of a public nature, but we listen as if we are trying to hide information and I am somehow confused because the purpose of the law is completely different. As far as annual reporting is concerned, this may only warn that the information will be complete, that the information officer prepares comprehensively comprehensive information each year on the use of public-sector information of a public nature, or that we can increase the bureaucratic burden and impose it on the government, but this information is already prepared today. As regards the charging of working hours around which there were many speeches, this information should also be provided for the sake of correctness, so that information of a public nature is also committed to all companies with the dominant influence of the country. It may be most understandable to say, in the case of our ministry, that we have faced a demand that one of the great partners over the last ten years should prepare all correspondence, all the contracts and everything we have dealt with with them, which would in fact mean one trailer of information. It's okay. That is what we will do if it is necessary and because that is what the law has foreseen. However, with that statement, we wanted only such extreme cases, whose borders were set very high, to be limited in some way, because we need to know that the right to access information of a public nature is indisputable and that the authority must also carry out its basic activity without question, even though such cases often make it impossible. With regard to the transparency of the public procedure itself, as well as as those already well-known, any regulation that receives an EVA number at the earliest stage has been published with all these indications, including who is involved in the preparation, a possible legal office and so on, in the PIS system, is stated in the legal and information system of the Republic of Slovenia, in which, from the very beginning, it is precisely stated in the government procedure, the whole data type is published on the portal and on e-democracy. So the information you are asking for is actually published today. However, there has been a lot of talk about how much internal correspondence within the government we are obliged to report publicly, and here I think it has also been very well explained and qualitatively explained. The information we obtain when preparing the law is exchanged with various stakeholders within the government, within the public, are written, oral, through portals, through correspondence, and it is simply impossible to ensure the publication of all this information. And secondly, the information that we coordinate within government services is information within government services. The proposal drawn up by the Government is a proposal drawn up by the Government as a collective body and, with all the necessary explanation, also provides for a further procedure. We believe that transparency is by no means compromised and that we are already very much implementing this proactive transparency and that these requirements that you have are already being met.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I find that there are still wishes to discuss, so please apply. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you, Chairman for your word. I cannot agree with what she has put forward in her position, the United Left and then the Members directly in the debate. They have also been present on the working body and have also received material that indicates that both the information officer and the civil public are extremely insistent on the fact that the law is excellent, that it brings very good solutions in this area, and therefore, by no means, what they have said does not hold back and means whether they have not read it or not heard it. Let me focus only on the element they point out that when certain costs are charged, this means that transparency is lifted and that it tries to hide something. That doesn't hold up again. Let's take a look at the comparable arrangement. In fact, we do not charge information of a public nature, except for a certain amount. What was the wish to settle in this case, the minister has already said. That this is an exceptional situation where the authorities that do not have enough employment or if this is an additional excessive burden for them can – therefore, conditionally, but not compulsory – also charge the costs of work, on average, about 20 A-format sheets are required for us. What we wanted to do with the amendment, which was later withdrawn mainly because of pressure, we still have professional support for it and we think it is justified, but it applied to a fifteen-folder of this amount, so that cases where someone requests up to 10,000 documents or 8 metres of material that has happened in practice can also be charged to those organisations that are not direct budget users. This is not only about the public sector, which is budgeted, but it can also be about other organisations that are not part of the public sector. As I said, this is a comparable arrangement, which is regulated both in the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Federal Republic of Germany and Malta, even in countries that are democratic countries, and I do not agree to this position, which you so vehemently express. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you. Apparently, we weren't all on the same boards. The minister said the government already allows access to information of a public nature. So why did the government write the law twice in the first place in this way and then table an amendment that would charge the cost of the work. Today's amendment, which was prepared for this plenary session, was withdrawn only yesterday evening after the Ombudsman had once again warned Transparency International that you were trying to restrict the right to access information of a public nature. And here again is the matter of misbehaviour, Mr. Secretary-General. You may excuse yourself for the abuse that comes to certain offices too many of these requests and that this hinders normal work. We also know, and this has also been part of the debate on the labour force that there are already safeguards for such abuses, where such bullying of public officials and also of public institutions can be prevented in the event of requests for access to information of a public nature. However, I think it is also very eloquent or necessary to mention that we now have an illegal regulation on the transmission and re-use of information of a public nature, to which the professional public also warns, suspicion is such that the law itself has changed so that the law reflects not the other way around. Of course, I stress that in the United Left we are happy that this amendment has been removed or that you have withdrawn it, but not now attached to it as a basic intention, but it is only because the professional public has repeatedly warned about what you are trying to do. And this is in some way limiting both transparency and access to information of a public nature. I wouldn't attach it to me as a medal, but I would have let this thing go, in a way, silently, instead of talking vehemently about how this government is trying and striving for transparency, because that is simply not the case. And we've seen it in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Of course, the minister is one of the better rhetoricists of this government. But I agree with what Comrade Matthew said. And I can say I'm confused, too. This coalition tabled twice the amendments to charge costs and then withdrew it recently due to a number of comments made by the actors mentioned by Matthew. Mrs Kozlovich explained the view of the coalition. I was talking about accessibility. I was talking about restricting accessibility. These countries, after all, are richer than Slovenia, although I will say less egalitarian, given the distribution of social prosperity. I kind of feel like we're prejudging here. From what you've said, what the minister said in part, what was said – I watched the board's tapegram, I would think that most of the people here are looking for information of a public nature, some of them, like my students, patients. Someone who has a little bit of time, and then he's gonna be a little heavy, like they say. Far from it! Of course, certain authorities are overloaded, I will not go around the sectors here, but the best way to make this information relatively little is to make some processes even more transparent, to actually happen some new policy, which you so sing, to cut kleptoocratic corruption links. Look, in one of my narrow areas, information and communication technology is hard to find a ministry, an agency or a city council, or if I'm going to a brother's audit report to the Court of Auditors, where there wouldn't be a whole bunch of problems and problems. It seems to me that we must be aware of the basic purpose of this law, this access to information and not try to restrict it. Of course, now you've got this limitation on the stormy response and the pressure of the public to back off and spill your ashes and act like you're, I'll just say it at home, dudes, even though it would be better to be, as my colleague Matthew said, quiet about this or at least keep quiet. It is our job, however, that your leader of the parliamentary group has been very keen to say in recent times how to take on absolute responsibility, which is insulting to us Members and members of the opposition. After all, everyone here is supposed to take responsibility, absolutely, sounds a little undemocratic, but let us stand still, and act towards a better regulatory framework for this society and the country and, of course, address these major shortcomings that this society has created in a quarter of the century. And in this way, there will be less need, after all, to use an instrument of access to information of a public nature in a way that someone will be searching for some hiding, let's say right now with the Kings of the Street the best Slovenian medium under the line, which must always use this instrument again to get some information that the ministries or other offices hide or hide. That I will not be too long, let us be aware of the importance of this instrument, which we have put in our legal order a few years ago. But our job is what I said before, and then this information will also be of a more affirmative nature, that someone will want to get more information and then the bureaucrats won't have any problems, because usually some minister or secretary of state will ask them to shut up. And literally then we will have no problem with this and we will go into some improvements to such an instrument and such legislation in the direction of even greater transparency, as the Minister has said. We agree with him here after all. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. However, a little response needs to be made to these ferocious plazas coming from the United Left, which is absolutely unnecessary. [[advertising from the hall]] The amendment was please, if you could warn the gentleman that he will not disturb me during my implementation. [[…]] The amendment, however, was withdrawn. However, he was not as malicious as he would like to show up now with the help of a media race that is completely relaxed and directed against the government needlessly. The purpose of the law was by no means threatened, so that information of a public nature could be obtained by any citizen. It was only an additional mechanism that might be taken into account by those public and public authorities where this important instrument of access to information of a public nature is intended to abuse itself. Public administration authorities already have the possibility of charging costs on a specific procedure when it comes to excessive burdens of organs and possible misuse of the system, but these are relatively rarely used. The 2014 data show that out of more than 400 authorities, only 18 state authorities and ten municipalities charged costs, amounting to EUR 11 000 112 throughout the year. It is difficult to talk about any vampirised state or public bureaucracy that wishes to restrict citizens' rights to learn what information is found in public documents. Speaking of this unfortunate amendment that's been withdrawn. It was a matter of precision of a standard whereby the transmission of more than 300 pages of A4 data would in fact take into account, in fact, that a State or public authority could charge the costs of work. 300 pages of A4 format. It's a number that's actually even too big for a doctorate, they reject it at the university, or they say a smaller number of pages. 300 pages is free. If someone doubts that anything has been wrong with any public or state authority, 300 pages is entirely sufficient to obtain enough indictments to send a reasoned complaint to the competent authorities, which are, however, those responsible for the prosecution of crime, corruption and everything else that can happen, and it is happening. Unfortunately. She did, and she will. As old as bureaucracy is, there's corruption for as long as it takes. There is no way to claim that there has been an attempt by this amendment to maliciously restrict anyone. It is true, however, that a standard is laid down, according to which also public servants, who still have some other tasks, not only by preparing material for rightly knowledgeable citizens, so as not to be subject to any abuse. Because if someone, in a particular case, as was said on the committee, demanded eight running meters of material, we can already see it as some kind of abuse. This debate is totally unnecessary in this respect. The amendment was withdrawn because of the position of the information officer, as it has always been in practice, it is also understandable. This body protects the interest which also exists and is established and is perfectly legitimate. The concrete consequences will be demonstrated in practice. However, it is likely that the balance between different legitimate public interests will have to be assessed here, just as it has in every law. On the one hand, there is an interest in access to public information, and on the other, there is a legitimate public interest in preventing the misuse of this instrument and in reaching out to obvious pressures on the work performance of public servants, which must then devote excessive time because someone demands an unreasonable amount of this data. I think, once again, that this debate was unnecessary and that they are unnecessarily trying to Satanize some of the government's purposes or coalitions or anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Janko Weber, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Well, an amendment that has been tabled so that we can charge the material that is required of an individual who wants to obtain information of a public nature. Even if I hadn't been withdrawn, I wouldn't have supported it, because I'm actually assessing that this is a very clear intervention in the process of obtaining information of a public nature and if you just don't have enough resources, you can't get this information. In view of the fact that the Information Commissioner has also taken a very clear position on this, I think it is also right to say, however, that we commend her decisive act in order to maintain access to information of a public nature. Last but not least, we are at a time when we are faced with intertwining procedures, which often then try to blurt themselves out in a way that is a business secret, because it is an economic society, even though it is a society, I do not know, owned by a hundred percent of the state or partly owned by the state. In fact, we have already had a number of problems in obtaining information of a public nature. Finally, there is also a very extensive process ahead of us, which is carried out within the National Assembly, which is linked to the commission of inquiry in relation to the bank hole that was created in Slovenia. If, by chance, there is also a reservation in practice to continue this procedure, because the Court has initiated a constitutional dispute at the Constitutional Court concerning the law governing the parliamentary investigation, then we as Members, or as Parliament itself, may in fact be able to use the mechanism of access to information of a public nature. It may also result in unnecessary costs when requiring certain materials. Today we are also likely to vote on Mr Andrej Kraška's early discharge request from the post of Director of the Public Competition Agency. And last but not least, I do not think that this process can actually end simply by requiring someone to get rid of it, but when it was already involved in extremely difficult business sales processes, it is taking over businesses. It would be very embarrassing if we came into the situation to actually review the decisions that the Director requiring his discharge has issued and thus also make it impossible for the public to become aware of what this is about. Access to these decisions and insight into this Decision are very important so that we can also have a meaningful understanding of all that has taken place in taking over. On this occasion I would also point out Mercator's sale, which is one of those procedures that we can say that he was running really opaquely, untransparently. In fact, the agency was the last one to say whether or not the deal could be approved. And given that it is also a matter of selling the company to the new one, I will tell the owner, who within his structure also has food producers, i.e. his vertical organisation, means that in Slovenia they can lose access to the shelves of our farmers, our producers, and it is right to try to look at the content of these decisions, which the agency has led, so it is very important that we have as easy access to information of a public nature as possible. Even if the amendment had not been withdrawn, I would have voted against it, and I also welcome the decision to withdraw the amendment and, however, to allow access to information of a public nature to be significantly simpler than it would have been if the amendment had been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We are talking about the amendment to Article 28 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much. This amendment to Article 28 is undoubtedly also linked to the question of transparency and also the intentionality or maliciousness of certain acts. We've heard that it wasn't malicious, so this amendment wasn't filed maliciously. I wonder if the coalition parties' representatives are so firm behind this amendment, which was still in the system yesterday, why was it withdrawn today. Is this under pressure, or is this a rational decision, a sound decision? If so, I very much welcome the fact that I think the function of this Parliament is to talk and, in fact, we are also in some way coming to common solutions. Let this be a rhetorical question, but if someone does not take it that way, he can answer that. As far as abuse is concerned. This is one of these arguments, the current law on access to information of a public nature, Article 5, paragraph 5, stipulates, quote: "The applicant may exceptionally refuse access to the information requested if the applicant, with one or more functionally related requirements, manifestly misuses the right to access information of a public nature under this law or it is obvious that the requirements or requirements of a chicanosic nature are required." In short, the law already incorporates this guardian, who is called the definition of a chicanosic act, which prevents these abuses and, consequently, the excessive burdens of all those who must provide them, and I stress that they must provide information that must be made publicly available. I just don't accept these arguments. We can say that there is some bad feeling about this amendment or these two amendments that we're talking about. And I did not get rid of him at this point, but I am certainly glad that the matter has unraveled as it is, it is said that this amendment is no longer on the table and that we will not even vote on it, so the basic constitutional principle will also be fulfilled, indeed, the one set out in Article 39. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 28 and the amendment of the Joint Left? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I'm closing the debate. [[..]] The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 5.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u140	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 2.A point of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on Public Finance Balance under the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. This proposal for a law supplementing the Public Finance Balance Act refers to the addition of Zujf to the preservation of the fourth income class. The United Left and I are basically here with the government practically co-proposers of this law, but I would like to point out the following. We, together with unrelated Members, proposed an amendment to the Income Act because, at the time the mini tax reform prepared by the Ministry of Finance fell, it indicated that the fourth income class would fall along with it and that it would no longer fall in 2016. That is why we have proposed that, through the amendment of the Income Act, the fourth income class be made for a permanent income class, because from this account we get from 0.3% of the best paid people in Slovenia about 16 million euros in the budget, and in the year when the government will make the biggest fiscal effort that will amount to 0.6% of the structural balance, this money will still be in bloody need. We were convinced that the government would not oppose this proposal and that we would be able to accept a compromise that would essentially preserve the fourth income class that we have known so far. Unfortunately, the government came up with another proposal, which is seemingly similar but actually worse. According to our proposal, the 16 million we receive from the best-paid would go to the budget and we could finance any project from this 16 million. In the United Left we have proposed that this 16 million increase in minimum income, it is said that income would increase for the most socially disadvantaged, most vulnerable people in Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, the government has proposed the opposite, which will not put the 16 million among the poorest, but at the same time has changed the border between the second and third grades, meaning that it will redistribute the 16 million into wages 12% of the best paid people in Slovenia. This means that it is a redistribution of 12% of the best paid in Slovenia. We take 3.4 per cent of the best paid and place them between 10 per cent and 12 per cent of officials, managers and so on, in short, people with the highest wages. We oppose such a proposal, and we will therefore vote against it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u142	Is there any explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As I have foretold in the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – I repeat, I will vote against. It is quite amazing that we are regulating income such an important tax in the Public Finance Balance Act. This is that infamous Zuyf we heard a lot about when we were part of the coalition. Today, in fact, I am glad that the coalition confirms that this was an excellent project, that it was an extremely good law because you adopt it. It will even be sharper because you do not introduce a clause that any measure will be lifted when economic growth in the preceding year is 2.5% or more. We are opposed to the 50% income class, our competitiveness, who will even invest in Slovenia. And this marriage, colleagues and colleagues, is a guide for young professionals to go abroad. No one will work for you in the country today as a development engineer for a thousand 400 or a thousand 500 euros. The fact that we have listened to the praises that the middle class is unloading for 16 euros a month, look, this is really Pir's victory. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u144	We are voting on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Finance Balance under the urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 48 votes against 7. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the conclusion of the legislative procedure for a bill that was not the basis for the preparation of a possible complementary bill. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: a proposal for a law amending the Income Act, a reduced procedure submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Luke Mesec, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 12. 2015, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Articles 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, who voted 2 to 54. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendments to Articles 2 and 3 have become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Nova Slovenije Group to Article 7(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present and he voted in favour against 54. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7(2). We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present and he voted in favour against 54. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 1 to 54 votes in favour. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 20. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with a vote of 1 in favour of 55. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 26. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 26 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 8. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. Five were voted against and 48 were voted against. [[There were five votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 28. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. There were five for them, and there were 50 against them. [[There were five votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted for the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 57 were voted against and no one was against. [[57 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 58 votes in favour and no one was against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in cooperation with security before natural and other accidents. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 58 votes in favour and no one was against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the time of the day, this is a proposal for an act on the amendment of the act on the notification of the succession to the Union Conventions, the International Multi-Conference Agreements on Air Traffic, the Conventions of the International Organisation of Work, the Conventions of the International Maritime Organization, the Customs Conventions and certain other international agreements. The draft act was tabled by the Government. The draft act was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the act has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it's on the confirmation of the official clearance of the rail transport law. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Railway Law is confirmed. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Since the Head of the SDS Group, Jože Tanko, announced the absence of all members of the parliamentary group under Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that there are no candidates for the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Andrej Grah Whatmough to the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia as a member. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to make to the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant a member. Walter Drozg. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Early Resolution of the Director of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. The proposal for early discharge of the Director of the Public Agency for Competition Protection of the Republic of Slovenia is under consideration by the National Assembly 14. 12. tabled by the Government. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Not at all. We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Does any Member want a word? Not at all. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve Mr Andrej Krašek, Director of the Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, on 30th day. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against and no one against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the proposals for a decision by Members and Members to discuss the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Branca Grims in connection with the construction of the fence on our northern border. We're voting. There were 56 Members and Members present, and he voted in favour of 1 and 54. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Luke Mesco, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of the question of Luke Mesca on the statement of police officers. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again. I asked Prime Minister Cerar three simple questions yesterday. First, how much money were they able to find for strikers in the government on Sunday, secondly, why it's behind the wire fence, but not for people, and thirdly, how much this fence cost. This is not only our concern, it is of interest to all people in Slovenia, who have been waiting for an answer since the construction of this wire. I have, of course, come across silence or non-response, so I suggest that we discuss this in the National Assembly, because one of the main projects, unfortunately, remains financially wrapped in fog, and no one in this country knows how much this project has cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u146	We're voting. There were 57 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against and 49 votes against. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the establishment of a Schengen mini-area within the European Union. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Just for a little while. The idea of a mini-scheng did not grow in Novi Slovenije, the idea of a mini-scheng grew first in the Dutch government, according to the Dutch newspaper Telegraph. It is true that their government was sitting behind closed doors, so there was a closed meeting, but the Netherlands called on some countries in the core of Europe, Germany, Belgium, Austria, Luxembourg to consider establishing a mini Schengen. The key fact is that Slovenia is not in this mini Schengen, in this idea. In fact, I wanted to encourage the Prime Minister to make it clear at the European Council meeting on Thursday and Friday that the Heads of Government or Heads of State will make it clear what is now with this idea: whether they will cultivate it or will completely silence it. It is not permissible for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who are also citizens of the European Union, to suffer in some way, to be upset, to be insecure, or to be in the mini-schengen or to fail. This will be a great whip, if I may say so, for the citizens of our country, especially here I have in mind those daily and weekly migrants from Pomur, Slovenian Mountains, Koroška. There are about 18,000 who go daily or weekly to serve their bread in neighboring Austria. Here I also have in mind the Slovenian economy, especially exporters and also importers, who would be severely harmed by the establishment of a mini-scheng. However, not only the Dutch government spoke about this very loudly and clearly in an interview with the Belgian newspaper Echo, but also the head of the Eurogroup, Mr Jeroen Disselbloemm, who said that if we simply cannot manage the migration crisis as it is supposed to, in accordance with the Schengen Borders Act, a mini-schengen should be established. Mr President of the Eurogroup is not who you are and such an interview, we have to make such a statement, we have had to, and I suggest that we address it not one of the next meetings of the National Assembly, when the Prime Minister can also serve with a report on the content that will be discussed in the already mentioned European Council. I will support this decision because I think it is necessary to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u148	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, who voted in favour of 2 votes against 53. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of the question of the gas station by Ljub Žnidar. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with a vote of 1, against 54. [[For the vote was 1.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Iva Dimic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision:The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of the question of the question of the question of the Iva Dimic in relation to the implementation of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Iva Dimic, asked the Minister a very simple question: is the new Law on Marriage and Family Relations the legal basis for adoption of children into the same-sex partnership? The minister gave a mathematically exact answer that she did. It would be good, therefore, to propose a debate in the National Assembly to discuss how the State will allow the adoption of children into the same-sex partnership or more, in what way this coalition will actually bring into this National Assembly an additional 70 sectoral laws, for which the Constitutional Court finds that they will have to be amended in view of the possible implementation of this Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Of course I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u150	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with a vote of 1, against 54. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to the question of mag. Alenka Bratušek in relation to the medical situation. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present; he voted in favour of 1, against 48. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to Mr Zvon Lah's question on the management of bad claims in state banks. We're voting. There were 55 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 49. [[He didn't vote for anything.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question on respect for statutory deadlines. We're voting. 54 Members and Members were present, and no one voted against 52. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Bojan Podkrodška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, and Mr Boris Koprivnik, Minister of Public Administration, to Mr Bojan Podkorška's question on the costs of the public sector. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 50. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jana Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to Mr Jana Mahnič's question on the commitments made to the ties, then on the defence budget. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, and no one voted against 51. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of the question of the question of the question of the privatisation of Mr Mesca by Mr Adrio Airways Technik. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, for the last time today. I asked Mr Dusan Marble yesterday about the sale of Adria Airways Technika. We all know that it is essentially a fairly recognizable company with 200 employees, with a guaranteed future, with high added value and highly educated personnel who were on sale. Employees in this company also offered to take over workers. Of the total 200 employees, 150 collected EUR 5 million to buy back the company, but in the end the company was sold by Polish multinationals and workers, not only did they not get the purchase but they were bullied in the process, they were not entitled to increase the offer, they were not properly informed about the takeover process. I asked Mr. Marble yesterday about the other commitments written in the SDH law and in the management strategy. And he just couldn't answer. I conclude that other procedural matters have also been violated in this sales process. Which means that at the end of SDH did not perform its function, the finance minister did not perform the function of guardian of public interest, the workers were played, and the future of this company is at stake, which is important for both Slovenian air transport and Slovenian tourism. That is why I think that we, as the supervisory authority, need to discuss this process and I propose a general discussion on the Adria Airways Technician takeover procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u152	We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There were six votes for and 44 against. [[Six votes for them.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 14th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
