ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Violeta Tomić, Mrs Marinka Levičar, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Roberto Battelli, mag. Anže Logar, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Mr. Jožef Horvat, Mr. Luka Mesec and Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker. I invited representatives of the Council of State and representatives of the Government to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 30 November 2015 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. This is for a re-decision on the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. At its 18th extraordinary meeting on 25 November 2015, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act implementing the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 be reconsidered before the announcement. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Milan Ozimić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly! The proposal for your re-decision has been explained in writing, so I would not read this explanation particularly because I believe that you are aware of the essence of the problem raised by this veto. In fact, although this explanation exposes the four articles of the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2016 and 2017 as problematic, this is essentially a matter of more than one of these operational laws. The essence and non-conclusion of the State Council and as unacceptable behaviour in relation to the situation of municipalities or their funding is that this Law on the Enforcement of Budgets substantially interferes with the Systemic Law on the Financing of Municipalities and thus weakens the funding of municipalities to this extent that their operation is seriously compromised. [[…]] Seriously threatened, and of course, such continuation will soon raise the question of the existence of these congregations or the exercise of their constitutional function. So the problem is not just veto and this redecision and this law, but where such a way and such a path leads. That is the essence of the problem facing the State Council. The Council of State is also a representation of various interests in its composition, but that what is here, exposed as problematic, has come to know 32 from the entire composition or 34 present saints. Only two of them were against it. Of course, the State Council is not defined by some formal coalitions or whatever – positions and opposition, but by the essence of the problem. And this is also an indicator that points out here another reasonable thought that this problem is detected in its core, not only in some current decision on the dispute, but also in some laws that are very short-term in nature, two years and then shut down, so to speak. And the question is, if he doesn't make any changes in the meantime. The fact that these arguments still need to be further understood also proves the Court's audit report, which has taken these arguments into account, on the other hand, in the case of smaller municipalities, which, of course, are also with this ZIPRS or budgets, the budgetary decisions for these two years that we are dealing with are the most affected. Because the Law on Community Financing itself is somehow inadequate and it does not already cover these specifics of the social situation and economic situation of the municipalities in its essence. And whatever you decide today, this problem will not be eliminated. This problem will not be eliminated and the Government and probably the National Assembly will face it as soon as possible, as long as this situation lasts, the problem will be greater. However, as the congregations and the Association of Congregations warn, it leads to a collapse, a fallout, an inability to carry out legally defined, constitutionally determined obligations that the congregations have. Even if today's reflection is not successful from this point of view, which, of course, we really expect it to fail, at least think about how the Government, the minister responsible, and, of course, the Members, will solve this problem as soon as possible. Thank you for your word and that opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u3	The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 39th urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the request of the State Council, at its 39th urgent meeting, that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly 18. 11. 2015 at the 13th session. The Committee was given the request of the State Council and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. A representative of the State Council, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council, on behalf of the applicant, explained the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law and presented in detail the key arguments of the State Council. He stressed that no agreement had been reached between the Government and the municipalities, so the government set an average of EUR 522. He estimated that this was a large gap in terms of the amount that would allow the municipalities to carry out their tasks by law. He stressed that it is also problematic to reduce the funding for co-financing of investments, which is regulated by Article 55 of the proposed law. He pointed out, however, that systemic solutions would be needed in the future in this area. The Minister of Finance further presented the reasons why the Government considers that the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for both years is appropriate and stressed the need for the adoption of that law due to the smooth implementation of budgets in 2016 and 2017. In his presentation, he rejected the findings of the opinion of the Council of State. In addition, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained in the supplementary explanation of the opinion that the State Council's arguments in the request for re-decision relate to questions relating to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the arrangements to which the service cannot be defined, as they go beyond the scope of the tasks imposed on the Service by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The views of the members and members of the Committee on the appropriateness of the law were different in the debate. Some members and members of the committee expressed their dissatisfaction at the fact that the Government had not reached agreement with the municipalities, since it was a constitutional category and the municipalities had specific tasks under law. The question of the different calculations concerning the necessary average was also raised, both by the Government and by the municipalities. They noted that the structure of consumption due to the diversity of municipalities was different and that these issues would need to be systematically regulated. They highlighted the role of the municipalities as a social buffer and expressed the need for greater obedience for the needs of local communities. On the contrary, some members expressed support for a law which is a mandatory basis for the implementation and enforcement of the two budgets adopted and for which the referendum is not allowed. They considered that the level of the average is always a matter of agreement, which must also be balanced with the remaining categories in the budget. It is clear that Slovenia follows the public financial objectives in the spirit of the fiscal rule adopted. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, by a majority of all members, 12 votes in favour and 2 against, that the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u5	In order to explain my opinion, I give the Government's representative as the bill's proponent, Dr Dusan Maramor, to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u6	Your Honor! Before you is the re-decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017, to which the State Council voted veto on 25 November. The reasons for the veto are the provisions of the Law on the amount of the average, the financing of all municipalities only up to the extent of the appropriate spending and the means to co-finance municipal investments from the State budget. The government disagrees with the opinion with which the State Council based the veto. This year, the government, in cooperation with the municipalities, made exceptional efforts to reduce the expenditure of municipal budgets. In doing so, it followed the proposals of the municipalities as far as possible, but could not accept the requirements to increase the expenditure of the state budget. This would violate the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act, which limits the expenditure of all institutional units of the state sector, not just the State budget. The average of €536 per capita, as requested by the municipalities, would also mean denying the efforts made and the results of the measures implemented, as well as the agreement reached on this year's average. Taking into account the requirements of municipalities would require EUR 37 million of additional financial compensation and EUR 22 million of additional investment transfer from the A balance sheet, together with EUR 59 million of additional funding. These funds could only ensure that the rights of consumption of other budgetary users are violated and that they are infringed by other constitutionally protected rights guaranteed by the State or by violation of Article 148 of the Constitution, the law governing fiscal rules and internationally accepted obligations. Although municipal associations have refused to sign the agreement, the ZIPRS attack retains all agreed specific solutions with municipalities in the form of legal bases for: the issuance of new decisions on the assessment of the NUSZ, the acquisition of returnable investment assets on favourable terms and outside the eligible debt quota, the wider use of investment assets and an increased quota of eligible debt for European co-financed investments, as set out for 2015. ZIPRS1617 with an average of EUR 522, the average average this year, according to the Government of the municipalities in 2016 provides at least the same level of appropriate consumption as they have this year. The proposal is justified by the calculated impact on the expenditure of municipalities by increasing and reducing commitments in 2016. In particular, it is taken into account with the municipalities in the majority of the coordinated impact assessment by the end of 2015 of the existing regulatory changes, which will be around €2.3 million in 2016. On the other hand, the increased obligations of municipalities to increase salaries in public institutions and municipal administrations under the trade union agreement by EUR 13.5 million are taken into account. With regard to Article 55 of the Law, under which the highest-income municipalities are only entitled to appropriate spending, I would like to point out that the recognition of surpluses over the appropriate consumption of this municipality, compared to others financed only up to the appropriate consumption, puts them in a better position. In 2016, surplus income, recognised to the economically most powerful municipalities, would require an additional EUR 11 million from the state budget. As regards the investment transfer after 21. the Article of the Law on the Financing of the Communities should be taken into account that this is only part of the funds that go to the municipalities for investments from the State budget. The state budget will cover €150 million in investments to municipalities in 2016. The government considers that ZIPRS 2016-2017 in the public financial framework, without jeopardising the public financial system in the country, provides municipalities with sustainable funding for all their legal or compulsory tasks within the prescribed framework and in the event of economic implementation. Since there can be no doubt that, in the use of the measures taken and the necessary rationalisation of the operations of the municipalities, funds are provided to carry out the tasks to the extent necessary, and since it is not possible to provide additional resources in the State budget without significantly prejudice to the rights of use of other budgetary users, I propose to the National Assembly that the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 be reaffirmed in the re-election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! For the second time in less than half a year, the National Council shall decide on the averages. Whether 522 euros is sufficient for the implementation of the legal obligation of the municipalities, as proposed by the Government, or 536 euros, as requested by the associations of the municipalities. The government argues that EUR 522 is sufficient for the implementation of commitments at the same level as this year. The National Council notes, however, that only 7 and 20 million were saved by government measures. In the next two years, municipalities will have fewer funds for kindergartens, social transfers, societies, etc. That the reform of local self-government has failed, we warn everyone who has been engaged in local and regional development for 15 years, but obviously the current situation is in line with many, but not with citizens and citizens. The government, however, does not want to address this development challenge. In the National Assembly we adopt laws that are implemented at local, municipal level in more than two thirds of cases. The municipalities are expected to provide all of us with essential social rights and part of administrative functions. Poorly functioning local self-government is hurting all of us. A large part of municipalities do not meet the legal criteria for establishment, although many of the initial functional and infrastructure criteria have been eliminated. The National Assembly should discuss what functions it is appropriate to carry out at municipal level and which should be carried out at regional or national level. It is also necessary to open a debate on the purpose or incomprehensibility of the two-track system of municipalities and administrative units. Instead of an urgent debate today, the coalition majority will adopt a law that will maintain the current situation for the next two years, as the government writes in its response to the veto, and I quote: "The government believes that the average provides municipalities at least the same position as they have this year." Let us ask ourselves, What position do the congregations have today? How do citizens and citizens feel about this situation? Answer: There are several categories of citizens and citizens in Slovenia. We all know too many differences between municipalities at the prices of kindergartens and utilities. Budget poorer municipalities are unable to invest in health care, we have areas, for example, in the Poljanska Valley, without a pediatric service. You could, of course, list ahead, but the point is clear; the situation is bad. There is a need for reflection and improvement, and instead, the Government is fixing increasing differences for the next two years. The government suggests that municipalities limit employment and lay off employees. This is not a response to the crisis of local self-government, as many, in particular small municipalities are staff-supported and consequently unable to run successfully for development projects. The solution is an in-depth discussion on the set of mandatory tasks of municipalities and on the reform of local self-government, which has been successfully carried out in Denmark for example, and is now being carried out in the Austrian country of Styria. It is time to think about different high averages in relation to the future different levels of mandatory tasks, the time for the introduction of participatory budgets and the re-empowerment of urban districts and local communities. Instead, with the proposed average, the Government does not guarantee the same position of municipalities as we now have. We are convinced that the present situation in many congregations is already unacceptable. The problem cannot be solved only through financial measures, and the fact is that this law only exacerbates the problems. Therefore, in the United Left we expect an in-depth debate on the reform of local self-government and the reform of local self-government. Finally, I can also say that in this composition of the National Assembly we make up the majority of the parliamentary group, which is not in the vicinity of the mayoral elites, and if ever it is time, now is the time to undertake serious reforms of local self-government after 20 years. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u9	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u10	Dear Members and Members! What has failed Minister Virant with a formal procedure will obviously succeed this government with financial resources, this is the abolition of small municipalities. Local self-government is a constitutional category in our legal system, as it is explicitly provided by the Constitution in Article 9. On the basis of constitutional provisions, the primary purpose of local self-government is to regulate local matters governed by the municipalities independently and mainly by the population. As a second working area of the municipalities, the Constitution also provides for the performance of the tasks delegated by the State to the local community by law, but provided that the State also provides the necessary resources for these purposes. For the purpose of carrying out the tasks transferred, the State must therefore provide resources, in proportion to the type and extent of the tasks transferred. This is also the case with the Law on the Financing of the Congregations. However, this is only a dead letter on paper, since practice shows everything else, it is that the state does not provide the necessary resources for the operation of municipalities. At the same time, the municipalities impose more and more tasks each year, while the funds for carrying out these tasks, which are provided from averages, are reduced from year to year. And what are the consequences? Too low average forces a number of municipalities into a difficult financial situation. The municipalities shall use their own resources to carry out the tasks they perform for the country. They also face liquidity problems and the extension of payment deadlines, especially the reduction of infrastructure investments, which significantly reduce regional differences across Slovenia. We must not forget that in 2016 the municipalities will face additional expenditure related to the release of the promotions of public servants and other increases in labour costs. As early as 2015, the municipalities had received less than €120 million to carry out their statutory tasks. Given the average as set out in ZIPRS1617 and the additional increase in financial liabilities, the deficits and problems of municipalities will be so high over the next two years. However, if we consider all of this to be a reduction in funding for the financial settlement in 2016, or the abolition of this transfer in 2017, we can conclude that we are actually abolishing local self-government and small municipalities; what was my or our claim at the very beginning of this position. In such a situation, then, we ask the Government how it will evenly ensure regional development. Years ago, this was one of the important substantive, political starting points for every government to strive to ensure equitable regional development. There's no sense of this policy in this government. We also ask whether the Government and individual ministries will do their homework and, however, review the tasks of individual departments, which needlessly bureaucraticly burden the municipalities and thus give them additional costs. Over an administratively defined average, the Government made an account for the unscheduled domestic task primarily to the municipalities. The procrastination veto of the Council of State at the adoption of the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2016 and 2017 is thus well founded. And an opportunity for a new reflection of the coalition on whether local self-government in the constitutionally provided framework will still be in place. In particular, consider whether we will respect the legislation adopted in this house. According to calculations made by various associations of congregations, the municipalities would need €671. But we're strong below that limit. Due to the public financial situation and to the views expressed by the representative associations of the municipalities, it is the opinion of Nova Slovenije that the average level should be maintained at least at the level of the previous years. As this will not happen, Members and Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats are so announced that in a new vote on the Law on the Implementation of Budgets 2016 and 2017, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u11	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today, it is reaffirmed that the reform of the financing of local self-government is necessary. On the one hand, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the autonomy of local self-government and, on the other hand, the will of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to financing. In addition, we have on the one hand a formula that divides the revenue collected from income, and on the other hand few or almost no one who understands this formula and knows how to use it. Above all, we also have the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017, where we regulate the financing of municipalities beyond the system law. Of course, it is disputed that the financing of municipalities is governed by a law which is intended to be purely of a technical nature and which is intended to enable the implementation of the budget. And, of course, it is disputed that the content which interferes with the financing of the municipalities is agreed only on the Government and within its coalition parties. Can anyone imagine exactly what it would mean if the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 did not receive sufficient support? We have already tabled amendments to Articles 53 and 54 of the bill or to Articles 54 and 55 of the Act in the Group of Non-Aligned Members before the consideration on the home working body. As regards the average level, we also proposed that this should remain at the level of the first half of 2015 for 2016 and 2017. We came from an agreement reached at the time by the Government and representative associations of the congregations. We anticipated that the amount of €525 would still be sufficient to prevent municipalities from becoming in liquidity problems when carrying out their legal duties. The proposal was not adopted, not at the home labour body, not at the assembly itself, but even though this was the last government proposal after the media's report. For us, however, it was also a problem under Article 55 of the Law, which, contrary to the provisions of the Law on the Financing of Communities, takes the funds of the corresponding income. In this way, the Member shall take away the difference between municipalities where the appropriate amount of funds exceeds the appropriate amount of expenditure. We proposed deleting an article that would primarily affect the city’s congregations. Of course, this amendment was not adopted either. Moreover, at the meeting of the assembly, we were able to hear a coalition member expressing his disagreement that larger congregations are being punished and deprived of these funds, which, as has already been said, belong to them under the Law on the Financing of the Communities. We will not support this time in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Law. We ourselves agree with the reasons set out by the Council of State when requesting a reinstatement. We are convinced that unilateral intervention in the financing of constitutionally defined local self-government is not appropriate, but is also likely to be constitutionally controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, representative of the Council of State! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, as the leading government coalition party, we bear full responsibility to provide, under the circumstances, still vulnerable public financial conditions in the country, such a budgetary basis that will provide 2 000 806 direct and indirect budgetary users with financial support for their operation for and on behalf of the State. In doing so, we are also aware of our fundamental pre-election commitment that we must deal with the country's finances in an extremely cost-effective, sustainable and within the limits of the fiscal rules and commitments of the Stability and Growth Pact. On such grounds, which have been modified almost at weekly level in the last half of the year by unforeseen external circumstances related to the encounter with refugee or migrant flows, a draft Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 has been prepared. Proposal at the meeting of the National Assembly on 18. 11. The coalition, together with members of the national minorities and Janie Möderndorfer, was confirmed by 55 votes, in this situation the result not only of constructive consensus within the government but also of the parliamentary majority and the social partners of the public sector. It was also, and above all, a national understanding of circumstances, limitations and finally denials of ideal desires. Unfortunately, this understanding and effort in the process could not be achieved with representative representatives of local communities and, therefore, is not expected in some way with the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, in which 55% of all the votes of saints belong to representatives of local interests. Today, we can only regret that these same representatives of local communities, after months of negotiations with the Government, have rejected the last proposal of the average with arguments that it does not cover the average costs of financing the legal tasks imposed by the State on the municipalities. Government calculations and insights into the financial accounts of municipalities do not confirm this, as the Minister for Finance has just said by citing professional arguments and calculations, so we will not repeat them here. Allow me, however, to present some other facts and figures on this occasion on behalf of the SMC Group. The Law on Local Self-Government provides that each municipality, in addition to other legal conditions, must also meet the criterion that at least 5,000 people live in it, and in no case, even if special reasons are taken into account, not less than 2,000 inhabitants. Today there are 192 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. In 110 municipalities, this is less than 5,000 people living in 52% of the total. In 26 municipalities and 13% of municipalities, there are fewer than 2 000 people. In the 110 municipalities mentioned above, only 15% of the Slovenian population live together; in the smallest two municipalities, less than 400 people live. Calculations of the appropriate spending on the performance of the duties of the State per capita by municipality from 2013 to today show that it is significantly higher than or significantly higher in those municipalities where fewer people live than those prescribed by law. And that's where the series of financial facts begin to open up. How is it possible for a municipality to spend thousands of EUR 276 for its operations per capita, while for the other — the largest two — for the same functioning of EUR 441? How is it possible that the price of institutional protection for adults in one municipality is €6 per capita; in the other one is the same service €55? That one municipality costs 12 euros per capita and the other the same service 82 euros? Today is not a suitable time or space to find answers for such a situation that has arisen for decades, but we believe that they must be addressed immediately in an appropriate forum. To start with a government strategy for the development of local self-government, which is since 27. 11. Further in public debate. All of these are not about changes in several euro, more or less the average, but rather about the fact that the practice of such unequal and difficult-to-transparent financial usages between municipalities calls for a return first to respect the legal criteria for the establishment of municipalities. These criteria were not set out arbitrarily but followed, inter alia, the principle of optimising the functioning of the State's tasks at local level. Since I am running out of time, I will only conclude by re-declaring the Implementation Act of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017, of course, once again a single vote for the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u15	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u16	Unfortunately, I will misuse procedurally, there are 20 more congregations than my colleague mentioned, and I hope that you did not terminate them in the middle of the 20 that no one will say anything wrong. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u17	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The budget for 2016 and 2017 is not harmonised. It is not coordinated because the law on the implementation of the budget is not in line with one of the most important factors in this country, this is local self-government, these are municipalities. It's a constitutional category. And in these municipalities, in fact, people, citizens and citizens are directly pursuing their interests and, of course, they are also benefiting from services. The municipalities are real today, and they're here as they are. And if anyone does not like it, then he must change either the constitution or change the legislation under which we now have congregations. And as the position of the largest coalition party shows, the fundamental purpose is not to give municipalities enough money to cover basic needs, to abolish congregations in this country, to abolish local self-government, and finally to have only one, two, three or four congregations in this country. We strongly oppose this position in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are also strongly opposed to the issue of the number of municipalities, as well as the question of the price in individual municipalities, starting to be addressed through the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets. These are different because we also have different conditions, different prosperity in different congregations. It's our reality. And the well-respected Party of the Modern Center, if you want to abolish the congregations in the country, say it directly. You don't have to do this in a way that makes it easy for you to cut money for citizens and citizens, so that all the calculations you're talking about and talking about by the Minister of Finance are actually unsustainable. Take a look at the Court of Auditors' latest calculation, which says that expenditure as a whole increased by around 32%, while the average increased by 11% from 2007 to 2014. At the time it was €469, then it rose to about 550 and is now falling to €522. Which in other words means that your calculations simply don't hold. And second thing, let's leave 522 euros now. In any event, it is a number that does not comply with the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Under the Law on Community Financing, municipalities should receive EUR 652 and 60 cents. And here you who swear to the legality that you swear to be legitimate simply violate the substantive law. And for that reason, I think there is another question here that, through the funding of the municipalities, there is a desire to regulate completely different things. Above all, it is the desire to abolish the congregation without any discussion, since such congregations themselves will actually have to be abolished. We therefore strongly oppose such a way in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We also strongly oppose the fact that you do not provide the municipalities with enough money, which the Court of Auditors already says should be given. And one more thing, we strongly oppose the way in which you accept the budget for 2016 and 2017. It's no deal. No deal. It's, if you want, all those who know much more about political science than I do, it's torn by democracy. Democracy today means that an agreement is needed and that an agreement is in place. Every day you prove that you can't do it. And for that reason, I think that in both the congregations and, of course, the whole public should have a way of thinking about it. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the Minister with a co-worker as well as you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My position will not be a controversial debate with the position of another parliamentary group, but I would like to remind you of one point that in the short term there will be a public presentation of opinions, opinions, a debate at the Ministry of Public Administration on the strategy for the development of local self-government in the Slovenian space, and I hope that we will be included in this debate as many as possible. After a veto by the Council of State, we are once again faced with a bill aimed at legalising the solutions that will enable the implementation of budgets for 2016 and 2017. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will also unanimously support the draft law once again. This position, which I am reading now, could be the attitude that we have recently expressed, and we are not changing it. Let me remind you that this year, too, we have committed ourselves to limiting public spending by adopting a fiscal rule. It appears that this move has the expected positive effects on the credit rating country and on the interest rate at which the country is indebted. I know that public finances are still needed for further consolidation and stabilisation, and this has a strong impact on the funds to be allocated to the municipalities. In the DeSUS Group, we regret, of course, that the representatives of the Government and the municipalities have not arrived together after several discussions and multiple races around the stadium. We sincerely wanted negotiations on the average to please both the congregations and the government. In Desus, we are still aware of the important role of local self-government, but it must be understood that public funding is still very limited. Although the government side tried to approach the municipalities with its proposals, the final proposal of the average was higher than the original one, but at the end the municipality was not satisfied with the proposal. They wanted more than the government's ability. We will support the bill for several reasons. We have recently faced, among other things, a solution to the refugee problem, which requires a lot of resources, so we support solutions to enable the Government to carry out new items during the year, if this is absolutely necessary. Resources for this purpose will be provided by redistributing spending rights. Since the scope of these funds cannot be planned, we have also allowed the possibility of the State being in additional debt for this purpose. In the DeSUS Group, we are also pleased that extraordinary reconciliation of pensions will finally take place in the coming January; despite the entry in the coalition contract, solid coordination negotiations have been held for quite a good part of the year. The adoption of the law will also allow the annual pension allowance to be maintained for the next two years. At the same time, I would like to point out once again that the deadline for the establishment of the demographic fund is a backup, as the demographic picture projection in the coming period shows an alarming picture. Its establishment will relieve the budget and provide funds for the pension fund in the long term. We therefore expect such an independent demographic fund to form, which will justify its mission, but not just that it will depend on the TOZD within SDH. In addition, by adopting the law of review, a sub-account will be established for part of the purchase from the sale of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia. This purchase will go to the reserve demographic fund at the time of its establishment, which must be as soon as possible, as the water is already flowing into our throats. The deadline under the SDH Act expires by the end of the year, and the coalition contract stated that we must do so before. Let me conclude with the idea that, while coordinating pensions and paying the annual allowance, it is not about any more resources, but will in any way help those on the social side. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will once again support the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u21	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In re-decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017, we will vote in favour of the law, as it is the implementation of the budget and, in fact, this law is kind of a technical law, which is also a direct condition for the implementation of the budget and also constitutes a legal basis for its implementation. Without the adoption of the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, the budget we have already adopted in the National Assembly is not actually in force. Of course, we must also point out that the requirement of the Council of State for the readjustment of the Law on the implementation of the budget for the next two years is justified, as it in fact departs from the Law on the financing of municipalities in 2016 and 2017, and also from the methodology that provides for the calculation of the average of EUR 652 per capita according to this methodology. Of course, we must point out here that there was obviously an interest on the part of the municipalities in trying to harmonise themselves, as they were ready, if I may say so, to give up from €652 per capita to €536. In fact, this law has been adopted at a rate of EUR 522 per capita, which means that probably not all the options that could actually lead to synergies have been exhausted and in fact listens to the reasons why such derogations have been made. On the one hand, it is noted that there has been an increase in the cost of employment in this period of the economic and financial crisis, as well as an increase in material costs, in the municipalities. On the other hand, it must also be said that the Fiscal Rule Act has been adopted in the National Assembly, but it certainly brings very important restrictions on public consumption. And when we talk about public spending, it will obviously be necessary to adapt to these facts certain systemic laws – not only the Law on the Financing of Communities, including the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, the Law on War veterans, the Law on Slovenian State Holding – in all these laws, in fact, the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets in a way that should not be affected. And this is an additional reason that, however, approaches are very much in depth to harmonising public spending and that we do not go into a simplified approach to reducing public spending only by compressing people and reducing public spending, but we must also go towards seeking economic growth, we must go towards more employment, more added value. All of this in Slovenia can in fact be achieved if they are more involved in the development of the bank, which have been pre-capitalised, but are not included sufficiently in the lending of the economy and thus in the financing of development. In addition, we are extremely lagging behind in very important investments, which are important for achieving economic growth and promoting economic development. Of course, it is infrastructure; the second track and railway infrastructure are certainly part of the infrastructure which, after the construction of the highway, is crucial for the further successful economic development of Slovenia, and since Luka Koper is the most important entry point for the delivery of cargo on this infrastructure, it is also one of the opportunities that has not yet been used in Slovenia. Therefore, only with a common approach and a comprehensive view of what needs to be done in Slovenia will the needs of municipalities as well as, of course, pension bills, as well as of war veterans and others who have actually been affected during this period of public spending cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a re-decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Ambassadors, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. In our parliamentary group, we will support or re-vote unitedly in favour of this law. But let me tell you something else that I didn't do before. Our country is alone. It consists of a number of apparatus at national and local levels. However, the content of the State Council's re-decision requirement on the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2016 and 2017 informs our country that it has reached the time for the need for comprehensive reflection, not the level of averages, but a further strategy for the development of local self-government and in this connection the legitimate, transparent and responsible follow-up to the fundamental criteria, principles and tasks of establishing, operating and thus financing municipalities as central authorities of local self-government in the country. We believe that by such an approach to mutual law enforcement, it will be possible to use a formula to calculate averages rather than to avoid the need for each other to negotiate and apply more or less legally and politically acceptable means of communication between the various representatives of the same common family, the State of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that, under such conditions, there will be no need to submit requirements to assess the constitutionality of the basic legislation on the financing of local self-government, as the agreed legal commitments will again be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-01-SDZ7-Izredna-25.ana.u25	So we vote, we re-vote on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. We're voting. Peace in the hall, please. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 for them and 23 for them. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
