ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Ludmila Novak, mag. Alenka Bratusek, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Andrej Cuz, Dr Laszlo Göncz, Mr Jan Škoberne, Dr Bojan Dobovšek from 17:00 on, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Ivan Prelog and Mr Marijan Pojbič. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 9 November 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 56 Members and Members were present, 56 of whom were voted against, and no one opposed them. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the eve of the day, the proposal recommended to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with cabling in state companies – Slovenian State Holding, D.D. AND BANK MANAGEMENT COMPANIES, D.D. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 27 Members and Members of Parliament recommended a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the proposal, I first give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Jerne Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished President of the National Assembly, Mr Secretary of State! We are witnessing political recruitment, which we have not yet had in the Republic of Slovenia. It is right that the Government should be in charge, but the key question is, who is in charge and how is in charge, that is, the very mode of recruitment. And these two, so the people the government calls, and the way they do it, that's the problem. In Novi Slovenije, we decided to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly because, in the course of the exchanges in DUTB and Slovenian State Holding, the Government of Mira Cerar was literally abducted by lobbyists and networks or their hostage. Individuals have such an existing government literally only as a means of achieving their objectives, and the primary objective is certainly to influence the economy and cash flows. In fact, the Government of Mira Cerar was allegedly responsible for the bank hole that had been saved by taxpayers, and was rewarded by the Government of Mir Cerar for managing 14 billion euros of state property; instead of responding, they were therefore rewarded and today appointed to leading positions in the DUTB and SDH. Well, let's be more specific. The former leaders of the New Ljubljana Bank, i.e. those who are supposed to be responsible for unsecured loans, are returning through a large door to watch over state assets. So one on SDH, the other on DUTB. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we trust these people who have created a multibillion-dollar bank hole? It is justified to fear that the final epilogue of this type of staffing will be a new bank hole, the privatisation process will be further hampered, less investment, less foreign investors, in short, in the Republic of Slovenia, this will lead to worse lives. The amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act were made in cooperation with the Anti-Corruption Commission, led by your Justice Minister, Mr Klemenčič. He has therefore drafted legislation that has apparently been breached by recent human resources exchanges. Let's take a closer look. Let me mention the second paragraph of Article 46 of the SDH Act, which states that in the appointment of the SDH administration, a person may be appointed as a member of the administration who, in addition to the conditions laid down in the law governing the company, fulfils the condition that he is distinguished by his personal integrity and professional excellence. Ladies and gentlemen, business excellence. We are talking about business excellence and let us look at the facts if gentlemen meet this condition, namely business excellence and integrity. At the time when the new SDH CEO, Mr Jazbec, was also a member of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka administration and a member of the credit committee, unsecured loans were systematically granted and the bank hole increased. Between 2011 and 2012, Marko Jazbec was president of the New Ljubljana Bank Credit Committee, and 40 million Euros were granted to Savi, Mercury 31 million Euros of credit, Vegrad 16 million, Rigelnikov's ACH 40 million Euros, and so on. These are companies that have either failed or ended up in a bad bank because of non-economic governance. I ask what kind of business ethics this is, business excellence if you want the President, a member of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, to grant such high credits to companies that were just before the collapse. Let's move on. The Slovenian State Holding Act states that the President of the SDH administration must have 10 years of working experience in management positions, of which at least 3 years in comparable activities, and achieves good comparable results in his work. Let's take a look. Mr Marko Jazbec was a member of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank in 2009-2012. At that time, Nova Ljubljanska Banka recorded the following results: in 2009 – 87 million Euros of loss, in 2010 – 202 million Euros of loss, in 2011 – 239 million Euros of loss, in 2012 – 274 million Euros of loss. Respected coalition, are these good comparable results, as defined in Article 46 of the Slovenian State Holding Act in the case of the appointment of SDH? This is a pure loss, ladies and gentlemen, not a business excellence, nor a comparable result. So much for Slovenian State Holding. And briefly on the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, and of course we continue with this octopus about the New Ljubljana Bank and the appointment of Dr Simoneti as the non-executive director of DUB. On 5 March, the Government of Mir Cerar appointed the new non-executive directors of the DUTB, including Mr Marko Simoneti. Marko Simoneti led the Ljubljana Stock Exchange until 2009 until he became Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. Attention, and under the leadership of Mark Simonetti, the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank appointed Mark Jazbec in 2009 as chairman of the SDH administration. Ladies and gentlemen, we follow. Marko Simoneti was therefore the Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board until the end of 2012 and according to publicly available data, Nova Ljubljanska Banka has not filed any complaints against the former head of the New Ljubljana Bank during this period, although the media had already published formations on serious corporate governance violations in the former leaders of the New Ljubljana Bank. Therefore, the question follows is how can such a responsible place be allowed to be visited by a person who also supervised the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank at a time when such high unsecured loans were granted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the pre-election promises made by the President of the Government on ethics and standards are today, even at the expense of the recruitment of only empty words, and the main point of this government, namely ethics and standards, has completely collapsed by appointing the new administrations of the Slovenian State Holding and DUTB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u3	In order to further explain the proposal, I would also like to give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Anzeta Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u4	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Honourable Minister of Finance, who probably monitors us through camera, and honourable Members! This is my copy of the 2014-2018 coalition agreement. I would hope to say that he is substantially more disfigured than a coalition copy of a number of members of the coalition. Clearly, however, it is more substantial than a copy of the coalition agreement of the President of the Government. This coalition agreement on page 9 states: "The coalition partners will restore confidence in the institutions of the supervisory functions and public authorities in the financial system." Today we are in an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, which should not be. It should not be if this coalition clause were to apply. Unfortunately, however, we find that everything applies before that. For a long time, we have discussed who is responsible for the bank hole, and even in the coalition contract, you have stated that members of the credit committees and supervisory boards of banks that have caused the bank's hole should be assessed and their responsibility determined. At least two members of the largest bank in the country, who are responsible for having been in the most important positions, are now holding even more responsible functions in the country under the government of Miro Cerar. At the time of the 2 billion euro weakening in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, Marko Jazbec was Chairman of the credit committee. And his supervisor was Marko Simonetti. Two people who are today the most powerful in this country. So while they were responsible for the creation of the bank hole, today they are the most responsible and most important financier in the country, significantly more important than the finance minister and also significantly more important than the President of the Government. See what Miro Cerar said in 2011: "As a citizen, I am most concerned and pained to see politicians and capitalists and other members of the elite act as if it were all a drama game from which they can come out at any time. They're playing who's gonna be who, almost without any real contact with what's happening in the country. This leads to disaster. It is also tragic that we are simply observing and not responding to it." Your Honor! I myself have not heard the proper response of the President of the Government to the incestful staffing allowed by the SDH Supervisory Board. The fact that he appointed a 13 billion-dollar state-owned company with the bank hole of a compromised person. Slovenia has 70% of the state-owned banking system. You know why? Because the bankers were playing with money that wasn't theirs. And because of this game, the taxpayers for the bank hole had to cut deep into the pocket, up to EUR 5 billion. And at a time when, as the coalition agreement says, "the government restores confidence in supervisory function holders and holders of public authority in the banking system", such recruitment is unacceptable. It is unacceptable in terms of pre-election promises, but it is also unacceptable in terms of the facts that will be further highlighted in today's debate. And to finish with the words of the Prime Minister when he hasn't been. In fact, in 2012, he said, quote, "Well, last time someone told me very nicely that our society doesn't know shame anymore. Of course, this is generally not true, but this mentality is actually coming to the fore. There's nothing to be ashamed of." Don't you think there's nothing more embarrassing about this appointment of the first man SDH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u5	The proposal for a recommendation is 12. 11. 2015 discussed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Representative of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues, colleagues and others! We are at the 38th urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. 11. 2015, as already mentioned by the President, as a parent working body, they addressed the proposal for a recommendation to the Government regarding staffing in state companies – the Slovenian State Holding and Bank Claims Management Company. It was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. We have received opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government and the Slovenian State Holding Committee at this meeting. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposers also tabled amendments to the three points of the proposal for a recommendation. In addition to the members of the Committee, meetings were attended: representative of the proposer, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. In the supplementary explanation, the representative of the applicant presented the reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting. In doing so, he highlighted the mode of recruitment in SDH and DUTB cases, which he referred to as extremely problematic; the persons employed by the Government, in his view, do not meet ethical standards and are supposed to be named in contravention of legislation. Allegedly responsible for the resulting bank hole should be rewarded by the Government with the resources of SDH and DUTB’s leadership with the management of 16 billion state assets. He also wondered why these people enjoyed the trust of the government. He further highlighted the alleged nonconsistency of the Government, which was supposed to show that the former leaders in the DUDB and SDH did not report that they were doing their job badly. The representative concluded with the view that it was not a problem for the Government to intervene in the recruitment process, because it was its duty, and as a key point in this question, he highlighted, who and in what way, it was responsible to recruit capable and credible individuals who were aware of their responsibilities. In its opinion on the recommendation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that there is no basis for the recommendations in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the Law on Slovenian State Holding and the Law on Measures of the Republic of Slovenia to Strengthen Bank Stability. In assessing the recommendations proposed, it is necessary to draw on the constitutional principles of the division of power and the rule of law and to take into account, in this context, that the National Assembly may propose to other authorities only those measures which fall within their competence, while respecting their constitutional or legal autonomy and independence in the exercise of their powers. The opinion of the Government was presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and the SDH opinion was presented by the SDH Chairman of the Supervisory Board. In the discussion, some Members then recalled their view that the appointment of supervisors and the new SDH administration were controversial and that the members of the DUTB Management Board were replaced. Following the discussion, the coalition representative considered that the DUTB and SDH supervisors were responsible for the replacement of the causes and arguments for the amendment, and therefore the proposed recommendations were not necessary in his opinion. We then voted in the committee on the amendment of the NSI Group, which was not adopted, followed by a vote on all the points of the proposal for a recommendation which were also not adopted. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, it was then found that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation to the Government on the home working body had been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u7	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has carefully reviewed the proposals of the proposers concerning the assessment of the recruitment processes in the Slovenian State Holding and Bank Claims Management Company and has given its written opinion on this. They were also identified by the Service of the National Legislative Assembly. On the basis of these opinions, you have come to understand the lack of knowledge of the corporate governance system in the Slovenian State Holding and State-owned companies, as you wanted to make recommendations to the Government, for which the Government does not even have a legal basis, and you have therefore withdrawn or recast your proposals at a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy or in accordance with existing legislation. The concept of corporate governance of state-owned companies, as prescribed by the Slovenian State Holding Act, provides for the separation of the function of the State as owner of capital investments from other functions of the State or the prevention of political influence and interference with the management of state-owned companies. Accordingly, the Government or policy must not interfere with the day-to-day management of state-owned companies and must allow management authorities to carry out their tasks, while respecting their independence. And that is exactly what the essence of the law is, since it was the first time that it established the principle of independence and established a transparent way of appointing the Supervisory Board after professional qualifications. The principle of independence thus provides that SDH and its authorities are not bound by the instructions of national authorities or third parties and must act independently and independently when fulfilling their tasks in accordance with this law. The Government respects this principle consistently and, in accordance with the SDH law, it can only propose candidates for the SDH Supervisory Board to be appointed to the National Assembly. Only the National Assembly can also recall the members of the SDH Supervisory Board. As far as the DUTB is concerned, the Government may appoint and resolve members of the Management Board, which it has also done in terms of remedying the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors. The government does not have the authority to appoint and resolve the SDH administration, as it is the sole responsibility of the SDH supervisory council, which also bears all responsibility. Accordingly, the Chairman of the SDH Supervisory Board gave the Members and Members of the home working body full justification for the appointment of the new SDH administration. The Supervisory Board led the procedure for the selection, selection and appointment of SDH members on its own and on its own responsibility. The criteria of expertise, the work experience achieved, integrity and the assessment of personality characteristics, and in particular the ability to manage such a demanding institution as SDH, prevailed. With regard to the verification of appointments to the SDH Supervisory Board and the Administration in respect of respect for the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, the applicants themselves have found that this is not within the power of the Government, but rather the Commission to prevent corruption. Nevertheless, it should be pointed out that KPK can act independently, on the basis of the provisions of the law governing its jurisdiction, but explicitly also on the basis of the additional provisions of the SDH Act. The only obvious and consequential recommendation of the applicants under the authority of the Government is the alleged failure to comply with Barbara Smolnikar's terms and conditions as a member of the SDH Supervisory Board. It is pointed out by the proposers that the President of the administration is associated with the company and that he has a possible conflict of interest. This was also highlighted in the debate in the home work body. The Government rejects and emphasises that, in terms of recruitment, all relevant legal provisions and all best practices for the recruitment of state-owned economic companies have been respected in accordance with its powers and in this context also in the Slovenian State Holding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Matjaž German for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today's point – happening in the appointment and resolution of those responsible in the Slovenian State Holding and Bank Claims Management Society – is not the first time on the agenda, and I believe it is not the last time. The singing policy withdrawal from the economy has been carried out for years. He's always been accompanied by violent controversy, affairs, attempts to launch them. We face two diametrically opposite views all the time – those who in the state always see a bad owner and manager and those who believe that the country can and must be a good owner. It appears that neither one nor the other fail to adapt to the logic of the distinction between the ownership's responsibilities and the responsibility of the controller. Above all, some still do not understand who is calling whom, who is responsible, and who is releasing whom. We also believe that the Social Democrats have repeatedly said that the state as owner cannot give up its responsibility for our common property. In real, good corporate governance, the owner may make few decisions, but those he makes are decisive and final. They should be discussed in this place. The owner sets up a supervisory board or some administration, decides to share profits, gives consent to larger sales and purchases. In particular, it requires supervisors appointed to be responsible for their decisions, to appoint an administration and to operate legally in accordance with the direction of the owner. In the case of the management of the Slovenian State Holding, the assets shall have the task of executing the majority, not all ownership responsibilities of the SDH Supervisory Board. This has been repeatedly confirmed by the will of policy and the public to prevent the political impact on specific business decisions, including the selection of management staff by corporate administrations. The government has therefore appointed the SDH Supervisory Board, and its task is to select the management of the holding company, which manages about 13 billion of our common assets. It is their duty and their right to choose the administration. They are also responsible for the decisions they make, and it is right that if their decisions turn out to be bad, and this is important, they are responsible for their actions. Both the Government and the Slovenian State Holding, both DUTB and all state-owned companies are obliged to work legally. This also means that they respect basic legal principles. One of the most important things is that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. We have been able to read a lot, hear and see in the past about certain candidates, and there is actually a bitter taste that the Supervisory Council might choose candidates whose past would not have been so connected with the time when the bank hole began to care for the domestic and international public. But that is the way it is in life; if you give someone a great responsibility, which is certainly the last thing that Slovenian State Holding is, you have to trust him that he will be able to bear his responsibility. [[…]] Candidates without a past have no experience, and candidates without experience do not have competence for successful work. Therefore, we expect the members of the Governing Council to be able to resist the pressures that will, of course, continue to rise and appear, as always, when decisions are in play that can affect a large number of people. We believe that it is particularly important for social Democrats to withdraw their policies from their daily business decisions, not by selling out everything we have, but by demanding that our assets be well managed for the benefit of all. The people we have entrusted with this responsibility, however, must justify their trust with concrete actions and results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the United Left, we deal with and take seriously the problems of SDH and DUTB. We first called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Commission on Public Finances due to salary and human resources policy in a bad bank. We have also tabled a proposal for a new Law on Slovenian State Holding in February, which would change the recruitment policy and allow the Slovenian State Holding to conduct significantly different personnel than they do today. And we voted against the current composition of the SDH Supervisory Board because it was not clear about the suspicions of conflict of interest. In short, we are dealing with the problems with all seriousness, and in the light of this meeting we stress that problems need to be addressed through systemic measures, not by an affair. In view of the constant reference to meetings in which we have become involved in the National Assembly, where there is no voting at all at all, as it will not be today, there is no way to replace serious measures to prevent such excesses in advance. Certainly not enough if we protest against individual faces, but if the system remains the same. A new Jazbec will come after Jazbec, new bad bankers will come to Sweden in a bad bank and therefore we need to change the way in which they are employed; in these institutions we need thorough reforms of these institutions and there is no way that we are simply protesting against individuals. At the same time, it is important to draw attention to the real problems facing the institutions in any such debate and to try to convince at least the government representatives to take them seriously. In fact, what we are facing today are symptoms of systemic problems. Systemic problems in SDH are: SDH is a privatisation facility, not a management facility. The law of 2012 even provided that ownership of state-owned enterprises would be transferred to SDH. Privatisation is the main objective of the management strategy, which contains the longest list of enterprises for privatisation in history. There are 46 companies to be sold in full. It also contains scenarios on how to privatise Slovenian Railways, Luka Koper, i.e. companies that are defined as strategic in the strategy itself. One year from now, the revision of this list is due to follow, and certainly this revision will not serve to shorten this privatisation list. In the United Left, we have never advocated state managers and their political sponsors. That's what the 20-year-olds did. Now, of course, we have a problem with those who are responsible for this crisis in the Slovenian state holding company. There are people like Marko Jazbec sitting there, but we have completely forgotten the major problem. The fact that SDH, through the new administration, will quietly continue all the practices of the old administration, in order to continue peacefully with the privatisation of enterprises, the rapid sale, which is a key problem for the development of this economy, is a key problem for the development of SDH companies and for the jobs they provide. At this point, I'm going to move on to what SDH's emergency tasks should be. If you ask us, the United Left, of course, it would be the first task of any administration to stop the privatisation of companies such as Telekom Slovenije or Cinkarna Celje. Telekom has been sold for almost 10 years and any new sales or sales attempt is more exhausting, with each new sale, competitors learn more about its weaknesses. The continuation of the sale of Telekom means the continuation of the exhaustion of a good company, the continuation of the exhaustion of an advanced company, our largest telecommunications provider in the country. Therefore, it would be expected from the credible business integrity administration that Telekom would not sell, but would do everything possible to restore the voting rights of the country and that the state would start to run a company owned by it as soon as possible. Any director, every SDH manager with business integrity, will also stop the privatisation of the Celje Cinikarska, which is opposed by all employees and will endanger half of the jobs. That the environmental damage that the acquirer will definitely pass on to the country, and especially to the Celje municipality, I am not even talking about. Any credible administration will also comply with a guidance that is even included in the management strategy, it is said that when an undertaking is privatised, it is necessary to check on SDH first whether there is an interest of employees in this company for redemption. And if this interest exists, the ransom should be enabled. This is why it is the task of any SDH administration today to allow Adria Airways Techniki employees the internal ransom they want because they are able to perform it and because they have already proved that they can run this company. But the question is, how do you get to such an administration? If we are to prevent the problems we are facing today, we need to establish a system that will not allow inappropriate personnel to take the lead. It is therefore necessary to change the system of appointment of the Supervisory Board, since the Supervisory Board is the one who appoints the Governing Board. We have proposed two amendments to the SDH Act, which we tabled in February. We have proposed that half of the members of the Supervisory Board should be appointed employees in state-owned companies and we have proposed that the National Assembly on the other five should vote individually, not in a package. With regard to the representatives of the employees, we have proposed to apply the systemic solution resulting from the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, which is a system law. In this way, the Council of Workers of Important State Enterprises managed by SDH would appoint five representatives to the SDH Supervisory Board. These could be members of these labour councils, but could be external representatives, such as trade union representatives. The Act on the participation of workers allows for both. It is essential, however, that representatives of those who are most interested in working well on SDH and the companies it manages should sit in the supervisory board of the holding company. And I strongly doubt that the working representatives would confirm candidates such as Mrs Runjak, Pirc, Jazbec or Mrs Popovic, who know where the company has progressed at light speed and who controls this company. In February, we proposed that the National Assembly on Candidates for members of the Supervisory Board vote individually. The vote on the common leaf is just the way someone sets you up with a cowardly egg and a way to blackmail – take it or leave it. This is a package you can refuse, but you can accept it. If voted individually, this would significantly increase the likelihood of selectivity, significantly increase the likelihood of obtaining a supervisory board that would not appoint such personnel as he called them existing. It is interesting that the proposers did not support the meeting of these proposals. All right, we know we're on different shores. However, I do not know why the proposals were not supported by a coalition that is devoting itself to economic democracy and transparency. The last one was even a key pre-election promise. In April, the State Secretary of Dragonja assured us that we will be preparing together a new law on SDH to ensure the representation of employees in the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding. We were, of course, prepared to adopt different solutions, as we have suggested, because our interest is to improve the method of appointment, to improve the choice of administration, to put competent people there and consequently to improve the functioning of the state holding company itself. That is why we have been prepared, as we have also told the Secretary, to make any compromises that would go in this direction. On 15 April, Mr Dragonja promised the following, quote: "In principle, we agree with the proposaler that as soon as the governance strategy is adopted through the Government procedure, we will form a working group in which we will participate, and in this way try to make improvements in the single legislative procedure, then cover the matter. Not only is there a few other topics proposed here from the point of view of the government and the law itself being upgraded at this point in time, and we are counting on the legislative process to be under the roof by the end of the year." So these were Mr Draganje's words on April 15th, and with us as the then proposed amendment to the SDH Act, we agree to propose changes that will go in the direction we propose to increase transparency and labour control and that we will have such a law under the roof at the end of the year. The strategy, which he referred to as a turning point for the preparation of the SDH Act, was transmitted to the National Assembly on 18 May, which is more than half a year ago. Since then, we have not received any invitation to participate in the plan for amendments to the SDH Act, since then the Ministry of Finance has not published any draft or announced that this law will change. So it seems obvious to the Government and the coalition a system that excludes employees in state-owned companies from decision-making from SDH and which generates such problems as we have today with Mark Jazbec is completely legitimate and indisputable. All right, but here again I warn you that in the end you will have to answer to citizens and citizens for companies that may be drained by this administration through the payment of dividends or by the appointment of poor supervisors and administrations. This is your responsibility, and we urge you to act while it is still time. The same as SDH is happening with the bad bank law. I could repeat this story on this case, and I won't because we discussed it yesterday. I will just say this – the same pattern is repeated, the coalition does not want to increase the National Assembly, the coalition forbids that employees of their representatives should have in the supervisory bodies, the coalition, even the Ministry of Finance, limits the supervisory powers. Well, apparently the coalition doesn't want to solve these problems. And yet after more than one year in power, you should know that — in any way you are turning around, you are setting up any commission to prevent problems from being solved — your responsibility will ultimately be yours. To conclude, let me define myself before the proposed decisions, although there will be no vote on them today. Of course, in the United Left, we do not object to these conclusions, as we have said in public several times before, certainly to verify all reasonable suspicions. However, we warn the proposer that these conclusions are naive. It is naive to expect the Supervisory Board to verify the legality of the appointment of the administration, when it has just appointed itself. It is naive to expect that the Government, which unanimously appointed the Supervisory Council, will condemn its own procedures. It is said that the only serious way to verify this is through the direct application of the integrity law; however, the direct application of the integrity law implies that the competent institution must do so, according to the KPK. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Dear Mr Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! Before the elections, the modern centre party performed with a slogan and a promise: "We will ensure the functioning of the rule of law." Obviously, voters considered this area the most important and favoured the parties more than a third of their support. They thus granted the mandate to the President of the Modern Centre of the Party, Dr. Mir Cerar. There's nothing wrong with that. From words to actions, it's obviously a long way to go. It's too long. More than a year has passed since the government of Dr. Mir Cerar, and the state of law enforcement has virtually not changed. We can say we've even gone backwards in this area. In view of the responsibility for the resulting bank hole, a number of cases of economic crime, illegal work or non-action of employees and officials in general, no one takes over. There's absolutely no way that they would ever, once and for all, find the drills of a bank hole. But all of them, these employees, officials for their work or for a week or for a bad job, receive and receive a salary. In New Slovenia, we strongly stress that there is no and will not be no responsibility with the names and surnames of the rule of law. There will also be no need for prosperity in the country, as money, profits in state-owned companies and, of course, also in state-owned banks, rather than in development and investment, end up in the accounts of the members of administrations or their co-workers and legal and advisory companies, possibly even in tax havens. In this way, the competitiveness of companies that are doomed in such an environment is overtaken. The current government has dropped out of the rule of law exam. But it's a bit of time for a retrial, but there's not much time for a retrial. Instead of asking for responsibilities, criminal and civil, former members of the administration and supervision of state-owned companies and banks, the government of Dr. Mir Cerar has awarded them with even more important and responsible functions in the largest state-owned companies with approximately 18 billion assets. We would expect the Prime Minister of the Government to demand that instead of the grave verbal slaps he has dedicated to police officers who, on average, with 700 euros of net wages today protect our country from the supervisory board of the Slovenian state holding company to relieve Mark Jazbec from the SDH summit. The government and the coalition are saying that the SDH supervisory council is, of course, an independent body, although we all know that this supervisory council has been appointed by the government of Mir Cerar. The fact is that SDH is a state-owned company, so we cannot accept the Government's argument that the appointment of Mark Jazbec as head of SDH does not concern the Government. The fact is that the Government is the Assembly, the SDH Shareholder Assembly. The fact is, too, that the congregation is appointed by the Governing Council. We know all this and the fact is, I stress that this SDH supervisory council has been appointed by the Government of Mir Cerar. It is clear that this appointment has brought down the main point of the Party's pre-election programme of the modern centre, that is, ethics. This is a typical example of systemic corruption, which the Government is actually advocating as completely non-problem with SDH and DUTB. Despite the warnings received by Slovenia by the OECD and GRECO, which warned us that of all EU countries, we have the worst system of rotating doors than the emerging forms of systemic corruption. It is a matter of one and the same officials moving from one institution to another through associations and knowledge and other forms of corruption in a broader sense, transferring knowledge, information, connections and everything else, and in particular representing the interests of precisely defined networks in their operation, of course, those that do not comply with the legislation. And in specific cases of recruitment in the Company for the Management of Claims of Banks and the Slovenian State Holding, these are school cases of rotating doors that have thus received all the necessary legitimacy. Therefore, a debate in the National Assembly on the recent recruitment of the Government into SDH and DUTB authorities and administrations is necessary and necessary. This is the attitude of the Government and the National Assembly towards corruption in our country. Colleagues and colleagues, our only tool, the only tool for parliamentarians is a debate, a reasoned and fair debate. We're the government's supervisory authority. And what consequences does corruption have for society? It undermines public confidence in state institutions and the rule of law, reduces the integrity of society as a whole and the importance of integrity as social values, reduces the budget of countries, local communities, businesses and so on. In the interests of the private interests of the perpetrators of a corrupt act, it unlawfully places other individuals in an unequal position or restricts them in the exercise of their fundamental rights, results in inefficiencies of various procedures – administrative, judicial, police, procurement, employment, restricts free competition on the market and so on. And, to which the Government should pay particular attention, corruption undermines democracy and undermines the legitimacy of the Government, its organs and institutions, moral rules and fairness.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u16	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Today's DUTB and SDH issues are human resources issues. We live in turbulent times characterized by migration, terrorism and financial crime. The common denominator of these factors is financial flows. Following financial flows will expose the culprits and lead to a more successful society. Because we don't want to detect these flows, there is terrorism, there is financial crime, and that is the key to SDH and DUTB. The government, as such, must take responsibility. If I simplify these standards of OECD corporate governance, I can say that the Government creates policy, implements mechanisms of responsibility in these companies and responds to Parliament. The government refers to this and is caught in its own trap, the prime minister caught up in his own trap when he promoted morality, ethics and new standards. This is more than a crime. The government is now citing, it is clear that these people have not been proven to have committed crimes and that these are not crimes. Of course it's not a crime. That's something more than last year's election. What's more? This is corruption in a broader sense as defined in OECD standards, GRECO standards and elsewhere. If someone who doesn't know her tried to explain it to someone who doesn't know her, I could tell them, just like the child we explain to him what a giraffe looks like — it has four legs, it has a long neck, and then it's hard to explain, but according to your description, when he sees it, he'll recognize it. It is the same with corruption in a broader sense. It's a conflict of interest, dealing with influence when we're trading with a person we've given her a position we shouldn't occupy. This is the phenomenon of the rotating doors mentioned by my colleague Horvat. It is the emergence of informal networks and lobbying in a negative sense. All of these are not crimes, but corruption in a broader sense that harms Slovenia, which harms the whole world, harms development, and therefore we have on the one hand a couple of rich people with non-transparent assets and on the other hand a whole bunch of poor people, and so there are no hospitals, no roads and no social development. What are these forms? And putting an end to this kind of corruption? What the government refers to, the crimes of blue envelopes and the like, is revealed by the police. We have criminal legislation, but since there are no witnesses, these crimes have been found very little. Then we have actions that fall within the field of financial crime. This is revealed by the financial institutions through the institute of reverse burden of proof, as we discussed on many committees in this very National Assembly. And we're also pretty weak here, because now we'd rather send FURS staff to the border than you would be involved in detecting the finances of both terrorists and those who sponsor them. And then we have the worst thing the Government has promised to do in this reference to Parliament, but we will really fight it – this is corruption in the broadest sense, elite corruption. This kind of corruption cannot be detected by the police and the prosecution, because it is not a crime. Financial institutions can't detect it either, because money is safe hidden in tax havens through so-called 'white-collar' criminals. We read in the media: Cyprus, Dubai, tax havens in the Caribbean, Luxembourg, case, etc. Investigative journalists reveal this type of criminality, but we don't have real investigative journalism. If we saw a key person on national television a few days ago, we witnessed something that has not yet been seen in independent Slovenia. We had a person who read corruption in the widest sense, a journalist who asked questions, and a third person at a table whose functions no one knows. What was this third person doing in the studio so that a key question might not be raised? It's independent journalism, I wonder. It is these independent journalists who could point to such actions. Most of this, of course, reveals the online media and the future of this is in online media. What are the sanctions? The penalty is that these kinds of people cannot rotate their positions through a rotating door system. The key is what position they get in their first appointment. Do they have appropriate references? In this National Assembly, I have warned from the holidays that we are not rushing with SDH overseers, because we do not know if they have the right references, but they have been elected. Now we see that things are only getting worse because we have people's wrongs, but once they're in the right places, then it's no problem to turn around. And so far, as we've been alerting you to these problems, everyone's been saying, "Where are the names?".. He's got names now. On the basis of the courageous people who pointed out this, such as supervisors and similar ones who highlighted themselves, especially in other institutions, Darsa’s supervisors and the like. People started saying names because they had enough, and those names started to circulate. It is up to us and others to punish these names so that they are no longer appointed to the appropriate jobs provided by the networks to which they belong. That we are united, the networks can be positive or negative; I am here exposing the network in a negative sense. These are closed networks, whose membership is secret, working only for the benefit of this network, but Slovenia will draw open networks from this mud. At the lowest level, these are families who help each other when someone is in trouble when someone loses a job. And then wider, non-governmental organizations and others that will be able to move Slovenia for the better. If I focus now on the problem of this government and this rule. The worst problem is the phenomenon of rotating doors, when people rotate and transfer information and connections and acquaintances and disable those who have references, but cannot occupy the right positions. This is pointed out by some NGOs, and it has been the World Bank that has been pointing out the impact of informal networks in its research for several years, even through indices. And it's the transit countries that turn out to be the worst. It is said that the emergence of informal networks has been recognised both in Europe and elsewhere; much has been said about global networks such as Bilderbergs, freewallers and the like, but these small, informal networks, which control small systems and control individual countries, are key. If I focus on another problem, the problem of supervisors. The problem of supervisors is key in Slovenia. What does it mean? We have a whole bunch of these control mechanisms that aren't being implemented. To this day, a person who was elected to a supervisory office did not respond with his property, and this is well documented in the legislation. Thus, the reference to legislation does not work because we do not want it or we do not know how to implement it, and the problem is that it is precisely because these networks have been involved in writing legislation and are now successfully assisting those who have been in judicial proceedings and then have an impact on a favourable solution for network members. What else can we read to the government? This lack of transparency can be seen by the government. The government has decided to delete the government's magnetograms. I wonder if the government's conclusions are even legitimate if they disappear after a certain period of time, but I can't verify what they've come up with. I'm also wondering what it would be like if someone wanted to explore for archival material what had happened in a period of time. This is the transparency of the government that was promised. If I finish. We see that informal networks have kidnapped our country so that we can do something on our own to put the right people in the right places; I do not accept the fact or the fact that there are no people in Slovenia who are not involved in such networks. They're people like that, but we haven't given them a chance yet. The worst part is that we have a bank hole, that the people who participated in creating this bank hole are now the ones who somehow privatise the same transfers and the currents created from the bank holes again. And I think it's time to create some kind of movement that will be anti-corruption movement, which will be the country that was seized by those who participated in the bank hole to expose these links and this open movement for all people will exceed the state that we have in Slovenia. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u17	The text is addressed to Mr Branko Zorman, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The government or policy must not interfere with the day-to-day management of state-owned companies and must leave the authorities of state-owned companies to carry out their tasks, while respecting their independence. This is what the law says, and this is what the corporate governance guidelines of state-owned companies say. The SDH-1 Act for the first time establishes the principle of independence and establishes a transparent method of appointing the Supervisory Board after professional qualifications. Accordingly, SDH and its authorities are not bound by the instructions of the State authorities, and this is also stated in the law. The current government has actually implemented the law for the first time, including by appointing a new SDH supervisory board, and it is necessary to know that by then the authorities have been designated primarily political. The current government has made great progress in the area of corporate governance recommendations, including ensuring that SDH is finally fully operational and that SDH is professionally managed. Let me remind you that SDH originated from the date of the implementation of the SDH Act, with the transformation of the Slovenian Compensation Company into SDH. The same law requires that the SDH Supervisory Council should be appointed within three months of the entry into force of the law. For the record, this law was adopted in April 2014. With regard to the new SDH administration, it should be said that the former members of the SDH administration have already become members of the board of directors in the previous Slovenian Compensation Society, and they have remained automatically or also become members of the SDH administration for a term of five years or until the appointment of a new administration. Attention, to the appointment of a new administration! We have therefore elected new SDH supervisors in the National Assembly, and in accordance with the legislation they have begun the process of improving the SDH administration, as it is legally composed of the president of the administration and two members of the administration. The SDH Supervisory Board has drawn up a nomination committee which has carried out procedures for selecting candidates in several rounds. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the president of the SDH Supervisory Board, Mr Damjan Belic, also explained the whole procedure and the arguments for the choice. In the light of the clarifications made by the Government and the SDH Supervisory Board President of the Modern Centre Party Group, we have no reason to doubt the legality of the procedures, but we have not been persuaded by the motioners' arguments, so we have already rejected all the proposed recommendations of the proposers on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. With regard to the Company for Bank Claims Management, it should be pointed out that the Government, at its meeting on 5 March 2015, adopted a set of measures to improve the functioning of the DUTB and accordingly adopted amendments to the DUTB Management Board and endorsed the new DUTB remuneration policy. The Government's communication on the appointment of new non-executive directors was that it was their main task to help address the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors and by the Government and to ensure the effective functioning of the DUTB in the future. The Government then dismissed Mr Lars Erik Nyberg, President of the Management Board, in accordance with the irregularities found, and called off the Executive Director of Torbjörn Münsson for a loss of confidence, acting in the role of the assembly under the DUTB Statute. In both cases, the Government has therefore acted in accordance with its powers to ensure the transparent and legitimate functioning of the DUTB, taking into account the specific role they have played in the DUTB. Mr Logar, the motioner, said, "this meeting should not be." And it's true, it shouldn't be. We can certainly assess today's debate in the National Assembly as an obstacle to the functioning of the DUTB. SDH and DUTB have their tasks, and such a discussion certainly does not benefit from the execution of sales procedures and not from the acquisition of strategic buyers or partners for the companies being sold. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the representative of the Government and the Chairman of the SDH Supervisory Board fully clarified the procedures and argued the reasons for all the personnel changes around SDH and DUTB that took place due to the legal obligations or the more effective functioning of the two institutions. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we therefore do not accept the views of the proposers and believe that such discussions harm citizens rather than benefit them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u19	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! I'm going to look back a little bit first on pre-election time. The time when Mr Cerar spoke much about morality, the high ethical standards and values that Slovenians should follow and should lose. He even had a number of lectures on this subject: ethics, corruption, honesty, which is not in politics. That was in the time before he officially entered politics. According to him, Slovenians should move to a higher level with their moral and ethical standards. Today I know that one word is Mr Cerar, and the other is the actions of the Government of Mir Cerar. When the government team was set up, there was a lot of promise about the reforms that Slovenia urgently needs, but we have not seen them to date, which, given the recently adopted budget, is not expected even in the next two years. There's been a lot of talk about decommissioning an economy that unfortunately isn't. However, we are getting additional burdens on the economy, which will certainly not contribute to anything positive. With the very content of the real problems of our country, this Government has not done much so far, but it has devoted itself very much to human resources, and this is clearly one of the real priorities of the Government of Mir Cerar. Today we will talk about cases of recruitment in two companies. Companies owned by the state, which jointly manage about €18 billion. On the part of the Government of Mir Cerar, the so-called bad bank or the Company for Bank Claims Management was primarily at the time of the impact. The basic guide taken by the Government here is that it is necessary to withdraw a leading foreigner, regardless of their international recognition and expertise, despite the fact that the Government's representatives themselves have pointed out that the DUB is doing well. The fight for power at the DUTB summit also took place with the help of the media spin on the high salaries of leaders and onward with the issue of mistrust. We also know that the Secretary of State himself, at a joint meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Control and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, has publicly acknowledged that he has tried to influence the management of the DUTB on the conduct of an individual company. He acknowledged, therefore, that he had a political impact on the DUTB, which should otherwise act independently. The political influence began when DUTB started selling the assets and claims transferred to it. We are talking about assets worth about EUR 5 billion. About EUR 5 billion, which required Slovenia to commit itself and to transfer the burden of this debt to taxpayers. In particular, the issue of continuing recruitment is that all further recruitments are linked to people associated with banks from which transfers to a bad bank have been made. At the time of granting disputed inadequately secured loans or loans granted on friendly terms, these people were sitting on the board, the supervisory board or the bank’s credit committee, because it means that they are responsible for the granting of bad loans which were transferred to the so-called bad bank below. Now these people are going to influence the sale of this property or the claim. This will allow their friends to take control of businesses that are or will be on sale for a small amount of money. Which means that we have a so-called new one on the horizon, we can say that the Taiwanese march of these people who would like to get what they have lost by mismanagement and debt in the past. The new Chairman of the DURB Management Board became Marko Simoneti, who was chairman of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank in 2009-2012, this is just when the new SDH President, Mr Jazbec, granted these controversial loans. When the Government of Mira Cerar took care of the bad bank, it also settled with the management of the Slovenian State Holding and placed on its top the already mentioned Mr. Jazbec, who was a member of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank from 2009 to 2012, who approved the contested loans to companies that had never returned them because they had failed or ended up in the bad bank itself. Of course, we are here to witness a number of diversions, both by the Minister of Finance and by the President of the Government himself. Where are the high ethical standards of the Government of Mir Cerar in these personnel, I wonder? It is more than obvious that the President of the Government agrees with the contested staffing; as he himself states, he trusts the supervisory boards of these two organisations. That is why today those responsible for the creation of the bank hole manage five or thirteen billion euro of state assets. And instead of being responsible for the bank hole, they were well rewarded for it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been assessing the recruitment of the government of Mir Cerar as extremely problematic and unacceptable and have been asking for a long time where is the real reason for the exchange at the DUB summit and at the SDH summit? The real reason has not yet been explained to us. We also ask the Government whether it estimates that such staffing is good for Slovenia? DUTB and SDH are state-owned 100 percent. The government is the one who changes the supervisory board, but it is known what the powers of the supervisory board are in the individual society. The statement by the President of the Government that the appointment of administrations is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board and that the Government has absolutely nothing to do with it shows the relationship that this government has with citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u22	Have a good evening. Mr President, the Secretary-General, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me start by saying that in the DeSUS Group, we did not support the recommendations on the parent's working body. Our opposition was, in particular, of a substantive nature, but not of a technical nature. With regard to the recommendation that the Government, as a assembly, should dismiss members of the management or control bodies, it should be said that the Government does not have legal powers in the case of SDH to dispose of either the members of the administration or the members of the supervisory board. The members of the Board shall be appointed and dismissed by the SDH Supervisory Board. With regard to the recall of SDH members, Article 44 of the SDH Law provides that they may be recalled by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. With regard to the proposaler's statement that he sees no problem in the fact that the Government is in charge, we must remind ourselves that such claims are to be extremely cautious. In the DeSUS Group, we allow the possibility that this was an unfortunate expression, since in this statement it is possible to recognize the desire to continue political culture in this area. A culture of direct interference with the functioning of state-owned companies which has led to the exhaustion of some of the previously well-established companies. The Slovenian State Holding Act was written just to prevent political influence on the day-to-day management of state-owned companies. We'd like to highlight the following. In a way, it's understandable that people take on doubts. Two, when the management of a company that manages more than 12 billion state assets is taken over by someone who has been on the board of a bank for whom we have gone deep into our pockets. We have also cut our own ears at the beginning, but we need to listen to a variety of arguments, such as when the bank hole was actually created. Without being defined in any way as to the decision of the Supervisory Board on the replacement, we must admit that we were initially disturbed by the media silence about the reasons for the replacement. In the proposal, a number of suggestions were made, and we heard from the proposalers' mouth that the Government had been kidnapped by the lobbyists and that it was their hostage. We hope that at least the fact that one of your main protagonists or lobbyists has resigned from his position will ease the thought of the uncles behind. In the Desus Group, we believe that state-owned companies must be governed by laws, both SDH and DUTB, as well as the upcoming Reserve Demographic Fund. Members of Desus can do everything within our powers to ensure that the management of state-owned companies is careful and cost-effective, and in particular we will ensure that the sale of state property does not take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First, one of the proponents came forward, that's mag. Ange Logar. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u24	Thank you, President. I am grateful to my colleague Kovacichev that she said quite honestly that they had their ears cut when they were appointed in the beginning. That means there's still some healthy core in the coalition. For when Mark Jazbec was appointed head of SDH, all the ears should be cut down here in the hall. They didn't. And unfortunately, we can't just stop at the fact that we got caught up in our ears at first, but then we kind of got along with the government's decision. How would you feel if, at the head of the commission for the detection of hidden graves, Miro Cerar called Danil Türk? Or if, for example, here in the National Assembly, a coalition for a Constitutional Judge voted as John Zemleric? We'd probably cut a lot of ears. But this appointment of Mark Jazbec at the head of SDH is absolutely no more controversial than these two appointments or unusual, which I have just mentioned. I hope you're not going to come up with the ideas I've given you with this implementation, but still. The coalition is very close to its eyes and ears when it says that it has nothing to do with this appointment. Look, I hear from the coalition all the time that this is an independent appointment and that politics has nothing to do with this appointment. We're not naive in this country. We know these procedures quite well, and we also know the discussions quite well in this direction. For example, if we take the analogy of Parliament; the government appoints Parliament, gives it a mandate, and then the Government acts on its own. And then comes with stupid solutions such as the appointment of the director of UKC Ljubljana Baričič. And then what? You coalition MPs say that we have nothing to do with this in the coalition – or how? Then you coalition Members do not want to participate and have a debate on this subject on the Health Committee. You do not want to comment, although in the end you will lose your job in the National Assembly because the voters will end up punishing you for the government's bad decisions. And the exact same thing is in the management of state property. Politics has named the World of Hostages. She named them there for purpose. In the control world, for example, there are party people. Therefore, do not talk about the fact that there is a distance between appointment and policy. And also be honest – if you claim to be a distant appointment from politics, I don't know why the Secretary of State is defending this appointment, because it's a policy of distant appointment, because politics has nothing to do with it. So why defend something he has nothing to do with? Look, we're talking about some famous Jazbec-Simoneti connection and Barbara Smolnikar joins them. These three people worked together in the New Ljubljana Bank. Together they were employees, together they contributed to the bank hole. But their path didn't start here. Their journey started at the SKB Bank, the same together. The chief of the main clients was then Mr Narat, Jazbec was his subordinate and Barbara Smolnikar was the head of the retail. Shall I tell you what happened to the SKB bank? It's almost gone. Three people were at the SKB Bank until 2002. At the time, the SKB had so many bad loans that it was the first major bank to be forced to find the owner abroad. Three banks came to review the portfolio of the Bank’s SKB – due dilligent. According to the results found, two banks gave up on the SKB bank. One decided to take over. That's why these people had to leave the bank. They've come to the New Ljubljana Bank. What happened to the New Ljubljana Bank? EUR 5 billion is a whole hole, a billion-and-a-half deposit only in the New Ljubljana Bank. And those responsible had to leave. And where are you putting them now? At the head of SDH and DUTB and the SDH supervisory board. The same people, the same stories, you say, "Let's give them another chance." The current Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič, when he was the head of the Anti-Corruption Commission, wrote about systemic corruption as follows in 2010: "The preparatory phase of systemic corruption is characterised by a more or less pronounced disregard or a decrease in the importance of legal and ethical standards, the emergence and development of smaller interest groups, the click to take advantage of others' accounts - the click on public functions, as well as the destruction of the internal culture of the organisation, the institution, the system, which in time creates a deep gap and conflict between the declared institutional values on one and the hidden corrupt purposes and objectives of influential individuals and groups on the other." Next: "This is the environment in which the organisation, institution or system actually becomes a prisoner, prey of individuals, interest groups or clicks that operate in their own narrow interest. The external signs of such a situation in public institutions appear to be a very low level of integrity, transparency and accountability for the legal protection and ethical values of a democratic society and, on the other hand, a very low level of public confidence in institutions." Don't you think it's quite an accurate analysis and assessment of the current situation? Now a little bit about the facts. Marko Jazbec was Chairman of the New Ljubljana Bank Credit Committee between 2009 and 2012. The President of the Supervisory Board was Marko Simonetti. To operate hand in hand, you can read in a magnetogram of the hearings before the Pogačnik Parliamentary Commission, where Marko Jazbec also revealed this. The fact is, the government was in a hurry to appoint SDH supervisors. Although it was then only in June that the media guessed that the appointment would take place, the government quickly appointed them and for two weeks thereafter convened the National Assembly, an extraordinary meeting ahead of the summer holidays for the coalition members to confirm this Supervisory Council. Not all of you. He won 45 votes, and he didn't get an absolute majority. Then the SDH control council disappeared for a while to lay down a little bit, and then at the night session of the 26th. 10. replaced the entire leadership SDH. The fact is also that Marko Jazbec signed and distributed a lot of bad credits at the time he was head of the credit board at Nova Ljubljanska Bank. Montavar 26 million euros, Contingency 59 million euros at a weak bank, Hotels Bernardin 6.6 million euros. Among other things, he then took a job at the Bernardin Hotels as director. It is also true that Mark Jazbec's wife works as Director of Budget at Dusan Marble. It is also true that Marko Jazbec at the Bernardin Hotels hired Cerara's senior official, Juret Lebn, who is known from the affair of his education. And the fact is, after leaving NLB — it was obvious then that the person infected with these bad loans could no longer work in NLB — that Matthew Narat, the head of the Sava gave him the job. And the fact is that every Monday there were coordinations between the business group and Marko Jazbec. Therefore, it cannot be independent when it comes to the issue of Sava and Sava tourism. And in the SDH supervisory council there is also Barbara Smolnikar, who, as I have already said, is quite a close link between the three actors mentioned. Let's see what the government has said about our demands. That politics and government should not interfere with the day-to-day management of societies; I do not recall being involved here in the day-to-day management of societies. I remember, however, that before DUTB's headship, for example, Mr Dragojan has often circled around the functioning of the DUTB and told them how they should deal with the relevant decisions related, since we know who, with Savo, we know who. And what worries me – when the government writes that it is determined to continue to implement the new concept of corporate governance, as we see it today, when even coalition MPs cut their ears. What do they say about Mr. Jazbec? For example, the Sunday Diary – we know where it belongs – recently wrote, quote: "Therefore, it was necessary to put the right people at the head of the DUTB and SDH public property management companies, which the perfectly manipulated President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, agreed and even became their advocate. "And then: "This is how we got the new hero of Slovenian banking, two Mark – Simoneti and Jazbec, who are convinced that they are the only chosen ones who have been called for the sale of state property. And they are right, because so far their hair has not been wronged, even though they have to show a little success, and in their thinking there is a ploy to explain God's mission to the Slovenian capital mafia." Sunday's diary, so there's no mistake. Then we have, say, 2011; the Maribor Montavar is liquidated, it's co-covered by NLB. Goran Mladenović: "Leading men NLB Jašovic, Jazbec, Jezerc took me to a planned business fraud in the Bosniapute business." Next: "I say that the President of the NLB administration Božo Jašovic, member of the board of directors Marko Jazbec and Director of the business centre for the large companies Tomaž Jezerc are involved in this case. They were the ones who came to me with valuable notes and fake balances, and I didn't ask them for credit." 26 million euros in this deal is at a bad bank today. Next, let's say from last November – "In Maribor they did what they approved in Ljubljana" – for that period: "In Maribor we only signed credits which were approved by the board or credit committee in Ljubljana, that is, by their authority." For loans at a bad bank, 26 million euros. Slovenians have a saying, I think it's kind of like, if you look like a duck, if it's acting like a duck, then it's probably a duck. If I paraphrase this proverb with Klemenczyk's words, I would say that if something acts as a click, it acts as a click, then it probably clicks. My question to the President of the Government is: The coalition contract states, namely: "In order to ensure a return of confidence in financial institutions, supervisory institutions, the institution of the rule of law, it is necessary to define responsibility for the resulting bank hole and to require compensation and substantive responsibility of the members of the administration and the supervisory boards." Marko Simoneti and Marko Jazbec were members of the board or supervisory board at a time when bad loans were made and the bank hole deepened. I wonder whether the Government, with Mark Jazbec and Mark Simoneti, has defined this responsibility, on what basis it has been defined, how it has been defined, and where the document, where this definition has been misled, is written, and where it is clear that, despite the fact that a 2 billion-euro weakening has occurred in the New Bank of Ljubljana during this period, are not responsible for this weakness? I want to know where this document is, if you're so sure this appointment is real and if you don't think it's at all controversial. Yesterday or before yesterday, Mr Jazbec had an interview on national television. Look, Jazbec, whatever he's trying to do now as someone who's just doing his job, I don't know, the Chairman of the Credit Committee and a member of the Executive Board; he was one of the key personnel in the New Ljubljana Bank. In addition to being a member of the Executive Board, he was also the Chairman of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank of Belgrade, he was also the Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board of the Banja Luka Development Bank, he was also the Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board of the Tuzlan Bank, he was also the Chairman of the NLB Leasing Ljubljana Supervisory Board and he was also the Chairman of the CBS Supervisory Board of Invest Sarajevo. He was one of the key personnel. And the functions I've listed are mostly from abroad. If you listened to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, he told you at the 2014 annual report that the situation of bad loans in branches outside Slovenia had not reduced completely nothing, that the bad loans created at the time of the creation of bad loans were still there. And this interview, why I mention it, quite well describes Mr Jazbec's role. For him, the fact that at the time he was chairman of the New Ljubljana Bank credit committee, that he gave credit, which was then not returned, to the Bernardin hotels, and then became President of the Bernardin Hotel Administration, is absolutely no dispute. And, as he says, the loss to NLB was due to poor portfolio activity before its period. Do you know who was in front of him? Mr. Narat. However, although he says so, as the current President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank has said to the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, between 2009 and 2012, he has taken no appropriate measure to establish responsibility for his predecessor, i.e. for Mr Narat. If I go back to what the government is saying about that third member, Barbara Smolnikar. In fact, it says that candidates for members of the board, the Supervisory Board, submitted a statement before the decision was taken to reveal whether they were in circumstances that would create a conflict of interest. Look at this trust of SDH supervisors! They did not carry out that test of liability required by the coalition contract, but only asked the candidates to sign some statements that there was no suspicion or circumstances or doubts about impartiality. Moreover, at Barbara Smolnikar, she wrote that there are "no circumstances which would create the appearance that affect the impartial and objective performance of public duties due to private interests and other natural persons, legal persons with whom I have or have had special business or political contacts." But with those mentioned, even though she has appointed a supervisor, she has had 20 years of personal and political contact. So the government doesn't believe it either. Then we'll go back there to the beginning of the appointment I mentioned earlier. President of the SDH Supervisory Board; he justified his decision by the Supervisory Board for the three candidates mentioned, namely that Mrs Anja Strojin Printpar is committed, Mrs Drobne Popovic is committed and working, and Mr Jazbec has high ethical standards and should be given the opportunity to present himself. Look, if he says that with everything we've listed and how many coalition Members are cutting their ears, there is a possibility, and you must also allow that to be questioned by the Chairman of the SDH Supervisory Board, Mr Belic. Look, this is a graph printed from the supervisor. Remember, six. Ten. The government heads the DUTB, removes all foreign personnel and preserves our boys. So, Chief Supervisor Marko Simoneti and the new Executive Director of Slovenia. Look what happens in October. One big column. Dusan Belic gets a contract with DUTB and in the first month, only in October earns EUR 8 000 700. The SDH supervisor has had a contract with the DUTB, which, as we can see, has been in service since October, that is, right from the moment the government, on a proposal from the Government, changed because of alleged mistrust, due to high wages, and began to serve with this money. Then, of course, the 26th head of SDH also appoints exactly what he wants to be, to place Mark Jazbec, Simoneti's colleague from the time of the New Ljubljana Bank. That's 26. 10th, this night's meeting was a bit of a bad day for Mr. Belic. Here I have the District Court ruling in Celje, which says it's 26. Ten. Damjana Belic has been dismissed from the post of bankruptcy manager for breach of obligations and has failed to comply with the court's instructions, and has failed to do so in breach of Article 101 TFEUIPPP. The party notes or says that it has allowed the individual creditor to benefit from the procedure at the expense of other creditors and that it has tried to make it difficult to prove to the creditor and thus contributed to the fact that the creditor and ordinary creditors by dividing the purchase price for the quarry of Libya have been harmed and the creditor of AHAC d.o.o. used to their account. So, the President of the Supervisory Board, who is supposed to be removed from the policy that is supposed to be the highest moral authority, at some point gets a contract at the DUTB, while the court finds that he is acting on a biased basis in the bankruptcy proceedings and therefore dismisses him. Do you know how many times this happens in court? Very rare, once or twice a year. And the president of the SDH Supervisory Board, the "church de la church" of management and high standards, is one of them. So perhaps the words spoken by such a representative are not dry gold. And maybe he was put there for some reason and put by a coalition. Therefore, since the coalition has set it up, the coalition also assumes responsibility, and in this respect it is also on its shoulders to find out that the decisions that were already at the beginning of the dispute, which at first seemed controversial, which also seem to be controversial, are also controversial. And they shall think of it: for all things, for I say, come out of this place. Politics has badly cut into the management of Slovenian property and it is time that this new policy, which you have in the coalition contract, is also implemented by the opposition helping me do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u25	There is another representative of the proposer, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to respond to some of the statements made by individual Members in the context of the views of the groups of Members and the Secretary of State or ask for further clarifications. The thing about political recruitment is that it has been present in this country for as long as the state has existed. Since then, it has been politically incurring and not blinding its eyes, respected members of the coalition, and convincing us that the government has nothing to do with these personnel. If the new members of the Slovenian state holding company or the new non-executive director of the DUTB, Mr Simoneti would not have been at your request, they would probably have decided that moment, on the proposal of the Government, to replace the supervisory board of the Slovenian state holding company in the National Assembly. But I apologize, not according to your wishes, but according to the wishes of the uncles in the background or the lobbying and the networks. It is the colliding of one and the same people we have known since the time of the Slovenian transition or since the 1990s. It's about the same people. Because of this blindness, "we have nothing to do with this", look, this is completely meaningless speech. Ask your secretary-in-chief how he's recruiting, and they'll tell you. They get together, as always in coordination, and they agree on what will be ours, what will be yours and so on. So selling these pumpkins is completely meaningless. You are here matrating, trying, putting up faces and protecting, even within the framework of today's session, your back or your face to those people who are politically trained, defending them for a good payday, of course, but these guys in your account for your back turn billions of euros. You should be aware of that. And that the election will be lost or the result won by you guys, not those guys. So, you're matrating, you're trying to represent as good a policy as possible, even more, you're defending the government, how it's deploying, and the machinery's running behind it, and they have nothing to do with the SMC, not the SD or Desus. Yeah, sure. A lot of you guys really don't have anything to do with this, but it's money and cash flow. I would like to ask further questions to the Secretary of State, and before that, I would like to say: The President of the Government said, in the context of the questions sent, that there is nothing illegal about this appointment and that we have all done something in the past and that we have a certain history. Okay, but if I've done something bad before, I've done my job badly, will I continue to be appointed to the same position as I did before, even though I did it badly? That's the principle. And when you speak when the Secretary of State says that the gentlemen are distinguished by the criteria of integrity and business performance, ability, competence to lead, I ask you, list five references Mr. Jazbec has to lead the Slovenian State Holding. Five references. He will now be involved in restructuring companies, selling businesses, privatising. He didn't learn that in banking, did he? Furthermore, business excellence. I still don't have an answer. What kind of business excellence do you gentlemen find beautiful? In order to understand correctly the credits in 2011-2012 when Mr President of the Credit Committee; once again, I must mention, Mr Secretary of State, the loans granted: €40 million to Savi, €31 million to Mercury, €16 million to Vegrad, €40 million to ACH. Where are these companies today?Oh, my God! And where's that money?Oh, my God! But if unsecured claims don't convince you, let's look at the business results. In 2009, once again, NLB €87 million in losses, 2010 €202 million in losses, 2011 €239 million in losses, in 2012 €274 million in losses. And you say, "Yeah, that's the inherited results from the previous administration." For God's sake, they were either colleagues or they were. They've given each other credit. And even though the results were inherited; Mr. Jazbec then went to the Bernardin Hotels, and there he once again did "excellent" business. What are the results? He ran them for three years, and no business excellence. Well, I'm interested in the criteria for this business excellence. What criteria does the Government assess to be appropriate? On the basis of what these criteria are, I hope you'll give me an argument. We're talking about competence to run a state holding company. Speaking of the invitation to tender itself, one more thing that we have not received within the Committee is the response to the documentation of the meeting, the magnetogram. Will the government require this documentation or is it already? In fact, this documentation, the magnetograms of the meetings, all the catalogues in this context, all the procedures must be recorded in accordance with the law and I am interested in whether the Government is doing anything in this area. At the beginning, we also talked about corporate governance. Secretary of State, you have said that the convening of our meeting is contrary to the views of corporate governance. See, the responsibility for the Slovenian state holding company, including the administration, is vested in the Government as a congregation. But if you tell the public - believe it, no one believes you - that you have nothing to do with what the SDH supervisory board does; they are, according to your own words, pumpkins. You are well aware of every session the supervisory councils have, not only the SDH supervisory council, but also the supervisory councils of individual societies. And to return, nothing was done illegal. Yeah, maybe. The appointment itself was not illegal as such, but all this, business excellence is required in Article 46 of the Slovenian State Holding Act! And please make sure not only of me, but of the entire Slovenian public – at least according to the research, it does not trust you about political recruitment – convince the Slovenian public otherwise. At the appointment of Mr Jazbec, the Prime Minister said: "Until I have the opposite evidence, I trust the SDH supervisory board that the procedure has been carried out legally." That's what we trust. "But if someone proves that it has not been carried out legally, the Government will have to take action." Has anyone proved it to be legal? For free after the President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before he became President of the Government, we did not speak of any legality at that time. All we talked about was the mess that needs to be cleaned up. But you know that infamous saying: Not every pig is a crime. Next up, dutb. We also talked in one of the meetings about the shortcomings that DUTB has, especially in the case of T-2, which was also stated by the Constitutional Court that we were right, we also mentioned the Sava, Autotechno and so on. But there is no way that we can agree, the distinguished Secretary of State, the respected Government, with the way we have talked about it in previous sessions – by the way you have chosen to resolve the leadership of this society and to re-appointed it. And I'll tell you again who you named. This circle goes back from the New Ljubljana Bank. Someone who was in the period of unsecured loans, one of the key people in the New Ljubljana Bank, or after that period – Mr Simoneti – when they had to file criminal charges against these people, did nothing. And 14 days ago, the current director of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Mr. Medja, said: "When we came to the New Ljubljana Bank, we were before things, things, supposed criminal services would expire." Yeah, who's to blame for getting these things out of the way? Those who were in positions of responsibility at the time in the NLB – Head of Control, Mr Simoneti, and Mr Jazbec. And today, you have one at the DUTB, 4 billion euros in governance, and one in the Slovenian State Holding Company, allegedly 14 billion euros is the value of these companies. Well, somehow I don't even know if the coalition believes itself to be doing the right thing. [[…]] And when I spoke with some Members, including the ruling coalitions, the last time I spoke, I also received answers to why so few of you were reported in the debate today. This type of political recruitment is difficult to defend. At the end of this first intervention, I would like to remind you of a statement by Mr Cerar on 29 January 2013 at the Pen Club. He stressed the following: "If we do not improve the ethical situation in society, then we will only go down." We talked to such and similar positions, of course we agree with, during the election campaign. And on August 25, 2014, Mr Cerar said: "I will do everything I have to and I know for the good of Slovenia." And we also agree with that and we support Mr Cerar here. However, we cannot support the ruling coalition, when words are just words about ethics and there is no action on the other hand that would, of course, follow. And once again, I agree, not every piece of shit is a crime, but it's unethical.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Method Dragonja, dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, this debate seeks to define responsibility for staff decisions at the Slovenian State Holding and at the Banks Claims Management Company. He wants to define those responsible for the human resources decisions in those state institutions. We're not a court of law. We, New Slovenia, will not condemn anyone, God forbid, nor accuse anyone. No, no, no. It is the only tool we have for parliamentarians, and this is the debate, to draw attention to irregularities. And these irregularities are present in our society. I know that today, being Prime Minister of the Government is probably not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere, the hardest profession. But in our case, people have entrusted this to Dr. Miroslav Cerar and, of course, also expect him to rule fairly, ethically, for the benefit of all of us, for the benefit of the whole country, all of us citizens and citizens, and that is what this is about. And I don't know why it's bad will to be here again this Friday afternoon, Friday night so we can go home and so on. Of course, laziness has only this quality, the only good quality that it is casual, has no other characteristics. Just that she's casual. And if we look at the functioning of the National Assembly at a longer time interval, let's say one year, let's say a mandate period, it would be really interesting for some student to be having fun with it and to look at all of our discussions, all of our magnetograms, and then we would certainly find out what I claim is that an extremely large proportion of our discussions would fall into discussions on the bank hole and on the governance of state assets. There is hardly a session when someone is not involved in this area, or of course we have regular meetings of working bodies with this subject or regular meetings or extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly on this subject. That is why we say that it is imperative that, once in our heads, we switch and adopt that politics must withdraw from the economy. Look, it's hard for me. This coalition, or more precisely, Mr Erjavec, has achieved that the Insurance Company is a strategic investment. Thank God we have the media – because, of course, we cannot monitor everything, nor can we go into the intestines of any company, even if it is state-owned – and the media have discovered that there has been quite a few people there lately. This has been achieved by one of the presidents of the coalition party. And that's what the committee, the clients of the Triglav Insurance Company, is looking at and clapping? They probably don't clap. Because they know that each one of them can calculate, anyone who can count to 10 can calculate that his insurance premium if he secures his house against fire, against the I don't know, the storm, that his insurance premium for ninjas is even higher due to irrational recruitment. [[…]] Let's leave names, last names, I don't care who got a job there unnecessarily. Former Member Joseph Horvat will never get her and trust me, dear colleagues and colleagues, even you, I am sure none of you will ever get her because we are contagious because we are infected with politics and because we may have said something wrong here at some point. Yes, but it is much more likely that such a job and well-paid in state institutions will be obtained by someone from the left-hand political hemisphere. And here is a significantly higher and higher probability. But let's just drop it. Now maybe it's not a topic. The topic is, perhaps, to return to this state property management They say, we say 11 billion we have state property managed by the Slovenian State Holding. [[…]] Now I don't hope to speculate on what the market value is, but let's say that if you or if the country has 11 billion and if the country binds this 11 billion for one business year, for 12 months on NLB, it gets about 1% interest, that's 110 million. That's 110 million. And look at the fraction, this same figure of 110 million appears in the 2016 budget in the chapter on non-tax revenue, the sub-chapter of revenue from participation in profits and dividends and revenue surpluses over expenditure. I don't know that exactly about these surpluses, dividend, I understand that, that's 110 million. So, simplistically, we have 11 billion on one side, that's pretty much something. On the other hand, we have 110 million in the budget, that is exactly 1%. Also: In the case of the Insurance Company Triglav ownership structure – a good 34% of the ZPIZ and 28% of the SDH, they are both in 100% state ownership. So 62% of the Triglav Insurance Company has a state. And this country, who it is, we are citizens. But can all citizens decide who gets a job at Triglav Insurance? They can't. Who decides? Politics, politics decides that. Someone said earlier, "Yes, this is now this new SDH control council, and this has not been a political recruitment." Any recruitment that the Government employs, if left or right, is political recruitment, because the Government is an eminent political body. And it is perfectly normal for a government of Mira Cerar or anyone who will certainly not appoint an eminent member of New Slovenia in SDH and vice versa, let us be honest, let us be honest. Because if Nova Slovenija were in the government and were to recruit someone from the opposition, I don't know anyone else, surely our members would demand the president's head if I put it so harshly. This is how things work and not now work out that we just don't understand it. That's how things work. Make enough numbers. I was lucky, I'm really honest to say that I was lucky to have been at the presentation of Dr. Mir Cerar's book entitled Memory in Crisis, I think it was 2013 and the book was written in 2010. It is thinking about the mental, emotional, and spiritual challenges of a modern man. I recommend, a very good book, I have it, it's not expensive. I quote the author: "When society finds itself in decadence, in a slow but persistent decomposition, which appears mainly in a continuous vote after the increase in material wealth and psychophysical consumption and in extreme softness and egoism, then there are various financial, capital, employment, payroll and other similar injections just a step into a further, even greater crisis." This is what Dr. Miroslav Cerar wrote in the book Memory in Crisis. And where are we today? The book was created in 2010. Where are we today? What about our humanity and our honor today, our heart - rearing and character - grinding, our spiritual growth and awareness - raising? We are aware, colleagues and colleagues, that the true power of a country is not only political power or economic power but moral. And what else is written in this book, and I actually like it best: "Are we aware that a man stands on ethics and falls?" And I add, so much the more ethical politics stands and falls, and this concludes me now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get ready for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, there is a question here that has already been raised several times, as well as a few arguments on how to get the policy out of the economy. And, in principle, we all agree with that, but how should politics be removed from the economy? On the one hand, we have a political government, we have a political national assembly, we have a political state council, and on the other hand, we have state ownership, of course, and the government or the individual ministry is concerned about this state property. And here's a blinding of sand to the eyes that if we have state property, it's possible to get politics out of, I'm not going to say day-to-day leadership, I'm going to say strategic decision-making. If we have SDH, we have DUTB, both companies are in 100 percent ownership, and then who else will take care of it if it isn't the government? And after all, the congregation is the government. And the government is political. And that's why sand is in the eyes when it's said that politics needs to be removed from the economy or from state-owned companies. However, politicians and ministers and secretaries of state and Members do not affect any private company. The private company acts in a completely transparent manner, as it does in the interest of the private owner. And here, of course, is the curse on how to get politics out of business, etc., look, perfect sand in the eyes. As long as we have national property, of course, the government, the congregation, or anyone who has already made decisions will have to make decisions. And, of course, we can agree with that, only then should state ownership be reduced. Then it is necessary to privatise, then it is necessary to sell state banks, state insurance companies, state companies, etc. And then, of course, those who talk about how to get the policy out of the economy and from SDH and DUTB also have to say, of course, how to, and say, "Look, gentlemen, we will sell DUTB to private capital or SDH to private capital or we will have a private administrator of DUTB and this private manager will manage state assets." And then, in fact, there will be less policy impact on the economy. Probably less. Perhaps if a private manager comes, perhaps if he comes from abroad, he will have less influence or he will not be able to influence himself. But in this case, I'll tell you what's gonna happen. Of course, not that there will be no political influence, but there will be no network influence. And if it does not allow the influence of the networks, then the issue in this country will immediately arise, the issue of high wages. In fact, there are many people on high wages who want to become something in this country or who want to throw them out of the country. Every month or every two months or every three months, depending on the order and the money to be used for it, the media will broadcast various broadcasts in the most viewed terms – about the high salaries of individual foreigners, locals, anyone else, in short, those that actually need to be removed, who have to leave this job. So swearing about it I think we can't lie to ourselves. [[…]] And those who talk about how to get the policy out of the economy – let's imagine who will run these companies instead, if the country owns it. And of course, what's worse is that it comes from the largest coalition party. The opening statement by the representative of the coalition party which had announced the opinion of this coalition party was that the Government or policy should not interfere with society. But, ladies and gentlemen, remember that you have confirmed the SDH supervisory council. On 17 July 2015 at 2.30 p.m. at an extraordinary meeting. And who are you if not politics? And here I have a list of votes, and you're in. And you are the one responsible for confirming this oversight council, whether it is doing good or doing bad things and so on. Just as you are responsible for security in this country and for accepting 123 million for security yesterday or the day before. Whether this is enough or not; you have not accepted any proposal from the opposition and have the responsibility for what you have for the people in SDH. Here, if anyone wants to see how he voted, and most of you have voted in favour. So not vote in favour of this supervisory council on the one hand, but say, "You know what, the government or policy should not interfere with this." Here, first of all, let us pour ourselves some pure wine and, of course, it is necessary to act on this pure wine. The second point, of course, here is important if we are talking about who is acting on the Government or on the government of Mira Cerar, is to look at his statement before the elections, 21 June 2014 – STA – when it is true, I will quote, say that they go to the elections on their own, so to speak, the modern centre Party, quote: "as we have created, without bots from the background and lobby." Next, "We're not shutting anyone out. After the elections, we are open to cooperation with everyone." Probably to cooperate with both the botts and the lobby and so on and so forth. You can take a look at that, STA. And, of course, the question now arises, do not these words of Mr Mir Cerar really apply to cooperation with everyone, and of course it depends, of course, on which lobby and which botts from behind want to cooperate with the client of Mir Cerar? Probably a few of them. That is, of course, why it is a question of who will rule and so on. It is my opinion, personally, to say it here: yes, the Government as owner and as a congregation must actually take care of control in accordance with its powers, and it must also be concerned if you want to, for the staff, but, firstly, in a transparent way and secondly, in such a way that there will be no trace of any corruption issues in the broader sense that what is actually happening today will not happen. And that we will have personnel who will disregard the opinions of these lobbying. But things are actually perfectly clear here, and I think that policy is responsible for what is happening today, and this is the policy of Mira Cerar. And of course, on the other hand, it is also a question of why it actually happened that maybe people who were paid well and so on and worked, for example, in the Banks Claims Management Society, are those who are undesirable. Of course, they've done something under the terms of disputed transactions. Dispute transactions where certain former owners disagreed with these transactions. This is why, of course, they did all the actions, legal and so on and so on, and of course they did it again, and I'll say, these lobbyists probably ordered some extra shows to talk about salaries. And of course this is where the media stamp went and so on and so on and so on, in short, it was a pay speech. You could watch this in the media all the time. Of course, the question now arises, whether all of these actually reached a wall where, of course, these interests, their interests, their former owners, future owners and so on, were no longer in line with the functioning of the Bank's Claims Management Company, because they simply did not have an impact on this structure, they did not, of course, have a greater impact on international people, in short on foreigners, that they could influence them. And, of course, here is another question and he has already spoken about it on the committee that dealt with this, in short, with the impact of the informal network on the DUTB and SDH. At that time, the Secretary of State said that there were these informal networks, he also said that they were fighting these informal networks on the DUTB and so on. But something else is true, and here is the question why this has happened now and why this change has taken place. We don't know these causes today. At least they are unclear to me, especially because, of course, the incomes of individuals are discussed; those individuals who were resolved on Friday and on Thursday the Minister of Finance sent a letter to the DUTB to explain certain matters concerning these salaries. I just don't buy it, even if it happens again today, I don't buy it, and I think it's about some other stuff here, of course. One of the things is that one of the banks, I think the Factor Bank, joined the DUTB with a much greater loss and capital inadequacy than it had in the past, and it also actually happened that the recapitalisation for this bank was too small, and, of course, now we need to make this connection together. Secondly, the policy itself, and in particular the people who carried out – here I think of foreigners – this policy in the DUTB, did so in accordance with the law, that 10% of the assets of the DUTB should be sold in one year, which, of course, affected the deficit, and of course, this was no longer in line with the state policy, and the Ministry of Finance or the Government had to cut in here also, because eventually it also proved to be in the new law. I think that what Mr Dobovšek says is true too, colleague Dobovšek, that financial flows must be monitored urgently and that the Government is responsible in this regard. If not otherwise, with regard to state-owned enterprises, the Government is responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, get ready, Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. I've been listening to this debate for some time now, and the shortest conclusion could be, at Šubičev, nothing new. We have two banks of the river, we have two forms, in the traditional language we would say, right. One is sitting here, the other is sitting there. We have the same metaphors, we have the same stories, and in the language of the probability account, we have the expected events. We have an attack, a legal, legitimate part of the opposition that needs to work out its minutes, on the other hand, we have some formal legal instruction by the Secretary of State, from the position of the largest party to the coalition. I promised yesterday that I wouldn't deal with SMC, whatever it's called, so let the electorate handle it. Mr. Shircelj, who now went out, somehow replied to me in a debate that we had yesterday, citing: "We do not believe you, they came, they evaluated how unbalanced they were, the non-creditability of Slovenian politics, the Bank of Slovenia, the administrations of the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Bank of Maribor. That's when it happened, then we got the Bank Claims Management Company, all this story that we're kind of listening to today." If I still have to use some relatively cheap metaphors; as far as I know, in the dimensional space in which we live, the coin has two sides. Of course, the SDS speaks only of one side, and this whole story was created by the breaking of the LDS, by overheating the economy 2004-2008 with the Janša government and somehow thereafter. All of this, these hunters, these connections that my colleague Bojan Dobovšek was talking about, they're not new, and basically they don't surprise me. If I were a little populism, would you say the name Miro Cerar? Miro Cerar is the name of a policy that we have been looking at in this society and country for quite some time, with a slightly different haircut. We don't ask ourselves any real questions here. You're in the United Left, but as a national assembly as a whole, we don't ask ourselves why the law has been so written or so written, as it is, why somehow the executive power or coalition can quite easily say, "her, we can't get involved here, politics must go away from the economy." No, ladies and gentlemen, we need economic policy. Even countries that are most privatized when the crisis is, where do directors fly, who saves them? A good month ago, I was in a regulated country, talking to Mrs State Secretary, who was in the position of Mr Dragonja, and Mr Logar was with me. We talked in Norway about state ownership, it is expressed in financial aggregates, much more than we do, and of course the state and policy are involved in the economy, but how does it get involved in the economy? We've been talking about how they frame. At some point, I was left alone by the entire delegation and I said, "Well, wait, you won't buy me, you won't tell me you don't have political influences either." The lady laughed at me and said, "Yes, of course we do, but we have very clear criteria as to who can perform what functions." Whether they are left, right, I don't know how central; if I say in the human language, "shalabajzers", some compromised persons don't put themselves in these positions, but they give people who are actually needed at some point in time to operate in certain such institutions or specifically in individual companies in a majority or partial state property. Then she said, "You know, there were Americans in front of us 14 days ago, and they said to me, "Do you really stick to what you sign and write?" This is how some regulated companies go about corporate governance as you call it, and they do not have some serious problems with state property and their business somehow works. Of course, I know someone will say, "they have oil, we don't have oil" – even if we had oil, in a way that was restructured, our economy privatised, we would probably run it. We actually had privatisation, but we had privatisation in the way of dividing the spoils, and now somehow we have the consequences of it. Fragmentation of prey, plus negative manning. When I was a doctorate in information policy, he became the director of Telekoma's agricultural accelerator. The director of our greatest logistics became a former intelligence officer, perhaps even having little connection. Some politicians who got tired of being politicians put him in some kind of administration, and he was smart. And here are the substantive backgrounds of all of this, which we are now somehow trying to talk about here. There will come people who have animal names or after something else, structures will somehow intertwine. We have – although I must say that this word "systemically" is a little bit of animosity, even when Luke used it earlier, because they love it very much in coalitions and executive authorities; they say, "her, that is a systemic challenge, a systemic problem" and so on – we have taken these institutions as a legislative body in a way that this legislation improves so that these practices will no longer take place. Mr Dragonja also promised a consultative body somewhere in April, which will also deal with this – a wider representation of interests in the supervisory councils and so on. And somehow this did not happen – and not that I blame you, Mr Dragonja, perhaps someone else stopped it, as someone else did, let's say that the legislation on association, which somehow, as I was aware yesterday, is half asleep and some gentleman who is supposed to be dealing with it, is not doing as much as necessary. One fact, of course, is that the task of the two bodies that we are talking about today as long as we live in capitalism as we live in a growing society is to make these companies profit, so that, according to the household profit, everyone has something. I would be very happy, even though I am in opposition, if so-called bad bank were to stop calling a bad bank, it would be called by its original name, because, as we are very much taught by Ambassador Shircelj, it is not actually a bank. I would be even more pleased if this company were to be named on behalf of a slightly different company, if at least the restructuring was still in place, perhaps the DPTB or the DUPTB. It's not something he does too much with it. Today's panellists somehow say nothing about the work of some of the previous figures who were at SDH, and they will now remain employed there. As if they were some very good figures, although New Bank of Maribor was sold during their work, the story with Helios took place at a price and could still continue. Frankly, I am surprised if all of this is true, what the proponents very plastic, rhetorically skillfully described – and unfortunately, most of this, apparently, is true – why did they go to Spain with the coalition and actually in SDH somehow clearly by silent agreement delegate a lady from their chastity? You know, if I have something full of adult life, I have a suitcase full of these double morals, but obviously Slovenian politics is not capable of this plant, it is not able to pull itself by the ears and somehow get out of this dual morality. From all that's been said, is there a lady who's progressing rapidly through the SDS story and is now in, uh, she'll probably back out? [[…]] No, I don't think so. Me, if all this is true, I wouldn't be able to work with a team like that. Yes, my colleague Lisec tells me to communicate with the coalition. You know, it's a story, it's a micellium that has at least 15 followers in this society and you've created. I didn't. Well, the way SMC was framed together, whose spin is, up, down, basically, I don't care, because I have something smarter to devote to, let's say, better legislation, especially this legislation that we're working on. We also have some other parties in this coalition who are making a statement. It actually hurts me in this House, too, that there is no basic logic. A party goes there as a brother and literally makes a statement; if their statement is to be kept, we should support what we are actually proposing in the United Left and, of course, at some meetings of the committees, they are quite frank. If we don't cut through these knots of these kinds of purchases, these kinds of personnel, if we don't let certain lobbyists know that they won't drive us around unless we change the politics of this national council so that this policy doesn't lead me. For example, I've been very disturbed by the boards lately, it's a very common word. [[…]] But when I want to ask for some more serious information – for example, we have been trying in the United Left for quite some time to find out how many people are employed at the Banks Claims Management Company – it is already some kind of fama to get even that kind of information. In short, it's some sort of colloquial thing that hasn't happened since yesterday. It was an arrangement written for some purpose, written by the then coalition, taken over by another coalition, carried out by a third coalition. You know, let's get this story -- let's get it all privatized, the aliens will come, and everything's great -- we've seen very well in the story of Helios, how great it is. And foreigners are often very adaptable. This is also seen in the case of banks that are in foreign ownership or co-ownership in Slovenia. These banks, of course, are a little bit adaptable to the market situation, and of course, why would they be so much more favourable or cheaper to the end-user than in some home countries if such conditions apply in this society, and why shouldn't our 'crazed people', as we say in Styria, pick up more pennies if possible? So don't give me any illusions, don't sell me here now. Foreigners also adapt to certain corporate structures or "non-structures" and so on, ruling in some societies, of course, arising from their – legal, legitimate, within the normative environment of some companies – interests to maximize their profits. And so instead of these simple solutions of the kind of "let's get privatized, let's give it," it's about time we start thinking a little bit about what some societies are doing in the 21st century, because I'm a little bored to have to do it again. I am slowly getting the feeling that this Parliament is like a mill in which very few people hear. I would really like this to be some serious debate, but in fact usually – here I also have to agree with the other side of the opposition, although we are on ideologically different shores – the opposition's debates always shake hands in some such terms that people can't or can't afford it because it's too early in the morning. We've been reported to this debate, how many of us are there? 70 formally here, now a little more of us are here, not one third of us, I'll say. I pushed my pubes home, we were the percentage most because I saw; let's get ready for something more serious, serious substantive, and I'll say, I'm a little bit exhausted from these nondebates. Well, the only positive feature of this debate was that the New Slovenia gentleman told me that I would probably have a job when I got out here, but after all we're making a fool of ourselves. These kind of networks, which Bojan described beautifully, work their way forward, people turn off the TV, you could at least turn off the light, after all, we're all in the same river. One right is on a more right bank, the other right is on a slightly different right bank. We are currently some lonely island, and if this takes too long you know, climate change is happening and Slovenian policy is still very bad climate change and the drought will be increasing and we will unfortunately become deserts, and this worries me very much. [[…]] Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Let Mr. Ivan Škodnik prepare. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u34	After Mr Franz Duck's performance, it is always necessary to take a few moments for a person to fall back into the established tracks, but he must be acknowledged that when he speaks, at least we do not get bored and listen. Yes, I am sure that this should not be the typical coalition, opposition debate put by the coalition there in terms that are uninteresting for most of the coalition, or even more, do not try to make some serious recommendations with the opposition, but always, as per the current tape, all the recommendations vote that we are talking about – well, we have a debate circle, which is unfortunately without serious and some concrete conclusions. Although this debate that we have opened here today, which we are talking about, is extremely important; it is the billions of our common assets. It's billions of taxpayers' money. I haven't been in Parliament for a long time, somewhere since the end of 2011, but I always feel the same way; when it comes to irrelevant things, for a few cents, this Parliament is ready to tear itself to pieces. In this House, 90 Members are ready to sit and debate for hours and hours. But when it comes to billions, it seems to be some imaginary thing, which is, for Friday afternoon, when we're all tired all week long. And this should also be in the interest of the position to be seriously discussed in these matters. I will make one introduction and then I would like to ask the coalition a very simple question, which I hope the coalition Members will also simply answer. However, this Parliament and this debate are intended for our discussion; not only that everyone reads the written speeches and then goes home, but that the debate will relive and the debate will begin. I would say that in the case of DUTB and SDH, it is a typical Slovenian story. It's about money, and when it comes to money, there's no mercy. And these two institutions have been kidnapped by uncles from behind, networks or lobbying. These are three different names, I don't care who you use. It is also obvious to politicians that we always talk about uncles from the background, about lobbying and networks, but we do not specifically say what they are doing. I'll try to define it very clearly, with names and surnames. I think that the key Slovenian institutions that manage money are managed by gentlemen with money and influence. The question is, where did these gentlemen get the money and where they got the influence? These networks are managed by uncles from former intelligence services or former SDV, the State Security Service, who have acquired very good connections in their time, many useful information that can now serve them to achieve a number of objectives. Well, if we were talking about specific names, we would certainly be in this circle with Mr Zemlaric and Mr Isilovich. Then you have another circle of people who are slightly younger boys, but have built their positions and influence in state-owned companies, in relatively safe and well-situated state-owned companies, but have extremely good connections with journalists and can achieve many things. Mr. Jamnik would certainly be on trial in this round. And these people, of course, want to achieve their influence in a variety of ways, in order to achieve their own interest in a variety of ways. And they have one chance at that. You know, in Slovenia today it's relatively easy to kill Tonin media or kill anyone else. People who have money, people who have good connections with journalists, will easily make you some kind of media design that will destroy you at some point in time. And a similar "blitzkrieg" action, or a special impact, also occurred in the case of DUTB and SDH. Boys and girls, uncles and aunts from behind launched a great story about wages. You know the Slovenians are the most vulnerable to pay. If anything, they're on pay. Everything else is pretty insignificant, but on the pay side, someone has a high salary, but it's a key matter. But I forgot to tell the other side that paying for this DUMB is a completely irrelevant thing, because these gentlemen can, by some decision, win millions for countries or lose millions and pay them, and it's not even essential. Answer me, the well-respected coalition that defends the current situation, how could it be that foreigners, not domestic managers, who had the same high wages, flew away because of their salary? How is that possible? How would you answer that question? So the local managers, who were also responsible for the current situation, kept the situation, and the foreigners left. I cannot explain it differently than: those who did not play according to the wishes of Slovenian networks were discredited and suspended and were set up by boys and girls who would play in line with the expectations of these networks that I had previously talked about. Very simple and simple. I don't protect strangers at all costs, but I'm sure something stinks here. And very simple questions need to be answered with very simple answers. In the case of DUTB and SDH, however, they were confused with all possible and impossible arguments, but no one was drinking water. And from all of this it is not possible to make a different conclusion than it is to fight for billions and this should also be this National Assembly and also your coalition to prevent and not defend at all costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I welcome the representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! First of all, I will stop where Mr Trček mentioned oil. We don't have any oil. I'll say we have wood, and we'll start talking about wood – what we're going to do with wood, what we're going to do with wood – next week on Monday. I hope Comrade Duck here to exchange some more information and talk about this subject. When I've been thinking these days about what I'm going to be, where I'm going to get involved in this recruitment in state societies, it's not my area, but first I might have answered Mr Tonin for a little while. [[…]] You know, foreigners were either trying to help or they were looking for them, because sometimes they were saying that foreigners were better than ours. [[…]] But then what happened? It was found that these people loved themselves better and were more about personal gain, which was clearly seen at the time, rather than doing something good for Slovenia. That's where I'd start. In 2014, a crucial period was adopted for the management of state property, a crucial year, as a new Act on Slovenian State Holding was adopted, which allowed the transformation of the Slovenian Compensation Company into the Slovenian State Holding Company and thus brought the administration of state property under one roof. These tasks he has, I'm gonna freshen up a little bit, SDH. It must be actively changing and monitoring the performance of individual companies. The SDH vision is the creation of the value of capital investments for the owner. We know that she owns the country, and it is clear that that government, as Mr Horvat said before, certainly doesn't care how some company, how some property, what happens to this property, which is owned by a country. Surely the government is somehow involved in this, but in some way, not by directly involving itself, engaging in the exchange and operation of these supervisory services themselves. The main challenges of SDH in the future are to improve the current profitability of businesses. As far as this last shot is concerned, I think the new SDH administration is good. I'll back up a little later. However, the fact is that the owner always has the opportunity to replace the administration, to replace the supervisors, etc., if it is found that they are not doing well. The SDH Supervisory Board appointed a new SDH administration in accordance with the SDH Act and the Company Act. The meeting was held on 26 October 2015 at 7 p.m. That's what they say. Some people were wrong about it being a night meeting. But you ask yourself, how many times do we Members of the Assembly of the State have a night meeting, and many times are in vain, in vain? So I think sometimes it's even good to get rid of something quickly, and I hope these things go well. The Council appointed Mr Mark Jazbec as President of the Management Board and two members of the Management Board on a regular basis. After the urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was convened, I reviewed the magnetogram a little, because I am not a member of this committee. This one was 12. 11. 2015, in fact, I found nothing so controversial about this; they were all present, those who must have held the meeting normally, just as our meetings here are taking place. And of course, if it weren't for the President of the National Assembly or the Deputy, the meeting would be a little weird, but I agree. But that was all right. Also, the anti-corruption commission has in fact found nothing to be wrong, so I'm here. [[...]] But I'd like to go back a little bit to the past, to mistakes in the past by the governments that were before. Even in banks things weren't right at times, even in Yugoslavia. I remember, I think 1989 was, Markovic's year, which was then kind of convenient for everyone, but in 1988 I know that I finished building the house and I rented some credit that I ended things. I'll tell you, then I paid off this loan more, the bigger the principal. So then I borrowed the money and paid it off to get rid of that loan. But a few years ahead of me, four years or so, some of them built houses full of credit and then paid off all their debts with change. So things seem to have been happening in banking in the past, and today, of course, here of course, this government is trying to sort things out, but it's not going as fast as some would like. [[…]] But I would mention here, of course, that all of you have somehow touched the bank holes; I would say that this bank hole was, of course, influenced by the disputed loans, which also go back to 2004-2008. [[…]] This time, there were a lot of loans that were being extended later, but we know that credits should not be extended. Real bankers would not do that, but they should do new contracts, assess new risks and demand additional insurance. But of course it didn't happen, and that's how the bank hole happened, that's just one thing, and a lot of things are still unresolved. Of course, now we're all smart, I mean opposition here, but of course you're smart because you're experienced, you actually speak here from your own experience. We don't know these things, because we're actually new here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u37	Replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mag. Tonin, I'm sorry, you don't have time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u39	It's always time for a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u40	No, the replica is counted in common.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u41	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u42	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u43	Dear President, thank you for your words, nice greeting to fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today, I would also like to turn the debate in the direction of the lobby, which in this case, of course, has also played a decisive role. You're all talking about some lobbying; in this story, I would recognize lobbying and connections between the media and between individuals if I were to express myself more figuratively, which are shaking their pants today. Why are their pants shaking? Because, in fact, in this overheated atmosphere and in essence, the legitimate requirements for dealing with this subject, I think it is, but I think this is also a diversion of attention this time and, in particular, I would like to reiterate, a loss of our precious time for irrelevant matters. After numerous calls for the coalition and the government to do something to establish corporate governance in the management of the bad bank and SDH, however, the government and the coalition have experienced unjustified criticism. It is right that in this debate we pour ourselves pure wine and also reveal the background and links of lobbying with the media, which in this case acted in harmony with the management of companies and lobbying, which, when appointed by the management of the bad bank and SDH, feel threatened and, as I said earlier, their pants shake. And why did they react like that? It is very transparent that as soon as a decision on the appointment of a new administration came forward, even the national media house received information from the bank about credit maps, which are sometimes confidential in nature and even did not receive information from the National Assembly's investigative committee. What does that mean? This was clearly the case with the media and probably Mr Medje, because, in fact, someone from the Ljubljana Bank provided this information to journalists who came up with data that are of a top-secret nature. The instigators of today's session ignore the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the case of SDH, has very limited opportunities in the staffing of the administration as well as the authorities designated by the SDH administration. So I cannot accept the advance disqualifications of the SDH administration and the poor bank by policy and some lobbying circles. As I mentioned earlier, the indicators are so strong that they are coordinated action between the lobby directors who feel threatened and who try to maintain their chairs in this way. Today's coup against certain members of the board of the bad bank and SDH reminds me of the lustration. Worse still, people are condemned in advance because they have friends, perhaps former associates, and because they acted in harmony with the profession and doctrine that was then in force. Mr Jazbec's actions and Mr Simoneti's actions should be assessed in the light of the situation in which they performed responsible functions in the bank. In the event that it is found that they have violated legislation or then the applicable standards in their work, I will be the first to request, through the Supervisory Board, that, of course, appropriate procedures be initiated in accordance with corporate governance. I am even more concerned with the fact that the applicant ignores the appointment of the SDH administration, which has its basis in the SDH-1 Act and the SDH Statute, which provides in the transitional and final provisions that the administration of the Court and Mr Pirc and Mr Matej Runjak, upon the adoption of the Statute, shall continue its mandate as an administration until the appointment of a new administration. In this case, what did the Governing Council do wrong? Much more should be given attention in this debate to the content of SDH's activities in the past. I hope that corporate governance in state investment companies has been very poor in recent years. Only by implementing the SDH-1 Act did the government of Mir Cerar create the conditions for managing SDH as well as companies directly or indirectly owned by the State. The re-designation of the SDH Supervisory Board was conducted without complications, with many discussions. Therefore, we should let this oversight council do its work, prove its expertise, and also its independence. Instead, we attacked the supervisors immediately in the first step of appointing the SDH administration, not because of procedures and work, but because of names. I can honestly say that it would be very nice in this country if this country's biggest problem was Mr Matthew Narat, as the applicants are trying to show. A much larger problem is corporate governance of companies and state capital investments. In these companies, we meet the demands of supervisory councils and management. Unfortunately, today it shows that management has now been gathering control councils of societies for itself, and lobbying and octopuses are being created that intertwine into all our seasons of society. In doing so, the administration has even boasted of a high level of corporate governance. However, this successful corporate governance has proved by means of adopted acts, reports, not by content, the results of the management of companies with the capital investment of the country. The worst part is that state-owned management is increasingly engaged in lobbying, communication with the media, and conducting surveys on its visibility in order to maintain its positions rather than its business. And it's not the management who wants to replace the SDH organs. It's about people who don't know them and can threaten their positions. For all of this, I believe that there is no need to adopt conclusions to add new tasks to the Government in these turbulent times. The institutions responsible for this should carry out their tasks: from the KPK, the police and the judiciary. I therefore reiterate that today's debate and the call for a meeting is unnecessary. We leave the team under the leadership of Mr Jazbec time to do his job, and I think the team is the right thing to believe that we can essentially create conditions for corporate governance in all state-owned companies in a manner that is decent under some normal corporate governance laws. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u45	Yes, the last two speakers just want to give a brief answer, or somehow I want to try to listen to what we are saying in this debate, and so on, that we can somehow work with the coalition in terms of listening. For also in this meeting we did not define anywhere that the exchange itself was illegal, Mr Ranc. And once again, I can't trust people who are supposed to be responsible for a bank hole in the last 15 years; it's like trusting a fox to babysit your chickens, but you know that she's taken the chickens out of the henhouse in the past few years. It's the same way. Tell me again, a respected coalition, not five, just three, three reasons that mark the new SDH administration as a business excellence. Are these people qualified? And I don't need to be trusted, but look, before that, there was a POP TV journalist, Mr. Milenkovic, look at the reports, and you'll see how Hotels Bernardin has been operating in the last three years since the new SDH CEO was there. I want us to listen to each other. We didn't want to talk about what was illegally done with the appointment itself. The problem is, who's in charge? That's why I don't have any confidence in these people either. You've also talked about better corporate governance. This is what we all want, the primary task of SDH is to continue the privatisation process, including Telekom, who lost its value, remember, also because of your party's acquisition of political points in the pre-election campaign in the summer months – for about 50 million euros, some financial cycles have been assessed. With regard to foreigners, as mentioned above, and DUTB. I do not want to go back to this debate of mistrust with the foreigners we are raising in this country. But look, networks and lobbying in this country are present and I believe, SMC, everyone sitting here has absolutely nothing to do with these people. You have absolutely nothing to do with these people. No, I'm hoping to say that everyone who's here has nothing to do with these people. But you're exhausted and you don't even know it. But these people are funding themselves and are following the cash flow forward for all 25 years of the independent state. And one day it will have to be done. And the opportunity for this is, of course, to complete the privatisation process, and therefore the foreigners, Sweden in DUTB, were a very good thing, because to these networks and lobbyings, Slovenia's traditional domestic policies of managing capital investments were not possessed. They didn't fall for it. But if you think otherwise, please, if we start talking to cases. In Novi Slovenije we highlighted three cases, and at that time we also had a meeting. If you continue to trust these people, who have been in Slovenian politics for the past 25 years, then do not promise better times for the Slovenian economy. And I just want you, the SMC, as the largest government party, to follow particularly good corporate governance, but not with these people who have managed state assets for the past 25 years, but with new ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! Politically, we have been listening to this since 1990, and it is, in fact, a quiet one, at least, if not every government's public desire for political recruitment. I hope that in the coming years we will come to the end of this political recruitment, and for that there can be only one way: a final, 100% privatisation. But obviously there is another process under way under this government – defending national interest with all four. And it's not that controversial, nor is it political, if we ask ourselves, who, where, and in what way. I recall that 2004-2008 mandate, where many forget that we have also accepted the position at the time, I think that a partnership for development has been called, and we, as a ruling coalition, have committed ourselves to working with the opposition in addition to the legislative proposals in this National Assembly in certain personnel matters. And I myself, as a professional associate at that time, recall the various meetings of our members of the then coalition with representatives of the opposition, and I must say that I thought that mandate was a good parable and a way forward, but then the elections of 2008 came, and that trust suddenly became some kind of a pasty story. I remember, at least in the media in those days, how the SDS – of course also in cooperation with New Slovenia and the People's Party and Desus, especially the SDS – carried out by the personnel tsunami. The media were very excited after each government meeting, when the point of human and administrative affairs was the end of the mandate of a state institution, a state institution, an institution, and a replacement. And the other day, the media articles: human tsunamis, SDS re-captures, they frame, in short, they don't, and this story dragged the whole mandate. What's going on in this term? Nothing. The media's quiet. Magnetograms of government meetings are disappearing or the government has decided not to feed them anymore. And that under this government that came into power, especially the ruling party, with a paradigm of transparency. This transparency is shown by the suspension of the meeting magnetograms. We are interested in transparency, which personally reminds me of some times in North Korea, Belarus and someone like Venezuela, rather than some democratic countries in the heart of Europe, as we can still say. And what's going on in the background? In the area of banks, financial organisations, economies, as well as justice, there are changings of the same people, mostly from 1990 to 1990, or from the previous system, as has been said, their subordinates, who are also coming to the fore, and in the foreground the beautiful, ethical and moral stances of the President of the Government, Mr Mir Cerar, with their assistants, who, if necessary, want to change the constitution, change the laws, change across the National Assembly, the regulations, just so that these pillars in the economy and banking and the financial sector, which have brought this government and also the financial "pumps" from the background, are still alive. So that you don't say that I'm saying something; it's a good year, and it's a good year and a half, soon after we've had national elections and let me at least remind SMC Members of Parliament how brave they have stood for their presidents, then the party's presidents, and now the government presidents. July 9, 2014, Miro Cerar: "Now you can realize that there are no capital, interest, botrical or any background behind us." November 20, 2015, a completely different story. You know, that paradigm: one is words, the other is actions, and here they come out. More! Mr Cerar pointed out that the political space cannot be occupied by only one party and it will be necessary to connect after the elections. And the SMC has linked to those hard cores in the economy and banking, whose captives we are citizens and citizens for the past 25 years, and they have stories from the previous system. Furthermore, on 21 June 2013, a statement via the State, presentation of the SMC programme. Their fundamental values are: the rule of law, the responsibility of everyone in society, human dignity, innovation and sustainable development. They predict that they are bringing about changes — for the worse, they have forgotten to say, of course. Nevertheless, Mr Cerar must have continued the elections more decisively. Although they decided to go to the elections on their own, as they were created, without botts from the background and lobby — especially mentioned, without botts from the background and lobby — they do not exclude anyone. After the elections, they're open to cooperating with everyone. And it's happening the other way around. The opposition, according to your own words, does not sniff out "two percent", but you support the botts from the background and the lobby. One word, another act. In a public statement under the Convention, Cerar stressed that new, unburdened people would be brought into politics, and we listen: Isilovich, Zemlarič, this younger generation, if we look at the résumés of the Secretary of State and the Minister – unburdened people. I got a couple of text messages today to ask Mr Draganjo too, and I'm going to hold off on how the story with Lek, the crimson cellulose, and so on. Unburdened people, people with a lot of expertise and consciousness. And the Secretary of State said, "Mr. Jazbec has come into office because of his expertise, integrity, business results and skills." Now we have been asking him for some time now that we are interested in where this expertise is, except in the NLB, where is this integrity, which is proven in the opposite direction, what were the business results of Mr Jazbec in NLB, and on the basis of these results, what his competence is. There's no answer. Then the electoral programme was published on their website on Friday; one of the main priorities is economic breakthroughs. That's an interesting thing. Then they say they are for privatisation, but it must be controlled and must not cover all state-owned enterprises entirely. State privatisation or controlled, and that's exactly what's going on. Well, for once, Mr. Cerar kept his word. And for the conclusion of Mr Cerar's statements before the elections, 3. Seven. 2014; STA, SMC programme on the integrity of public function holders. "The holder of a public function should withdraw as soon as there is a significant compromise on his personal integrity or when he violates basic ethical standards. The standard for the withdrawal of public function holders must therefore be stricter than a violation of the law and the Constitution. We are also advocating the establishment of an institution for the discharge of officials or so-called recall." And what do you do? Send one president of the opposition party to prison, break the constitution, whistle on ethics and morality, new standards, and continue to pursue the politics of communication, knowledge and old faces. And you justify this in the following way, if anything is wrong, the former are guilty, if anything is wrong, the congregation is to blame, the supervisory council, the administration, we are the only ones who are clean. And, as my colleague Vrtovac said earlier, I truly believe and hope that SMC Members are still committed to ethics and morality, to new standards, although after their votes in the National Assembly I am a little losing hope in this ethics and morality, but the backgrounds that lead you to the next elections are still the same. I hope that you are coalition Members, both SMC and SD and Desus, every six months you read this coalition contract of yours, what you wrote down, so that you might remember how far each one of you is from your words and your actions. You wrote down "It will be necessary to ensure more efficient and transparent management of assets transferred to a bad bank for the benefit of the state budget and citizens." When we read your laws – a completely different story. Moreover, you write: "The coalition partners will restore confidence in the institutions of supervisory functions and public authorities in the financial sector." Back then, the same people who have such or different, very long and very bad experience in corporate governance. One of the points: Bank hole investigations and definition of liability. And I will read it to you, and you may come to your senses at some point before the end of your early term, certainly fine when you say you were working in accordance with the coalition contract and you are pressing completely different keys. You write: "In order to ensure a return of confidence in financial institutions, supervisory institutions, the institution of the rule of law needs to define responsibility for the resulting bank hole and to demand compensation and liability for members of the administrations and supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks." Look what's going on with my colleague Logar's investigator. The court is helping me not to get any information so that something is not exposed. Who are the most loyal opportunists of this action? Members of the SMC who reject such proposals for conclusions and quietly show that you do not have a good opinion on your coalition contract. You have even a point: Improving the efficiency and transparency of government management: "Government needs to be improved through effective operation and management of the Slovenian State Holding and Bad Bank." I have said several times in this National Assembly that the key, why another so-called Janša government has fallen, is when we started talking about privatisation and about a bad bank. The background was immediately found, which was also mentioned earlier by colleague Tonin, who said, "no, we don't give privatisation and the financial sector". And there were individuals, including in the government and in the National Assembly, who were eager to wait for their five minutes of fame, so that those governments could set up the kajla and then get their government, and now they are nowhere else in the Slovenian system. But you have the effective functioning and management of the Slovenian State Holding and the bad banks according to the principle "if they are ours". But if they are foreigners, political lustration due to "caca" some irregularities due to high wages. I hope that those of you who have ever worked with SMC in the economy, at least ask your friends who operate in the economy, what are the salaries of highly educated managers, not only in Slovenia, but abroad. [[…]] If you think you will get any managers to a state or private company, especially a state-owned company in Slovenia, to work, I don't know, for 2,3 000 euros gross, then I hope you wake up a little, dream from Bolivia, Venezuela and other countries and come back into the European legal order and the system of European corporate governance. Allow me, Vice President, to have a few more sentences outside this SDH and DUTB story. That the coalition continues with its personnel tsunami, they also show stories outside this economic, financial, banking sector. Mr Baričič – a typical example of how ours are being framed is true. He is similarly said by the Minister of Health: professional, integrity, business results, qualified. I hope at least you'll give him up on the pressure of the media, if not the opposition, soon. Example: This week, we had to appoint qualified staff among the four candidates for the European Court of Human Rights. And how have you trained? Someone who's a doctor isn't good. But everyone else is good only for one moment, which is called a political moment, because it's ours. And respectable, so some of the speakers we've heard in the introductions by the SMC, how they feel about transparency, how they are about ethics and morality, and let businesses work, and we look at them a little bit, and so on, there's actually a bad joke. And as I have already said, your policy continues from day to day, when pre-election promises of ethics, morals and new standards are replaced by policies of relationships, acquaintances and old faces, and I really hope that one day someone who will have the courage, in addition to the opposition, to the emperor will, I apologize, set a large mirror for Cerar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u49	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! When we talk about the recruitment problem in the Slovenian State Holding and in the Bank Claims Management Company, it is important to say that they manage assets that are estimated to be worth €16 billion by the projectors. However, it is important to note that this property is not the property of political parties but the property of the people. And if we look at Article 3 of the Constitution, it is very clear that the power of the people in Slovenia is exercised directly by the elections and the MPs and the Members are the ones who are elected by the people to carry out this area, and we also love the President of the Government and we appoint ministers to do this will of the people. And when we look at how we do this I think it is very clear that any statement that goes in the direction that the Government should not interfere with the management of the property of the people is thus contrary to the Constitution or, if you wish, contrary to legislation. [[…]] In fact, the mistake we are making is that it is allowed for political parties to have too much influence on the management of this property. In fact, by constitution and by law political parties must not participate in or influence the management of companies, and this is in fact contrary to the Constitution or legislation. And where does this moment come from when politics begins to interfere? At the time of appointment of representatives to the Supervisory Board, which are those who then, of course, monitor the operations of these companies and who, of course, subsequently also conduct procedures to elect either the President of the Management Board or the Director of the Enterprise. But in Slovenia we have gone even so far that for years and years, and I do not think today, we have the voting rights of state supervisors in companies where the country has its own ownership. And this happened in a way that, in fact, the state-owned agency that monitors acquisitions in companies was deprived of voting rights in Slovenia due to a banal error. And these voting rights haven't been in the country for years. Although we have adopted a new takeover law a month or two ago that allows this anomaly to be eliminated and at least representatives appointed to the supervisory board by the State can vote. But for years and years, we had representatives in the supervisory councils who received good awards, not to vote in the interests of the people, so why did we pay them? This is a serious problem that we have not actually been able to resolve, and it is likely that even if we now ask a question, regardless of whether the takeover law was passed there some month or two ago, whether we have already initiated procedures and asked the agency to return voting rights to the state; this would be very interesting because this is the first thing we have to do. [[…]] The second is, of course, the fact that we do not have a clean procedure to reach people who will be adequately qualified to participate in the management of businesses, either in the supervisory boards, either as either CEOs or directors of the company or other state institutions to which we have an impact. This procedure has not been cleared. Today's process is generally conducted by agreeing at some point or the top of political parties to agree on who will be the representative in a particular supervisory council. And here is the moment when politics interferes with business operations and this is a mistake made by politics in Slovenia since independence. And here, too, politics loses confidence in people, and not only does it lose trust policy, it is also true that people lose the assets that we must manage on their behalf, because we have been chosen to do so. And this process is actually the key to being cleaned up and brought back in such a way that this political mode of recruitment is withdrawn. I therefore propose to the Government that we approach the establishment of an agency as soon as possible to train the management of businesses and other state institutions. This training is crucial that you can even recruit someone for a function. Someone who has not gone through this training cannot run for office as a member of the Supervisory Board or the President of any company. And the same training should apply to us, Members and Members; before you decide to run for the National Assembly, it is also right to go through the procedure of this agency, which will train you to manage the country, how you will manage it with this property that the people trust you with at the moment of your election. Then we can talk about responsible politics, and then we can talk about people knowing who they have chosen, whether they are qualified or not. This is one process that will actually have to be carried out if we are to avoid such facts as we face in this period in asset management. And recently the New Bank of Maribor was sold to speculative capital – Apollo is the one who is actually a representative of speculative capital, but this even set up a d.o.o. society with limited liability, which goes to purchase the New Bank of Maribor. Of course, it wasn't even shopping. It was more, I'd say, a gift than buying. And I am really pleased with the information I have and I hope that it will be carried out to the end so that the European Central Bank will not give consent to this speculative capital to buy the System Bank. In fact, despite all of this, banking legislation prohibits speculative capital from buying a system bank in the same way as it did in Slovenia. Indeed, if anything by the European Central Bank is applied to this information, as I have it, that there will be no agreement, we can say that even the European Central Bank has protected us from these abuses that have taken place in this case. But this is a case that's already been implemented, and I hope he doesn't get the consent of course. Look, we're facing a similar case right now, again with Telekom. We're having trouble getting this company, I'll say, out of a foreign sale process, and what's going on right now? When we prevented this, all of a sudden news, Telekom Telekom now buys Serbia. When you get this information, you're amazed at how some company that we've recently described as unsuspecting, which, if we don't sell it, is actually going to lose on its assets, not do its job, there's going to be information coming out -- buying a Serbian Telecom that's estimated or expected by the Serbian government to get $1.5 billion for it. Do you really have to ask yourself what's going on again, and what do you know in the last period? In fact, it is again about transporting, how to get to Slovenian Telekom in a way to make purchases of Serbian Telekom in cooperation with Telekom Slovenije, and again with the participation of speculative capital represented by Apollo. And this speculative capital of Apollo and Slovenian Telekom is set up again by d.o.o., with which they go to purchase Serbian Telekom. And what will that look like next? Apollo will give some money, shares that Slovenian Telekom has, will be a contribution from the Republic of Slovenia, Apollo will be in charge of the money that he will put into this system, and all of this will then be paid off with dividends that this Telekom is supposed to create. And how much of this will we get as a people if this is paid with dividends? There will be no dividends in the budget, there will be no sales share that was discussed if Telekom sells himself to get into the budget, he will not be. So far, I have not noticed that the finance minister would cut hair and make a tie here in Slovenia, that something is going on that will damage Slovenian property or people's property. And that is why today I am very serious about this procedure, which in fact also shows a picture of how all these things in Slovenia have been happening in a very non-transparent way, and also here is actually some tycoon principle of taking over this property. And finally, I would even hope to say, even to protect all those who have already been characterised in Slovenia as tycoons, that they actually fell for some of the conditions they were given to join in certain purchases without insurance, without insurance, without insurance, and then, of course, they came into line with obligations and all of these stories that we encounter in Slovenia. We have to clean these things up, and we'll have peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u51	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, when we talk about the great billions of state property, and when there is so much distress in the Chamber, and the concern that this extraordinary session is, at all, why it is so long, and if, of course, the opposition Members persist for a long time, if we still have much to say, and because Friday is a respected colleague and colleague, as long as such meetings in the National Assembly make no sense to us, the state as it is will be in the country. [[…]] But you can think what you want, about opposition or about me, now that I'm speaking; it's just a matter of every individual. Look, we're not so young anymore, and when I listened, I really appreciate my neighbor on the right, Mr Ranc, and Mr Ivan Škodnik, I listened to them in detail today. Gentlemen mature, put a lot of things through in life, and if I gave them this to read, what they read today, a year ago, I don't think there's any money to read it. I'm really worried about that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, fellow Member Battelli, if anyone remembers anyone who listened very carefully yesterday, he spoke of some names in the Republic of Slovenia and also said what these gentlemen should no longer touch. And I totally agree with him. I know that Mr. Secretary of State is more than a nuisance this week. Listen, listen, listen, of course, at night he goes home in bad will because he listened to the opposition. Today we're talking, I repeat, about the large amount of money that melts like water when we cook it. And of course, when everyone's in such a hurry at home, if they saw at your bank statements that maybe five euros more had been ripped off, that they didn't know where it was going, I don't think anyone was in this National Assembly, which on Monday morning when the bank opened up, would not have called the bank. But when we talk about state property, when we talk about how we frame ourselves, how we repeat the same faults – of course it is conscious, it is not unconscious – but it is a sad story. That's my personal conviction. I would like to mention just one example, because it has been said many times today that we should trust this team, that we should trust this supervisory council and, of course, that we should trust these people who have once again crawled into these positions with one simple purpose, that this state property, which is neither theirs nor ours, but from all citizens and citizens, has flowed out of these institutions through various channels. As a citizen, this is unacceptable and, of course, disastrous to me. My belief that if I could conclude this meeting today is that economic logic, some moral logic, has left the Republic of Slovenia and that we have been left behind by a peasant mind. Of course, we today have an excuse for the past, for people who work in the present to be responsible for it, but we can be afraid of the future, and what the future will be in the Republic of Slovenia, depending on us sitting in the National Assembly. All week long we fought with opposition Members so that at least one amendment could be heard for the benefit of citizens in 2016 or 2017, and this was not possible. Today, when we talk about responsibility, about money, which is of all, about money that dictates the development of the Republic of Slovenia, which dictates the standard of citizens and citizens in our country and, of course, which dictates our future, we behave irresponsiblely. In short, I would like, and I would really like, whether from the Minister or from you, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, to prevent all of them together these unscrupulous staffing, particularly the staffing that goes to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Dr Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. My colleague Podkoršek gave me a very good starting point with 5 euros. Let me also mention that at least in SMC we write our own speeches, you can see here, also there at the colleague you mentioned earlier. Unless you conclude by yourself, I don't think it would be appropriate to conclude that way in this case. One thing that would still be worth mentioning. So that I can't get rid of the feeling that something that was partly your responsibility, in some way, we'd like to be overwhelmed. Why did I say five euros? I'll start with the graphs that I, you know, have a little heart rate. Here I have loans to the non-bank sector from 2003 to 2014 – growth times 3, say, we are talking, I don't know, from 12 to 35 billion in four years, in four and a half years. Reservations, weakening, neglecting. From here on, the curve is straight, it's in 2009, where it starts to figure out what happened, what happened in the first place. And from here on out, rehabilitation, stabilisation, weakness, reservations. Let's move on. That's a three. Liabilities of Slovenian banks to banks abroad are written here as 4; 4 billion in 2004, 16 billion in 2008. I do not know who is able to endure such growth; such an economy as Slovenia certainly does not, at least not without the wounds they have come. Then – these are data from the Bank of Slovenia that no one will say that there is no source – followed by recovery, a reservation of weakness, a real decline, immediately 2009, we can see how this starts to be resolved, the exposure to abroad is reduced, things are being resolved. Let's move on. The 8th to 2012 cut has increased the volume of bad loans. This is what it says when it began to figure out what had happened, then it went on and said, yeah, these loans, when this started to be explored and deepened, were obviously not as good as they were, obviously bad loans were not just 1.8% after these figures in 2007, but apparently a few more – in 2012 15 and so much. In terms of staffing, we had something in the National Assembly, it is said, regarding the confirmation of SDH members; part of it was Government, then part of the government was DUTB. The only thing I can say is that I hope that we had a slightly happier hand in the DZ and also in the Government this time, that the results will not be the same as they were in the past, that New KBM will not happen, that the New Ljubljanska Bank will not happen, and that the pain for us Primorce – colleague Ferruga will probably agree with this – Intereuropa, Istrabenz, Luka Koper. Because they were great directors if you're going to look at the results, because from a great company you can make a bad one. However, it is a little more difficult to do good than it is to make comparisons with business results. Here it takes analysis to find out more who was actually good, who wasn't. What I'd say here is the last thing. I think that, as far as corporate governance is concerned, these appointments and all, we have taken a step forward. A few light years, in my opinion. Now time will show whether these decisions were right. And those who have been accepted in view of the clear responsibility of these appointments are those who have proposed to the Supervisory Board, who has appointed the administration, it is clear who has managed the changes – here is also a clear responsibility. [[…]] The wrong decisions are also clearly known who will answer, not as in the past, when it is said, maybe politics, maybe networks, maybe lobbying. Here are those responsible for making these exchanges or appointments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Applicant first, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Or a replica, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, a replica? Then I'd have the replica first and then.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u56	Just a moment, if you can sign up again. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u57	I didn't go into the details just like you, but I have to mention it again. I guess I wasn't understanding enough. As a member of the National Assembly, I am disturbed by the fact that you are in charge of personnel and personnel. There's only one case I'm saying you'll understand. I remember your secretary's statement when the director of the UKC was appointed. I thought there was gonna be a statue in front of the UKC that night. Where is the Minister today, where is this newly appointed director, and where is the President of the Supervisory Board? That's what I'm talking about. And the same thing happened in this case, which we're talking about all afternoon. That's why you'll be responsible. That's why you don't have to be an expert. Millions flow in the Republic of Slovenia. You don't have to be a financier to know that, and we all know that in this room. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Now he has the floor, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. After him, Mr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u59	Yes, thank you very much. I would like to respond to a colleague from the SMC Group when he presented us with his financial statements. But Mr. Christmas, here's why. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I know it's a tough topic for SMC Members, so don't get mad. Suffocating, that's a tough thing, even if you don't have any of it. Mr Christmas has made a good presentation, praised, because he is very right in this case. At the same time, however, the next part, I hope to say that such business results in NLB were in fact also due to poor business, poor management of the previous administration, before Mr Jazbec. But what should Mr. Jazbec do that moment when he saw that the administration's business was bad in front of him? To file criminal charges for unsecured claims. And that is precisely why these statements that you have shown, the new president of the SDH administration, should not become such. For it is not normal for those who did not want to or did not want to explore them out of negligence, even the barbarians, if you wish, to be rewarded. Your graphs are the reason that Mr Jazbec should not become the new president of the SDH administration. More than that, how did the cooperation between him and the previous NLB administration go, we know. One of the first unsecured loans then went to Savi at 40 million euros, then after the end of the 2012 mandate, the same gentleman then went to the Bernardin hotels. Who owns Bernardin's hotels? It's a beautiful pyramid, octopus, if you want, don't get too involved, but, since the argument is an argument, it's no different.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u60	First of all, Mr. Ange Logar has the floor. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Go ahead, mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I actually like the fact that my friend is doing graphs on Christmas, because it shows he's trying. This is nice, but it would be nice to take a list of the members of the credit committee of the New Ljubljana Bank in addition to those accounting ones when comparing them. And then he's going to find that in that curve up there, there was the chairman of the credit committee, Matthew Narat, a personal friend of Mark Jazbec, in what he was drawing, and Marka Jazbec, the one you named at the head of SDH. Your schedule first shows that you no longer appoint such personnel to the administration of SDH, not vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u62	Mr. Tillen Christmas Replica? No, no, no. Then we proceed, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, your word. Get Mrs. Marusha Skopac ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u63	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Despite the bad timing, we see that the debate is important and that it is being monitored in the media. It is the media that has been highlighted by colleagues from all the parliamentary groups. I highlighted the role of the media and investigative journalists themselves and was therefore informed by national television that the role of the third journalist in the contribution was to write a single contribution, and therefore I was misinformed. That is why it is important that we provide all the information in a concrete and correct manner. The role of investigative journalism is the role of the fourth branch of government, which can control all three branches of government. And I see investigative journalists in the light of their work as criminal work. Both gather information, both collect evidence, by writing an article by an investigative journalist, and the criminalist writes an accusation, and it all has its consequences. And it's just that investigative journalists are revealing financial flows. Of course, most of these financial flows have been disclosed by foreign financial journalists. I see my role in investigative journalism in cooperation with German colleagues who have warned me that the vast majority of investigative journalists are very difficult to do, and they have warned of the danger of this work, because we can see that some investigative journalists are in similar systems, such as the witness protection system, because they have investigated corrupt cases and have been sanctioned by informal networks. Unfortunately, some have also lost their lives. The biggest problem with the investigative journalist in Slovenia is that journalists are increasingly employed through unfair forms of work and therefore work very hard independently. And that is why I will always advocate independent journalism and that it also regulates the status of journalists who will help us to expose these networks, because we see that what corruption is in a narrow sense – criminal acts – is very difficult to detect and the easiest way to do it is through investigative journalists if they are carrying objective information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs Marush Škopac has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. I will first refer to a fellow Vrtovac who says that we are led by some lobby in the background, but not by so many Members, in fact, that they are exploiting us. And here's the question to me, how do we avoid it? Who, then, should run all these state-owned companies and banks? Are we Members or those who are qualified and have expertise? There will always be someone in this country who will know someone, either from high school or from previous employment, etc. Next thing. When you said recently that what colleague Jazbec should have done, Mr Marko Jazbec, when he realized that, before he came to the bank, a whole bunch of bad loans had been granted; that he could at least file criminal charges. On the contrary, I argue that a bad business decision cannot be the subject of a criminal complaint. Anyone can make a bad business decision because no one sees into the future. The moment those loans were bad loans, it was an economic crisis. No one has estimated that this crisis will be so deep and will last so long. However, I think that there were probably some credits between these loans and some that did not meet the criteria so that they could be approved, but among these I do not see any credit from those mentioned here. As regards the liability of individuals who have ever operated on credit boards of banks. The credit committees of the banks shall also be composed of representatives of the risk department, who shall always give their opinion. And as far as I have read the testimony of my colleague Jazbec before the Commission of Inquiry, the NLB Bank's credit committee has taken these decisions unanimously. Never was a decision based on a decision or an individual. Now, according to my colleague Logar, all three of them, the first Mrs Smolnikar, Mr Narat, Mr Jazbec had to leave the bank because they had given bad loans there. Given that colleague Logar worked there, but not at the time, probably more, but I can say with certainty that none of them had to leave, not at all because the SKB bank would be involved in approving bad loans. Perhaps, Comrade Logar, if you can answer, on what basis this claim of yours is based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much. One of the candidates has the word, mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Look, it's a very interesting performance of my predecessor. At first it fell into my eyes when she said something about a colleague of Jazbec's. Clearly, these friendships are becoming more and more evident. I kind of understand, too. A colleague, a fellow Member, was once the supervisor of the Factor Bank, and we know what happened to the Factor Bank. But the fact that a bad business decision can't be a matter of criminal responsibility, that's true, and that's the new metamorphosis of the Modern Center Party. That's a new metamorphosis. This is contrary to all the concerns of the coalition treaty. And since I was talking to you at the beginning, and I read to you, I was quoting how to determine the responsibility for creating a bank hole. Do I have to read it to you again? I won't, because I don't have much time. But I doubt even the Secretary of State will agree with you in this regard. However, I publicly assure you that Mr Miro Cerar disagrees with you. That's what I guarantee. But if this metamorphosis is to be done by the President of the Government, then this country is no longer aided. Mr Narat was the head of the main parties and we know what was the result in the area of the main parties by the Bank's SKB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The second candidate or one of the other candidates, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u69	Yes, thank you very much. In recent times, of course, we have been doing a lot of work mainly on one side by identifying the culprits for the resulting bank hole. Likewise, the National Assembly has already completed the last two mandates, as well as, of course, prosecutors, investigators, criminals, police. I don't know why we do this. Because they were doing what was right or something illegal? See, those who are guilty of granting unsecured loans are, as a consequence, guilty of the resulting bank hole, which we have cured by taxpayers, must be held liable. Then please inform the prosecutors, the criminals, Mr Kozina that they are going well home, and also Mr Kos to withdraw from the NLB, not to investigate, because they were right, as it seems, but to give unprotected loans. Yeah, and these are bad business decisions we've fixed, once again, taxpayers. And I can't believe we're talking about this in Parliament. At the end of 2013 €5 billion in tax recovery money. And for lawful acts, you say. No, it was about the bastards.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgl has the floor to prepare for Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, honourable Members. The client of the modern centre, and before that, the Mir Cerar Party committed itself to higher ethical and moral standards in pre-election meetings. It was later committed to these values in the coalition contract, and in the programme itself, before the meeting, it was not possible because it had practically no programme. But the modern center party is committed to something else. She committed herself to acting transparently, honestly, to acting politically and professionally when we are talking about staffing. Speaking of personnel, the Modern Centre Party has committed itself to acting in a non-political manner and will act professionally in particular when it comes to extremely important and responsible functions. On the basis of all these commitments, the Modern Centre Party also won the elections and won the elections. Today, after one year of the reign of Mira Cerar and the modern centre's parties, we can say for sure at least two. First of all, the Modern Center Party is far, far away from some new, higher ethical standards. And to see that, you don't have to go too far. This is what happens if we just look at the government, by ministers. If we look at the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice is still in his position, and although he has repeatedly violated laws, various regulations, he has also violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and nothing happens to him. But before that, this minister was also the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. What was he doing there as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, in addition to his primary lead in carrying out the demolition project of Janez Janša? Mr Zoran Jankovic was, of course, only collateral damage. But a key important project, at least as he said, was the exploration of this bank hole and disputed loans. I'd just like to ask if you could warn your colleagues a little bit that some of us are talking and maybe it's good if they can't sit in the hall to go and go outside. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u72	Would you do that? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u73	they're having a conversation. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u74	You've seen me watch them all the time, but there was peace. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u75	Yeah, they need to be warned sometime. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u76	Maruša Škopac, please, and Mr Jernej, please, peace in the hall! Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. So, as I said, the Anti-Corruption Commission was the one who, at the time, of course, at least that's what they were saying, was also involved in the investigation of the bank hole and the disputed loans. But I sent a letter to the President of the Commission to prevent corruption, then, to Mr Klemenčič, now to the Minister. And I have to tell you, there was no answer regarding the bank hole. Why? Because nothing really happened, because the anti-corruption commission is just an institution, a body that deals more with concealing corruption in our country than detection. Of course, he's dealing with persecution, I'll say, political opponents who are dangerous because they're trying to make order in this country. But it is important to know that Mr Rok Praprotnik, then deputy, was also involved in the search for controversial credits on the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. And what happened to Mr. Roc Praprotenik? On the Anti-Corruption Commission, he found nothing, nothing controversial about credits, at least he did not say it, nothing at all, but he was probably then rewarded with a job at the New Ljubljana Bank. And in what way? So that's where Mr. Janko Medja invited him. But you see, that's also first-class recruitment, first-class recruitment! And secondly, what happened this year that was important to us? The modern centre's client obviously employs people from their political mileage to the most responsible positions. At the same time, it excludes those who act transparently. And that's not what I'm saying. That's why we have a meeting today. On the one hand, we have a political and completely irresponsible recruitment to the SDH summit, where Mr Marko Jazbec will worry, you will not believe, for more than €13 billion of our common assets, state property, and at the same time this gentleman has done everything in the past to grant or co-responsible loans. Because he was a member of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank during this crucial period. On the other hand, it is literally those individuals who are still trying to make peace in this country. This is a completely abnormal policy, abnormal, irresponsible, untransparent, unethical. Everything you've said before to do, you've turned your head. You've turned your head completely. Mr Marko Jazbec was a member of the NLB administration and then the Chairman of the credit committee, from May 2011 to November 2012. During this period, NLB granted Savi 43 million Euros of credit, ACH 40 million Euros, Mercury 31 million Euros, DZS 28 million, Vegrad 16, Energoplan 15 million Euros. In short, it's mostly a failed company. During that period there were also the Stožice, inherited the project, completely inherited the Stožice project, but this is not of interest to you. And that is, respected colleagues and colleagues, unethical recruitment, unethical. In addition to being foolish and irresponsible. And I, I'm sorry, I can't trust the government of Mira Cerar. How can I trust him? And citizens as well as citizens have no reason to trust him, even in the light of all the latest statements he makes, including with regard to other things. In short, I don't understand this logic. Although I understand today why the Members of the Modern Centre Party are having so little debate – some of them are, and most of them are sitting here – because I believe that this is difficult to defend. Unless you're a colleague, like a colleague of Skopac, who is a colleague of Mr. Jazbec, that's what we've heard. Otherwise, it is extremely difficult to defend, and it is difficult to defend. And I understand that those of you who are the biggest financiers have not yet spoken because I understand that they are hard to defend. But, colleagues and colleagues, you should say this to Mr Cerar sometime, but obviously no one hopes, we have already heard that what he says is so and nothing can be disputed. In short, we've already fixed the banking system twice, and the banks have given out these controversial loans to the best of their eyes. And citizens and citizens have the right, for the first time, to know how a bank hole was created, who is responsible for it, and to take up situations in which 13 billion of our common assets are managed, to recruit people, individuals who had nothing to do with these controversial transactions, that is the point. It is necessary, therefore, to look at and act responsibly at some point. In short, I believe that today's debate is very important and also very necessary. I hope that she'll catch up with one of our colleagues next time to say that this really isn't going anywhere anymore, that kind of frame-up. That Mr Dragoña will also raise his voice and say that this is really not appropriate and is extremely unethical and irresponsible, and that we will later be able to say that we have recruited people in such situations who have no shadow of a doubt that they are responsible for the bank hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u79	I would like to point out here that we do not defend the recruitment here, because the recruitments in SDH were not carried out by the Government and not by the Mir Cerar Party. It was carried out by the SDH Supervisory Board and this is his task. But I am here, say, responding to the statements of fellow Members who disturb me, which disturbs my claims or I would like to check how many additional credits have been granted under the authority of Mr. Jazbec, and what additional credits are these? An additional exposure is said to be a new exposure of the bank to the borrower; whether a new loan is a renewal for you or when a new contract is concluded at the time of the maturity of the existing loan; one and the other is an essential difference. In addition, if a new contract has been concluded at the time of the maturity of the non-insured loan and was not cashable at that time, and a significantly better and better insurance has been achieved, this is a good deal for the bank. At least from the bank's point of view, no doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to prepare for Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, welcome again! Today we are talking about the controversial staffing of the existing government. We're talking about a controversial deployment in two, I'll tell you what key companies, organizations. Why the key? Because you're in control of cca. 18 billion government assets. And in a way, I really regret that there are so few of us in the Chamber now, because I would like to hear more representatives of the coalition Members, what they actually think about it. The fact that Slovenia is at the very top of state banks, we know. We know that it was at state banks that loans were distributed on friendly lines, following various political connections. Loans were granted which were inadequately secured, which, of course, led to the fact that a bank hole had actually been created and almost had to be set up by the so-called bad bank, DUTB. This was then the best solution for all of these banks to transfer bad loans to a bad bank and in some ways these banks can breathe and, of course, lend to the economy. But the problem is that no one has ever been responsible for this. None of the board members, none of the board members, none. And we know that this is about EUR 5 billion of taxpayer money. And of course, what happened? The state has committed itself to the rehabilitation of the banking system and, of course, have transferred the burden to citizens and citizens and, of course, to our descendants. But what you've done is at issue, a respected coalition. But you are the ones who were somehow responsible for the fact that this bank hole was created, in fact, rewarded. You gave them to key functions in the country. And this is what we are talking about here today, and this is what we are reminding the Slovenian Democratic Party. The fact that you're not politically involved in business, look, it's a larifari. The Secretary of State is one of the living evidence here today. He pointed out at the joint meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision and the Committee on Finance that he had tried to influence the work of DUTB in individual companies. So not to mention that it is not political interference; of course it is because you said it yourself. When you decided that you needed to change the administration at the top of the DUTB; the essence of what you wanted to remove from the top was that you wanted to remove the alien, obviously they were the only ones that were disturbing. Why? Simply because they were not politically affected, what you actually wanted, and this started happening just when the DUTB itself actually started selling the assets and claims that were transferred to it. So basically, the timeline fits very well with this work of yours, and you're not going to convince me that this wasn't just about that decision. In one reply to the oral question, the President of the Government said that Mr Nyberg had been resolved because he had violated the duty of a member of the DutB Management Board. You appointed three members yourself in the spring of this year, immediately after the Court of Auditors' report. None of these three were said to have violated the duty of a member of the Management Board, but they were also members of the Management Board. But they were yours and apparently they weren't violating it. These two were the only ones that were at issue with you, and of course, that's why you replaced them. And it also matters what you said at the time, why this exchange took place. Because they were appointed to eliminate all DUTB anomalys. But yours obviously didn't eliminate the DUTB anomalies, and that's why we should have solved everything by then. But no, yours are the rest of them, of course. People who, at the time of NLB creating a bank hole, in the years 2009-2012, are obviously very trusting. I'm talking about Mr Simonetti. It is more than obvious that he did not adequately control the New Ljubljana Bank. But you still trust him. Now let me remind you that DUTB was established precisely because of those who did this bank hole, what I said at the beginning. It's precisely because of those who were actually under-supervised by the banks. And you trust people like that. Obviously, what I'm about to say is you don't trust the right people. Maybe that's the problem. You obviously only trust those you can politically influence. I don't know what else to figure out. Second story, manning SDH. A similar story, Mr Jazbec was in the NLB administration during the same period. During the period when a number of bad loans were created. And now this person will manage about 13 billion state assets. And again, you seem to trust such a person. Where's that gonna come from, this manning of yours? I really want to know how the sales of the assets at the DUTB and also what is actually on SDH will continue. Of course I'd like to know who these buyers will be. It is likely that some colleagues or friends will be again, for this network that has emerged here is more or less one and the same people. There aren't that many. But they're very circular and they're all somehow connected to NLB. That's very interesting. Now your friends will be able to repurchase this property or these claims at a favourable price. And if possible, they'll take credit with the NLB again so they can buy it. And what do we have? Third privatisation or what? But if we remember, of course, the period before the elections, and at that time, Mr Cerar – you, dear fellows, were not much to see on the ground and not to hear – Mr Cerar's full mouth was about morality, about high ethical standards, about values. We've been through this a lot. He himself made a lot of statements in this direction. One statement, STA, which was issued on 9 July 2014: "Now you have come to realize that there are no capital, interest, botrical or any background behind us." That's what Mr. Cerar said. But I'm really wondering, can you still say that? Rumor has it that your campaign was financed. I don't know. Maybe there's some of these capital lobbying in the background. He also added that new members, likes, supporters, hope that Slovenia will be able to take them out of the crisis. I wonder which one? You may have made a public invitation for those on your website on 14 May 2015 to run for the councils of public institutions, where you have also announced that you will be publishing such public invitations in the future, which is nothing to be disputed. But I don't understand why it says here, "If you file a complaint, please inform us by e-mail." So it's an e-mail from a SMC party. Why is that necessary? Why does SMC have to know who's applying, who's running for councils of public institutions? What is the purpose of such public calls on your website? So much for your ethics and morals. Of course, I personally assess that this personnel that you are carrying out is unacceptable that it is a disaster. I believe that many people who have voted Mr Cerar are also assessing this. He won the election because he was selling this story about high ethical standards. DUTB and SDH are 100% state-owned. The government is the one who sets up the board of supervisors. However, the Supervisory Board shall appoint the Director. And don't tell me, these are just excuses, not least the Prime Minister of the government, that you have nothing as a Government. Don't tell us this and don't tell this to the public. Just for the end, maybe just one more thing. Before the elections, it was also said that we have a lot of knowledge and behaviour in Slovenia, but we obviously do not have the right people in the right places, which is what the SMC party obviously brings. Apparently, these are the real people you've put on top of DUMB and SDH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Zorman has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u83	Madam President, thank you for your word. Where to start, just in the back. A colleague of Nice Šimenko – colleague of Nice Šimenko – although we are not personal friends, she wanted to hear more colleagues from the coalition. Unfortunately, I'm the last discusser, at least in this first, official work, so I hope to please this desire of hers. It is very easy to think of it this way and to speak and generally do some scenarios and backgrounds, which the Members of the SDS very much like to do and, of course, do, as they are finally the authors of certain articles in it's beloved weeks. At the same time, I would also like to touch my colleague Dobovška, who, in fact, made an incredible discourse in his introduction and even connected these recruitment procedures with terrorism. It really hasn't been seen. And then he went on with some student lecture, theorizing, but nothing concrete. It's all in general. It's all about me. And now, at this stage, I also ask you, the proponents, you talk about networks and some backgrounds. Give me names, who runs these networks?Oh, my God! Who are these people from this network?Oh, my God! I don't know, please let me get an education. And since I'm running out of time [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u84	Yeah, time's up, Mr. Zorman. You can apply again for the rest of the time. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the Government's representative and both proposers are given the floor. The text is given by the representative of the Government, Mr Method Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I won't use the whole time because we've been discussing, so don't be afraid, I'll try to be as brief and as focused as possible. My opinion is that this meeting was, nevertheless, useful and necessary, because a discussion has developed that was important, which was very relevant and which is the basis for gradually changing the concept of standards of good corporate governance in the Slovenian environment and also here in the National Assembly. Bilaterally, both from the point of view of the opposition and from the point of view of the position. The opposition gave this very serious warning and made a mirror as to whether the personnel were properly trained, whether they were politically motivated or politically managed, and asked a number of questions, some answers. I think that, nevertheless, this discussion will contribute to the fact that there will be two major state systems – a bad bank and a Slovenian state holding company – that actually manage the remainder of state assets, which is one of the important resources for wealth and also for Slovenia's public financial balance, in order to do this function as best as possible. The trials, as far as this is concerned, have always been great in the past, so I wouldn't want to go back too much. I think we need to look ahead and, above all, we need to build on these standards of good corporate governance, and in this sense, it is not my role to now make an assessment of whether this SDH administration is appropriate or good, because, as we have said, we have not been involved in this. I think that this administration will have to prove itself with work and in particular with its results. Whether it will increase the efficiency of the management of state assets, increase the value of state assets, increase returns, increase inflows to the budget. The government will set or now sets SDH three key criteria or indicators by which it will measure them. The first will be the return on capital; as this return increases, it will have the corresponding objectives. The second objective, as far as the plan is concerned, will contribute to the public financial consolidation of the dividends into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And the third objective is how it will successfully implement the national asset management plan, this is the real privatisation programme, which must now be set up with annual plans as part of the further implementation of the asset management strategy. These will be the concrete criteria that will show and the objectives that will be the basis for all of us to be able to assess together the performance of the work of both the supervisory board and the SDH administration. Parliament shall have the power to withdraw members of the SDH Supervisory Board if it considers that this recruitment has been poor or ineffective. He can't do this under the current regime, not even the government. On several occasions, the SDH Supervisory Board has been appointed by the Government. The government proposed the SDH Supervisory Council, set up or named it the National Assembly, and only the National Assembly can call it off. The SDH Supervisory Board shall be responsible to the National Assembly, as well as to the National Assembly, after such important decisions as the recruitment of the Administration, the appointment of the Administration, shall be solely in line with the National Assembly. There were some other questions. To some I do not wish to answer today, you will be able to raise them with the Institute of the Question of Parliament to the Minister and the President of the Government. As for the specific responsibility and involvement of Mr Jazbec in the allocation of bad credits and its adequacy, it was a rhetorical question as to what he personally and these personnel are characterized by. I was merely quoting what the supervisory board had given in its personnel report. I have not handed down my judgment of value, and I do not wish to pass it on in this part. As far as bank dynamics are concerned, the picture is multi-layered. It is a period when credits were granted when the period of large credit expansion took place and there was a period when the crisis occurred and credit activity in banks had to be regulated. I wouldn't want to teach anyone here any more, but the losses should have been made substantially sooner than they began to be recognized. But they didn't start to recognize each other until they started making mistakes. Thus, each person can assess when, in fact, the risk to individual exposures of creditors has been assumed and when potential losses have begun to be recognised. After all, I would say logical and professional criteria are the most responsible element in the bank when you take the credit risk of each borrower or individual business. Then you must manage this credit risk as actively as possible until the point where you get the credit paid, fully paid. And overemphasis on the fact that the moment the losses began to be recognised, especially the responsibility of these managements for the results, this is a one-sided picture. Also with regard to the specific names and persons that have been exchanged in these administrations and supervisory councils, there is one name that appears, and in these discussions, that has never been mentioned by the proponents, who also played a very important role in the allocation of bad credits at least in the NLB, and in particular in who these loans were granted. These were the loans that represent today's worst items that have been transferred to a bad bank and presented to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. This name, which is among those mentioned, is Mr Slavko Jamnik. It is known, however, what kind of human resources combinations he then managed or led a corporate bloc in the NLB and participated in these key decisions. On different sides of the political blocks, it is possible to set a mirror, who is responsible and in what way is responsible. I think that the parliamentary investigation will have to, in all relevant respects, highlight the responsibility for this failure of the banking system in banks that have received measures to enable the Slovenian banking system to return to any stable situation. As far as DUTB is concerned, I think it has been sufficiently highlighted in all previous discussions as to what was behind. There are always some elements that can be seen from different angles. If I say a little simplistic, the lady has gone, she has always been the trigger for human resources moves in a bad bank, there have been publications and the positions taken by the Court of Auditors regarding the operation of a bad bank. [[…]] [[…]] The Government cannot ignore as clear the starting points and recommendations and requirements for corrections by the Supreme State Auditor as they were given in both situations. Why just some, why not others, why just foreigners, why not domestics, we explained. Once again, I would not specifically explain who was primarily involved in illegal acts. Those actions, when wages were still paid under the table without the Ministry of Finance's knowledge, we explained and would not explain again. I don't think we've wasted our time today. I am also pleased that the debate was relatively relaxed. I followed her very closely with my colleague, and we will try to do so in the functioning of the Ministry of Finance, in the functioning of the Government and in the functioning of these two institutions that we will continue to tolerate gradually – because these are steps you are going to take, not that you are going to make a leap in half a year, but that is only on long lines – we will introduce good standards of corporate governance and that within these standards we can actually reach optimal and best human resources solutions, only those who set these human resources solutions. And I agree with all the debaters that adequate or best human resources solutions are the key to achieving the results and expectations that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and Parliament and the Government have to these institutions to work better, more effectively and that these assets will be managed in accordance with the objectives to be set for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Of course, I cannot be satisfied with the answers, but of course I understand you, because we also have a minister who can answer that. So I fully understand your statement that you do not want to give a valuable judgment, that is, a valuable judgment, which distinguishes these people, that they enjoy the trust of the government, too, because the President of the Government said that he saw nothing illegal, that he would not trust Mr Jazbec and the new administration, but that discussion would continue, as it appears,. Today's debate has been effective and will need to be continued in any form. Once again, I will stress the importance of trust – but not trust in the opposition members, it is important that both the DUTB and SDH have the trust of people in the new administration. Finally, it is the money of citizens and citizens. If there's no such thing as trust, then it's all in vain. The Secretary of State also said that we could go, who belongs to where, in what combination of personnel, and you mentioned the name of the gentleman, I think Mr Slavko Jamnik, who was once on the board of the NLB. Look, whatever political options it comes from, or what lobbyist group it comes from, it has to be responsible for its actions in the past. And we expect the government in the opposition to be responsible for their actions from the past, whether it's Jazbec, Bear or Srnjak. And that's all we expect, absolutely nothing else. And I agree with everyone who says that Slovenia is a small country and that, of course, we will someday definitely intertwine in different positions and so on, that we cannot work in this way of human resources selection. Excuse me, there's a limit to what's fair and what's unfair, what's legal and what's illegal. And if we don't respect this limit, that's what I'm talking about, talking about the rule of law is completely irrelevant. And I fully agree with the statement that a mirror should be placed. Yeah, these people need mirrors. And once again, no one in this room has, I hope to say, any benefit from any lobbying group. However, as I have already said in the introduction, the work of Members in this case, we can talk about Members of the coalition, has been used. In the back of your back, he's in charge of your success in the elections, he's in cahoots and he's turning billions. You know, these people don't matter if they're dragged literally through the media. Why? What do you care? You've got 20,000 euros to pay. Of course, it's a little different with Members. The highest auditor in the country, the Court of Auditors therefore proposed, on account of salaries and other contracts, the discharge of the DUTB; this has been discussed long and wide in the past. Look, it's not tangible that we're throwing sand in each other's eyes, and we're pointing out that the wages were those original reasons for changing the DUMB administration, and for concluding the annex contracts. This is all publicly available, though. I still have doubts, but not only I, I am sure, the other Members, because Mr Nyberg's letters, the former non-executive director on the pressures that Minister Marble is supposed to be experiencing, are very self-explanatory, and I do not believe that a person like Mr Nyberg's former non-executive director would be able to lie about this in public. Lobi and networks, I am sure, work through government policies, pass parliament, and use in the form of institutions. And if ye speak, let us count them: for we know the uncles from behind. Mr. Tonin wrote them down as soon as he reported to the debate. Who is in charge or how is the clinical center being staffed? And since I mentioned the Clinical Center, let me remind you of Mr. Baricic. Until the last time, one of the ministers of this government defended him, to the very last. To the last defense. You know, Mr Baričič is not the director of the UKC today because of his behaviour, which is the main reason why he is not able to behave in public, was argued because he makes such and such statements. And I think at least on the basis of all the behavior about him, as soon as he became a leading director, he employed himself as a consultant to the former director, Mr. Vrhunc, and the other controversial things he had done before he became a straight director. [[…]] Well, he left because of his behavior, but he didn't leave because he was also doing some kind of illegality. That's the problem, that's the problem, and I'm giving my hand to the Secretary of State here, giving my hand to the coalition to conclude, I would say, in this National Assembly, an alliance against, for the first time, corruption, clientism, lobbying and networks, but you shouldn't then take the opposition as those who use Friday nights to talk about what the coalition did wrong. This debate was therefore very necessary. I believe we'll continue. I apologize in advance for the reduced Friday evenings, but I am responding to Article 46 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which distinguishes or which are those of the new members of the SDH administration, whose known abilities, which are those of business excellence, have also been named I agree, and the Secretary of State is not obliged to respond to this, nor has the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding responded. [[...]] And these questions will not be asked by us, but believe me, the first thing that will be gambled away, either when selling a company – not to talk about Telekom – is when you will be in an uncomfortable position, because today you are protecting these people, at least rhetorically, your back, and you do not know what people are and what people are going to be. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u89	Thank you. Well, I would ask that you be the Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, when sharing time, still take a minute or two. On the contrary, he allowed himself to comment as much as he could if we had not talked in today's debate about another member of the board, Mr Aloise Jamnik, because, I don't know, I didn't understand, it belongs to this side or how. I would ask him to tell us where, in which position – either SDH, the supervisory council, or the SDH administration, or DUTB – the government has appointed Mr. Jamnik to speak to me about him. Now for the story itself. Look, we have the President of the Supervisory Board defending this appointment, which, as we now know, is serving the DUTB well, and will probably continue to serve as the insolvency administrator, which means he's obviously having some problems with his professionalism. And then we have, on the basis of this appointment of the SDH chief, who is said to be the supervisors, that his experience has prevailed, both in the banking and economic spheres, in particular in the field of serious restructuring, disinvestment, mergers of companies, disposal of assets and so on. And then we look at his knowledge at the Bernardin Hotels: he stepped here, he left here. Only this part of Bernardin's Hotel was headed by Mr. Jazbec. And these are obviously the reasons that have convinced the supervisors and which also convince his colleague Škopcevo that Mr Jazbec is the right man to manage EUR 13 billion of Slovenian property. Now I would just like to finish reading his words in this interview for the MMC. On the question of if he was helped by the lobby and so on, he says no, but he says, "Before I applied, I first cleared up with myself that I have a completely clean and peaceful conscience, then I also cleared up with myself that I think I have enough professional and professional miles." Do you think that if the Divine Shrine or Binet Kordez were to ask a similar question to give a similar answer? I assure you, yes. But this does not mean that, like Mr Jazbec, these two are also suitable for managing SDH. Let me be clear, Mr Jazbec is not suitable for the management of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I see there are desires after the debate. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone key. If you would like to discuss, one of the representatives of the proposer of the recommendation and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. First of all, Mr. Joseph Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I am pleased with the assessment of today's debate, which we have heard from Mr State Secretary Droganje. If I were to say facebook, I would say that Mr Secretary of State is "chaining" this debate today, this meeting today. So, he clicks on the "like" sign. Of course, an experienced businessman I appreciate, and a gentleman who certainly knows a lot, and I know he knows a lot about corporate governance, but which is simply not going well with us when it comes to managing state property. We have adopted or the National Assembly, the coalition has adopted a strategy for the management of state property. I'm actually interested here, now that I've accepted, I'm interested in bringing, nothing else; 11 billion, how much income can we have? We may not be able to say the average for all companies, but the yield has to be prescribed for each company, according to my understanding. Look, it's going to be 12 months around, we're going to do the balance sheets, we're going to look at the balance sheets, and we're going to see if the board has reached these target returns or not. If not, then immediately, it must react immediately to the supervisory board and replace the administration. I don't think I've been here a few more years looking around and talking like we're all talking together, 11 billion assets, what are they? They're too low for me. Well, we can't manage. Well, administrations aren't capable. Here I might even agree with the idea that once told by another Jazbec, Boštjan Jazbec, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, Governor of Banka Slovenije, who had the idea to manage the state company "outsors". To put state property in the hands of managers, the best in the world, who have connections with the best and most important investors. I have to say, I liked this idea, but apparently it ran into a deaf ear. Let no one think that we, the opposition Members and the sponsors of this meeting, today wanted to offend the personality of Dr. Mir Cerar. No, no, no. I just regret that some jackals have apparently piled up around him, and I believe that he doesn't like these mannings either, because I can read his face so much when the interview actually somehow narrows down the questions about SDH and DUTB. Why are we talking about this so much? Because too many of these sad, brutal stories, when simply our taxpayers, so we all, lost our money, lost our will. And it's no wonder that when people meet us on sidewalks, at various municipal events or even state events, they're begging us to take those who took us; "take those who took us," they say. I've said that over and over again. Do we have the will to do this? We don't. Not even 150 thousand high amendments have we been able to support or have not been able to support, but with professional help, I will now say, the Commission of Anzet's investigation, where we are investigating together and looking for bank hole drills to get some external expertise. I'm not the credit card expert. I didn't. I'm a politician. I'm an MP. If you want, I'm a physicist. 150 grand, we didn't make it. This is a symbolic act to bring someone, I don't know, now I'm going to say, in front of the board, and I'm going to say to citizens and citizens, "Look, this is the one. This is the one who took it out of your pocket, maybe not all five billion, but a fraction of five billion." That's what this is about. And I think that at such meetings we should step together so that we can speak one language. We're not good at corporate property management. And that is why we will have peace, so we will have better results only then, believe me, when politics withdraws from the economy, from state-owned enterprises.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u93	Thank you so much for the president's word. Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament! I must admit that I was in a dilemma, whether I should say it or not, but because there have been many words spoken, especially in the direction that I can conclude, all things known I do not object to the fact that it may sometimes have to be repeated repeatedly, but that is true: several times things that may not be fully held are almost believed. [[…]] Initially, many times by a respected Member, business excellence has been said as a label to someone who does not comment on another, just business excellence. [[…]] The fact is that business excellence means a process by which licensed experts who identify the so-called business processes determine whether they comply with the European standards of the internal organisation of an undertaking or an entity. And the fact is that a legal entity has a licence of professional excellence does not mean that such an entity is also profitable. We're here to make ourselves clear. It depends on economic activity. But what I wanted to say is, given the limited time, I'm going to try to be very short; I'm going to focus on DUTB and leadership. The fact is, when the selection and arrival of foreigners was at this most responsible function of leadership, I must admit that I was very happy, especially because I was convinced that, with the arrival of foreigners, who were somehow also recognised in international circles, they would bring the so-called Scandinavian model of corporate governance and also a model of corporate governance from those environments where they worked successfully. That's another thing. I myself imagined that with such eminent experts in the Republic of Slovenia we would ensure some balance in the Slovenian business area, which has always been in place and partly still applies to the practice of Slovenian management in state-owned enterprises, where we know that, first of all, in a number of cases, it is primarily the interest and interest of individual groups. And unfortunately, something similar happened in the DURB as it was long ago in the area of banking, right after the independence, where we were very confident that foreigners would bring in completely new business models that would benefit the Republic of Slovenia and the citizens, if I were in these so-called banking areas, favourable interest rates, low margins and so on. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and I also assess something similar in the DUTB. As was said yesterday, DUTB was established mainly because of the recovery of the financial, banking sector. However, the DUTB has not been set up to involve many legal, advisory, audit, accounting, valuation services in these implementation processes. And if we just look at examples of how the stronger leadership has affected us specifically in the case of Cimosa — counselors — we must not go blind here. It is interesting to press charges in case of Sava property and so forth. Here I would mention, however, and it has already been said that the Court of Auditors for Business 2013 has also made a very clear assessment and we have also had a few words on the home committee on this matter. Therefore, I have already made it very clear on the home committee that the decision of the Government, which was taken in this case, I have made it clear that I have agreed with it. And especially because I think corporate governance is a little different from what was demonstrated by the DUTB's senior management. Because I had a very good opinion about them, as far as individual decisions were concerned, which were very good, but they crossed one point that is very valid in the business world, and that is trust. I am firmly in the position that these eminent experts, too, were well aware of the breakup of what this means in the business world. Therefore, I say that the decision of the Government concerning the activity of the holders of the highest management of the DUTB is deemed to have been the right one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u94	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u95	President, thank you for your word. In the end, the Secretary of State has essentially opened up the right subject to be discussed, which is whether everyone, both supervisors or SDH administrations, is doing what is necessary. But we don't know that yet because they're just getting started. It is not that we talk in stock and preconceive that they will not succeed, for in their current business path they have found themselves in some stories that are such or different. We're not talking about any individual. In short, the Secretary of State said that the administration – or, of course, through SDH supervisors – must meet certain objectives, criteria, ensure the payment of state dividends and so on. And if not, the National Assembly is the one who can call off the SDH overseers if, of course, they don't do their job before. And on this occasion, let me remind you a little bit about history and why we're talking about SDH today. As has already been established, the current government has taken a major step forward in terms of corporate governance, namely that SDH has finally fully completed and thus ensured professional governance. We know how SDH originated; SDH was created by the transformation of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The SDH Act, which regulates this transformation, stated and ordered that the administration of the President of the Administration and two members of the Administration. And let me remind you that the former SDH administration has only worked with two members of the administration, so to speak, one was missing. And from this title, the SDH Supervisory Board then called a call for a member of the board, and we know how it ended. With regard to previous members of the administration, Mr Runjak and Mr Pirc, it must be said that they have become members of the administration originally of the Slovenian Compensation Company; when it was transformed into SDH, they have become members of the SDH administration. This is said not to have been called the SDH Supervisory Board, because there was no SDH Supervisory Board, but it should be by law, namely, the SDH Supervisory Board should be appointed within three months of the entry into force of the Act. Let me remind you that this was in April 2014. There have been constant calls to this government, and the previous of course, "let us finally appoint supervisors". The supervisors have been appointed in a fully transparent procedure, which has been explained more than once and I will not go into this procedure again. Then, in accordance with their responsibilities, these overseers sought out new or new overseers. So it's all good and good. As for individual speculations as to why someone is inappropriate or has been successful or has been successful enough or has not been successful in his previous business, of course I leave the decision to each individual. In the end, however, I wonder who actually benefited from the problem of human resources. It certainly doesn't benefit the state, it certainly doesn't benefit the companies where the state owns it. We know that certain companies are listed for sale, we know that DUTB must also sell certain companies in accordance with its tasks, and we certainly do not benefit from all this pumping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u96	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u97	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, everyone accompanying this meeting! Once again, I say that this meeting is important and that it was an important afternoon and, above all, the topic we discussed. As the Secretary of State himself has said, this has been closely monitored throughout the afternoon. I listened to him very carefully, too. I have to say, one is a theory, and the other is a practice. Of course, I also like his statement, which he warned us that this National Assembly, or Members and Members of Parliament, has this opportunity to call off the Supervisory Council. It seems to me that it is important for us not to speak on one side or the other, that the things we say in this National Assembly are meaningless. I understand that you are often disheartened when we open things. Mr Zorman mentioned today I am not surprised when you expose us, but today I was surprised when you highlighted Mr Dobovsk, Dr Dobovška, now he is no longer with us. [[…]] I have to say, he ran with you a year ago, he stood up for these things we're talking about today. It has also given you, of course, so many Members and Members of the National Assembly. And today he is no longer with you, of course, in your Group of Members. That's one important piece of data. Perhaps I can say something as an expert, but I think Dr. Bojan Dobovšek is an expert in this field in the Republic of Slovenia. I have to say, I'm also interested in listening to him. Especially things I don't know. You also said that we often work in opposition scenarios. When we talk about your scenarios, but it is possible to prevent them, although many times it would be much better when the game is already played, it is a session like today. [[…]] That is why we want, respected colleagues and colleagues, to find these points and to remove people who are doing harm to the institutions they represent, and consequently to the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u98	There's no replica at this point. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u99	My colleagues and colleagues, for the last time, thank you very much again for this debate! I would just like to respond to one thing, a little misunderstanding between me and Mr Verbic, but positive now that we are talking about business excellence. You misunderstood me, but if you knew the Slovenian State Holding Act, you could read Article 46 accurately, I can borrow, a condition which can occupy the office of SDH's chairman, that it has at least 3 years in comparable activities and achieves good comparable results in its work. We are not talking about business excellence, I apologize, but about good comparable business results if you want, and this new Prime Minister of the Slovenian State Holding Board for thousands of reasons already mentioned – not only the NLB case, but also the Bernardin Hotels – your favorite, which you are defending, unfortunately does not meet this. But when you talk, I believe you mean well with it, but it seems kind of weird that we're giving someone who's already had a chance. So the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding has decided, with your conduct of course, for someone who has already had the opportunity. And he didn't take full advantage of it, he didn't. Believe me, there are a lot of good managers in the market, including Slovenians. They are not just one and the same who once served in the New Ljubljana Bank, which now needs to be transferred to new corporate administrations. There are other capable people, and one and the same we've been doing for the last 25 years. In fact, once again, I would not have trusted in the management of my house to someone who would have known that he had allegedly robbed a neighbor's house in the past. I wouldn't trust someone I just don't trust anymore. I'll say it again, it's the same as ordering a fox to keep chickens in a chicken coop. It's not working. And the government has decided on this path, I hope the consequences will not be too severe. However, I allow the possibility that I am wrong and that Mr Marko Jazbec and the other members of the new administration, both DUTB and SDH, will act positively, but experience from the past shows that such people should not have our trust and your trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u100	The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u101	Thank you, President. I've listened to my colleague Zorman before, but my colleague Zorman did confuse today's debate. In fact, he said in the introduction that we should discuss whether the SDH administration is doing what should be done in order to make this a real topic. After all, the Secretary of State even discussed that we could not discuss this. For precisely these reasons, he excused Mr Jazbec's appointment, when the Government has nothing to do with it and the Government will not deal specifically with and must not deal specifically with the business of SDH. As for the execution of colleague Verbič, I highly appreciate him as a fellow Member, but interestingly, he spoke of the DUTB, and he did not speak with a word about the appointment of SDH. But we know who was called the SDH principle. Now, as for Secretary of State Dragonje, when he said he hoped that SDH would now increase the value of state assets. We all know that, as you have earmarked EUR 700 million for capital investments for 2016 and 2017, this direct increase will mean this. This does not mean that it will be better managed by state property. As for the fact that the National Assembly can call off the overseers; we know that, but we also know how the coalition votes. What the Minister of Finance says is confirmed by the coalition, even though it takes EUR 600,000 to the National Assembly. However, as regards credit risk, I agree with the Secretary of State when he said that it was most responsible when you took on credit risk. For Montavar, for Stožice, for ACH, for Bernardin hotels, for Sava and so on, Mr Jazbec took the credit risk. Over 100 million bank holes came from this address. So if he's responsible for the credit risk, I don't know why the government calls him an important function, the most important function in the country. Now allow me only to conclude with one ruling from the Supreme Court on Mr Narat's appeal because Banka Slovenije, the regulator, did not give him permission to serve as a member of one of the banks' administration. In fact, it gave the Bank of Slovenia, which did not grant this authorisation to perform its functions, and it also wrote the Supreme Court: "In view of the position it has held, the claimant is on the one hand directly responsible for the poor management of credit risk in the area of lending of legal persons and for the infringements in this area and for the poor banking practice in the area of lending of natural persons and for the infringements in this area, and on the other hand, he is also responsible for the inadequate management system and for the poor banking practice in the area of managing the strategic portfolio. In the meaning of that point, the applicant shall be responsible for the infringements committed by the bank during that period, as well as for the shortcomings accumulated in the management of the bank during those years." And why am I reading this? Because I cannot get rid of the idea that the Bank of Slovenia would write the same if we wanted to place Mr Jazbec in one of the Slovenian banks. Mr Jazbec, according to read and according to this court's decision, even in the light of what the Bank of Slovenia believes, would not have passed the so-called fit and prosper test; after fit, yes, but after proper. So by appropriateness, no, because of the above. It also states: "The same is true of co-responsibility in the area of management of the strategic portfolio and poor banking practices and infringements in this area, as the debtor was a party to most of the contracts in this area." Mr Jazbec was also a signatory to most of the treaties in this area. And now I can't get rid of the feeling that if Mr. Jazbec were to run for NLB administration, he would not get the consent of Banka Slovenije, but he got the agreement to manage SDH, which manages the New Ljubljana Bank, with the Bank, with the Factor Bank, eventually with everything we still have in this country. And this is the absurdity of this recruitment and this appointment. And if you don't realize it, look, this is in violation of your coalition contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Izredna-24.ana.u102	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
