ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Ludmila Novak from 17:00 onward, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 13.00 to 14.30, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Jožef Horvat, mag. Matthew Tonin from 17:00 on, Mr Branko Zorman until 12 noon, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc between 13:00 and 15:00, Mr Franz Breznik and Violeta Tomić from 16:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Minimum Payment Act. The bill was tabled by 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this bill, the 47 Members and Members, first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Andrei Poje.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, distinguished representative of the Government, all present! It is a great pleasure and an honor to present to you today the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Minimum Wage Act, which was prepared in cooperation with seven trade unions and submitted with the support of 11.206 certified signatures of voters and voters gathered in just a few days. The amendment of the Act amends Article 2 of the Minimum Wage Act, which defines the right to minimum wage and its definition. In Article 2, a new third paragraph is added, which amends the definition of minimum wage and clearly provides that no allowance shall be included in the minimum wage for night work, an allowance for work on Sunday and an allowance for work on holidays and working days after the law. The main purpose of the proposed amendment is to apply the principle that workers, minimum wage recipients, a recognised and paid allowance for night, Sunday and holiday work should be added to the gross minimum wage in addition to overtime. The aim of the proposed amendment is to eliminate the unequal treatment of employee recipients of minimum wages who perform their work during working hours, i.e. at night, on Sundays and on days off after marriage, and now receive the same payment as those who do not work under these working conditions and are at home. Now all, regardless of the conditions under which they work, receive the same payment, i.e. 790.73 euros gross. In the proposal for amendments to the law, we followed the definition of the minimum wage, from which the overtime allowance has already been exempted and supplemented with the other three supplements, which belong to workers for work under specific working conditions resulting from the allocation of working hours in accordance with Article 128 of the Labour Relations Act. By implementing this amendment, Slovenia will at least partially approach the regulation in the other European Union countries and the decisions of the European Court of Justice, which has already stated several times in the past that the minimum wage must be paid for regular work and the allowances must be exempt from the minimum wage and added to the minimum wage. While there is no common definition of minimum wage within the European Union, in most cases the allowances for specific working conditions are excluded from minimum wages. The Ministry of Labour of Germany, for example, pointed out, as the latter, in particular, that the minimum wage is only a payment for regular work. When comparing minimum wages between countries, we must not forget that in the Slovenian case, in the case of 790.73 euros gross per month or 4.5 euros per hour, all the allowances are included, while in the German 8.5 euros gross per hour these supplements are not included. Before drafting the amendments to the law, we carried out an empirical analysis in trade unions that assessed the consequences of the proposed measures, since we did not want to put jobs at risk with the proposal. We have taken a representative sample of over fifty-nine thousand employees in companies. The data was transmitted to us by the companies we asked for help and we obtained data for the public sector through the Ministry of Public Administration. The data showed that 5.6% of the 95,000 employees received a minimum wage. Those who received the minimum wage with the night work allowance included were 1.1% of employees and 1.3% of those with the Sunday work allowance included. On average, due to the low basics of which the allowances are charged, the supplement per hour of night work amounted to 1.58 euros gross. I am talking about the average because collective agreements define the amount of allowances differently. The same applies to the public sector. Exclusion of allowances according to data from the Ministry of Public Administration for January 2015 would be felt by a thousand 786 employees. Of these, only 208 employees received a minimum wage with the night work allowance included, 405 minimum wage with the holiday work allowance included and a thousand 173 minimum salary with the Sunday work allowance included. Therefore, there will be no major impacts and consequences on public finances as well as on business operations. Finally, let me stress that this amendment of the law removes the injustices for the most vulnerable employees in the Slovenian labour market. For those who work for a month, on average 174 hours or more, who work in difficult working hours and difficult working conditions, often when we stay at home with our families and earn so little for their work that they still have to go to the Red Cross and Karitas for help. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, dear Members and Members of Parliament! Today we will talk about changing the minimum wage, namely the elimination of three extras for work, night work, Sunday work and work for holidays, which today account for the basic level of minimum wage and the desire is for these three supplements to be excluded from the definition of minimum wage. The inclusion of allowances in the basic salary is an exception only Croatia is aware of in the European regime. The government supports this change because it is not fair, and many employers also agree to include in the minimum the additions, while other workers and workers working nightly shifts, Sunday work or holiday work do not include them in their basic salary. So the definition of minimum wage is not appropriate. For many years, since 1995, since it was adopted, attempts have been made to find a solution in constructive social dialogue. Unfortunately, this one hasn't been found until today. Minimum wage is an economic and social category that has a significant impact on the dignity of work and also on poverty among employees. It is true, however, that setting a minimum wage is one of the important contents of social dialogue. The government would be much more pleased if you had before you today a proposal for a law that would be harmonised between the social partners. The proposal was tabled in the legislative procedure following the submission of the collected signatures of citizens and citizens on the initiative of seven trade unions. When the Government took note of the proposal, it immediately convened a meeting of the Economic and Social Council, but unfortunately the employers did not want to attend. The government supports the bill's proposal because it is a fairer solution, but I would like constructive social dialogue to be the basis of this law as well. From the point of view of workers and workers, it is important to change the law. The government is also looking for a way to reduce labour costs in a comprehensive tax reform, as it is aware that competitiveness is also an important part of the economy, economic growth and, of course, the goal of decent work as a whole, but believes that this change ahead of you today, taking into account the comprehensive tax reform, will not jeopardise Slovenian jobs. The government therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u6	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! According to the current definition, all overtime allowances, i.e. night work allowance, Sunday work allowance, are included in the minimum wage in addition to the basic salary. Notwithstanding the conditions of work resulting from the allocation of working time, employees of minimum wages shall receive all the same remuneration. Even if employees do night work, Sunday work or work on holidays, the end of the month is paid in the same way as the employee who did not work under these conditions, which is why they are employed according to the words of the applicants in an unequal position and are therefore justifiably dissatisfied. We Christian Democrats are aware of this. This is precisely why Christian Democrats have been working on proposals for measures to reduce wage burdens over the past few months with contributions. The central solution we are proposing is to reduce contributions to the minimum wage. The measure, if implemented together, will bring a net salary increase of 50 euros per month to the individual recipient of the minimum wage. In one year, this means another net salary, 600 euros, which we think is a nice sum. We are pleased that the responses of all the organisations presented to them are positive. We understand that the main concept of the amendment to the minimum wage law, which has been tabled by representatives of central unions with 5,000 electoral signatures, is to remove the systemic inequality created by the current definition of minimum wage, namely to exempt night, Sunday and holiday work from the minimum wage. The regulation of the minimum wage in Slovenia is the result of difficult negotiations between the social partners within the Economic and Social Council. In this context, the initiative to change the minimum wage is instead, but as far as we understand, it is not consistent with other social partners, especially employers, which is not in line with the 2015-2016 agreement on the Social Agreement. Since social dialogue in Slovenia is of great importance and a long tradition, such proposals could undermine the delicate balance that the social partners achieve with the hard work of all. We suggest that, despite the very likely adoption of the novel, you try to continue with the discussions of all the partners in the social dialogue in the interests of workers, since our common objective is as many new jobs as possible and fair pay for honest work. The New Slovenia Group will support the draft amendments and supplement the law at first reading. At the same time, let us note that our perspective of Slovenia cannot and cannot be a minimum wage, but a fair and decent payment for honest work.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u7	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u8	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that the proposal before us is supported and supported by the other two colleagues in our Group of Members. What are we actually talking about today? The minimum wage, the lowest wage a man has to get for his job. We're talking about a net salary of 604 euros. In Slovenia we have had a minimum wage legalized for some time. And that's right. Is she tall enough? If you ask me, I would like the minimum wage to be significantly higher to allow a person to live as decent and normal a life as possible. Spending a month with 604 euros and taking care of families and children, I don't know if any of us actually imagine what that means. At the same time, I am aware that our economy would probably find it difficult to survive a significantly higher minimum wage. The proposed amendment will in some way eliminate injustice. The minimum wage will no longer include supplements for Sunday, holiday and night work, and I assess and assess that this is the only right thing to do. For the public sector, this change would amount to about a million 300 additional public funds. At the rate of 4.5 billion, as far as we can get out of public wage funds in the public sector, I am confident that this budget will definitely be able to transfer or manage this amount. Even the private sector, I am sure, will survive without much damage, although we have already heard quite a few criticisms on this account. However, it is a fact that in some ways both the proposers and the economy have not submitted precise calculations. When trade unions in the parliamentary groups presented the proposed amendment, they also made it very clear that there are no or no precise calculations for the public sector because they have not or have not received data without being able to do so. But I am sure that we are comparing the public sector and the private sector and the relationship that the private sector will definitely survive this change. In the National Assembly, I have heard many times about the success of the Baltic countries, and I am confident that today we will get a case like this, what good they do, what they can do, what they have growth, how successful they are. I never wanted to live alone in a country where a person receives more than two euros an hour's work. I'm talking about minimum wage, of course. For example, it is in one of the Baltic countries following the OECD study, and this is in Estonia. In Slovenia this hourly item is twice or more than twice higher. Enough, as I've already said, probably not, but twice the size of a country that many set for us. And because I don't want to live in a country where a person has to work for two euros an hour, our pattern should be better and more solidarity, not one that is just about profits and capital. With this change ahead of us today, we are still far from the goal if our goal is better and more solidarityable Slovenia. But we're definitely on the right track. That is why we will support the proposal before us today and also in further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Nice greeting of the president, colleagues and colleagues, audience in the hall! When we became fully aware of today's intention to amend the Minimum Wages Act in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we found that the issue addressed by the proposed amendment illustrates in one of the most visual ways the cancerous image of Slovenia's political, social, economic and also value system of the past decade and beyond. The content under consideration today, through the proposed substantive amendment, shows the way the rule of law operates, which, especially in the eyes of the public, also allows the eyes of the Constitutional Court and the social partners and also introduces inequalities in payment for the same work done by those who receive a minimum wage. Work is a fundamental human activity and value. The right to work and pay for it is a constitutional right, as well as a constitutional right to ensure equal conditions for payment for the work done. In the Republic of Slovenia, if a minimum wage is paid, such a condition of equality does not necessarily exist in practice. On a systemic basis, trade unions and employers should agree in each other's dialogue on their own, and by no means the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The result of the lack of social dialogue for part of a group of workers, I stress, is part of a group of workers who receive minimum wages, not for all workers who receive minimum wages, but this result of the lack of social dialogue means that for years these workers have been regarded as extras for night, Sunday work, for work on holidays and for work on days off. If there was a dialogue between trade unions and employers, trade unions would not accede to such collective agreements. Employers would agree so long to respect constitutional and labour law and the rights to agree. In the event of failure, however, the competent institutions would be reminded of the inability to carry out social dialogue. And what do we find today? The social dialogue between partners is obviously not successful. The proposal under consideration also lacks the support of the Economic and Social Council, the most vulnerable working group in society receiving a minimum wage for its work, and for its basic salary under more demanding conditions than other groups of workers, as well as those working groups that receive minimum wages, but have agreed in their sectors on how to pay the allowances for work, and therefore this group of workers who have carried out a successful social dialogue and receive a minimum wage do not face the problem addressed here today. Thus, today's topic in the functioning legal system would not be dealt with in this way in this space, in the National Assembly, as it would be successfully addressed in constitutional and legal frameworks and also regulated by the social partners themselves on their formal ways of negotiating. The National Assembly would therefore not serve as a circuit for social dialogue. The current arrangement, which allows night and Sunday work allowances and work between holidays to be included in the amount of the minimum wage paid, is unconstitutional because it is unfair. The principle of equality also binds us to respect for the diversity, which means that we must all be equally paid for the same work, taking into account the different burden of the individual at work, of course. In all other cases, we are talking about exploitation and inequality. If you want, we're talking about modern forms of slavery. The minimum wage shall be the minimum amount that the worker receives for full-time work. Adjuncts for night and Sunday work and work during holidays must be paid over the amount of minimum wage. In those circumstances, when the Institute of Social Dialogue has failed, by the way, to allow for any interpretation of how the allowances should be paid in or outside the amount of the minimum wage, we will, of course, support such content as a change in the definition of minimum wage, which equals the equality of conditions for payment of the work done. There's something else that's said wrong these days. The word is wrong that this treatment will raise the minimum wage. That's not true. It is only our intention to regulate or curb the current abuse of legislation resulting from failed or non-existent social dialogue between trade unions and employers. At the same time, we would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the equalisation of the rights to pay from work in developed civil society, guided by the principles of respect for man and his rights, is not and must not be seen as a reason for economic damage. On the contrary, it must be a challenge to establish, at the same time, successful and effective measures to enable the economy to function well, with a post-decent payment objective. For this reason, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, the regulation of the definition of minimum wage is addressed at the same time as regulating the package of tax measures and restructuring the burden of public funds, which will increase competitiveness or ensure further promotion of economic growth and labour costs. Our common goal is and must be to create new jobs, economic development and thus the state of prosperity. Finally, I would like to point out that the National Assembly is not and must not become a place where disagreements between the social partners will be resolved. Today, we are not putting ourselves in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, either on the side of trade unions or on the side of employers or the economy, but we are putting ourselves on the side of the rule of law and protection and equal rights to pay from work to the weakest groups of workers. On the basis of all the above, we will support the proposal of the Law on Minimum Wage in First Reading in the Group of the Modern Centre of the Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u11	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u12	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Minimum Wage Act, which has been designated by the proponents in public as a proposal to raise the minimum wage. This is not true, of course, since the large majority of recipients will not receive a higher minimum wage. The bill only proposes that the beneficiaries of the minimum wage should also be paid an allowance for night work, Sunday work and holiday work. It is therefore proposed that only allowances be paid to those who carry out the work. However, the minimum wage remains unchanged. Despite the fact that the minimum wage was not raised, the proposal was not consistent with the social partners. This is a dangerous practice because it is an area where social dialogue should be the basis for regulating labour and social issues. The positive sides of the social dialogue were seen in the adoption of new labour law and pension legislation in 2012, and the negative side of the pension reform in 2011, which was precisely due to the lack of coordination with the social partners at the referendum. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we really hope that the law in question is only an exception and that this coalition will not solve matters beyond social dialogue. Finally, it was the proponents who opposed the adoption of the minimum wage law in 2006 because it was not agreed between the social partners. Obviously, the bill's proponents believe that social dialogue must be respected depending on how the coalition is made up. The solution proposed in the law will not be the most important for those workers who will receive these supplements, but for a country which will therefore receive more contributions. In the media, it was possible to see a calculation that the recipient of the minimum wage eligible for the allowances would receive 120 euros gross more, but would end up retaining only 50 euros due to higher income. It is therefore an additional burden on employers, in which they will not acquire the workers most, but the country. The only measure to ensure higher wages and could be in line with all social partners is to relieve labour costs, as this would actually increase net minimum wages and the change would probably be supported by employers. In doing so, we reiterate our call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to effectively and systematically burden the economy and to remove too many bureaucratic obstacles that stifle entrepreneurship and private initiative in our country. Regardless of these concerns, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Minimum Wage Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. The reason for our support is one and enough weight, which is that the proposal eliminates obvious discrimination against workers with a minimum wage in the performance of night, Sunday and holiday work. These workers are twice discriminated against, compared to others who receive minimum wage and do not work under worse working conditions at night, over holidays or over weekends. Secondly, they are discriminated against compared to those who receive wages higher than the minimum wage and are therefore entitled to night, Sunday and holiday work allowances. This is so obvious discrimination that it is very likely to be eliminated by the Constitutional Court at the first initiative. This issue has clearly been known to the proponents for a long time. In all of this, I wonder why this proposal should have been delayed by union candidates, why we were only informed of this solution in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia when it first announced or initiated the process of collecting 5,000 signatures and thus extended for a few months the adoption of this solution instead of proposing a solution following a reduced legislative procedure and would have been adopted today. The workers would have received these supplements today. Unfortunately, the way in which it is accepted and proposed suggests that the priority of the proposer was a populist effect and not a concern for the worker. The same is true for a coalition that supports these solutions, but has nevertheless submitted a request for a general debate that postponed the adoption of the solution for at least one month or two. We are convinced that the solutions, as proposed in the amendment of the law, are right, regardless of the circumstances in proposing this law, so we are talking about the principle that workers also need to be recognised and paid an allowance for night work, Sunday work and holiday work, which should be added to the gross minimum wage. As I said in the introduction, we will also support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All of you, welcome! The bill before us changes or, better said, corrects the definition of minimum wage by removing supplements for Sunday, night work and work on holidays. According to the applicable legal definition, minimum wages may be included in all allowances resulting from specific working conditions and linked to the allocation of working hours. These are for night work, work on Sundays, and work on holidays, or work off days after marriage. In this category of additives defined by the Labour Relations Act, the overtime allowance has therefore already been eliminated. Of course, the minimum wage may include other supplements arising from specific workloads, adverse environmental impacts and occupational hazards. A work-time allowance and a work-performance allowance may be added. Suma sumarum is added to the worker’s basic salary all these allowances and receives a net payment of EUR 604 at the end of the month, with which he can afford a basket of basic necessities of life. In fact, many cannot afford it and are forced to ask for social assistance or to turn to humanitarian organizations. Remember, too, that this worker still has a family at home to feed and clothe. Above all, let us not forget that he also worked for a few nights and a few weeks, and he also spent a holiday at work. This is the real life of a few tens of thousands of people. And if his colleagues sleep all night and spend all weekends with their family, and they get the same pay for the same type of work, it has to be admitted that this is really not a fair play. The minimum wage is an economic category, but also a social one, since, in terms of human rights, the issue of minimum wages is primarily a question of the right to a decent payment that guarantees human dignity. On the other hand, minimum wages must also be an aspect of fairness and equal treatment in relation to working conditions. And the latter is the content of the law under consideration today, as it is at least partially eliminated in the same group of people. The applicants are convinced that the statutory minimum wage must be the same for all workers employed in the Republic of Slovenia and that the actual payment must take into account the adverse effects arising from the allocation of working time. This is not how we talk today about this law changing the amount of the minimum wage. Deception to raise the minimum wage with this proposal is extremely inappropriate, but it is addressed from the perspective of equality and justice. In the Desus Group we certainly agree with the new definition of minimum wage and support the proposal. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, the wrong perception of the value of labour or labour still prevails. The opinion of the legal profession is clear on the issue of minimum wage, and lawyers have also pointed to it on this year's working and social protection days. A key message was that social development must also be taken into account in economic development and that the minimum wage should be such as to allow social participation not only of existence. The regulation of working relationships must be seen from the point of view of human rights if they are to be taken seriously. Thus, one of the prominent lawyers said, quote: "The right to an allowance stems from the applicable labour law. The definition of an additive is necessary, since those with the lowest wage that they would need most do not receive it. The union proposal is so reasonable, meaningful and well-founded." What does the employer's side say? As expected and still strongly opposed to the proposal so far, they are once again panicking and threatening to forgive. More. They are responding to this perfectly fair proposal by trade unions with demands for further infringements of labour rights. Of course, they tend to silence everything that has happened in their favor in recent years. We have recapitalised banks with billions in recent years. Yes, these same banks, which have given favourable and inadequately secured loans to companies, are some of them who have deliberately exhausted companies and sent people on the road daily. Also, tens of billions of countries have well-intentioned and with specific positive objectives, not only for the preservation but also for the development of our economy and thus for the society as a whole has dedicated its actions to the economy in recent years. Let me summarise some of these: the reduction in the rate of pension contributions, the abolition of the levy on paid salaries, the reduction in the rate of profit tax and years of various reliefs or subsidies, such as the partial reimbursement of wages and training costs for temporary workers or, for example, the facilitation of investments and research for development and, last but not least, more flexible labour legislation. Of course you don't go throwing everything in that basket. With all due respect in the Desus Group we welcome those companies that have already exempted certain allowances from the minimum wage. In these companies, they are aware that a good working climate is a prerequisite for greater motivation for workers, and as a result this means greater productivity and performance. In the Desus Group, we firmly believe that the decline of the economy on Slovenian soil due to this change in the minimum wage cannot be talked about. If this is not caused by the increase in the minimum wage in 2010, when it was actually a nominal increase from €597 to €734 due to the alignment of the minimum wage with the minimum wage basket and thus increased by €137, it is unlikely that any company will have to close its doors due to the few ten euros that workers fully deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u15	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u16	Dear Mr. President, Minister, the esteemed choir! The issue of effective solidarity, which, on the one hand, provides prosperity and equal opportunities for all residents and residents and, on the other hand, enables a flexible and competitive economy, represents one of the key civilisation outcomes, and the search for a balance between the interests of the economy and the situation of employees, a process that is subject to constant adaptation and change and the sometimes more and sometimes less effective social dialogue. Often, like today, the central point of such discussions is exactly the minimum wage, its definition, its scope and its attitude to productivity. According to the definition of an international labour organisation, the minimum wage is the minimum statutory amount to which the worker is entitled to work within a specified period and is calculated on the basis of working hours or production volumes and must be sufficient to cover the minimum life needs of the worker and his family, taking into account the social and economic and social conditions in the country. In fact, Raison d être minimum wages define an understanding of the relationship between its economic and social function. While the latter often manifest themselves in a conflict relationship, they do meet the same primary and fundamental objective. Thus, in today's debate, there is no emphasis that the Slovenian State understands and emphasizes, through its constitutional order and the tradition of solidarity, the social role of the minimum wage, which it also understands through economic policy as an institution of macroeconomic policy to meet the wider objectives of economic policy, i.e. to ensure economic growth, the reallocation of income and, in the final stage, the preservation of purchasing power. In the current situation, this means that the minimum wage is also one of the possible tools to strengthen domestic consumption and thus to sustain the economic growth that we have achieved after almost a decade of the crisis. It must be understood, however, that minimum wages can also cause negative effects on productivity, increase prices of products and services and lead to inflationary pressures and reduce the competitiveness and profits of businesses. It is precisely because of the difficult economic situation and the fear of the negative effects of interference with the minimum wage that it is not too much to stress that we are at a time when some inflationary pressure is even what we want. We need increased consumption and continued economic growth. The latter, however, can also be ensured by a fairer regulation of the minimum wage. Existing studies in the past decade have shown that raising the minimum wage contributes to increasing productivity through the effects of substitution and adjustment in technology and business processes. In addition, the results of the 2010 analysis of the changes in the minimum wage show that the rise in the minimum wage has had a positive impact on productivity, especially in enterprises and activities that are more burdened by minimum wages and less in those who are not. Therefore, in considering changes and interference with minimum wage, it does not increase the consideration of the OECD recommendations proposing a moderate increase in minimum wage relative to productivity, and positively assesses the reforms implemented by the Republic of Slovenia on the labour market since 2013 when many measures have been taken, particularly those aimed at eliminating duality in the labour market. The proposal by the trade unions, which is before us and on our benches today, does not yet open up a wide debate on the role, function and definition of the minimum wage, as it might be necessary at this time, even because all stakeholders in this process are aware of and aware of the importance of social dialogue in interfering with such a crucial substance. Therefore, today we are only doing away with the long-standing injustice suffered by the recipients of the minimum wage, and the space to continue the dialogue between employers and trade unions on the subject of minimum wage is left open. The aim of the proposed law is to ensure that the minimum wage is better regulated in such a way that workers who receive the minimum wage are also recognised and paid an allowance for night work, Sunday work and holiday work. In this way, a more equal treatment is established for employees who receive a minimum wage and perform their work under specific working conditions resulting from the allocation of working time, i.e. during unfavourable working hours, in view of those employees who also receive a minimum wage but do not perform their work at a less favourable time. Because we believe that social dialogue can continue and because we believe that everyone in the National Assembly understands the importance of fair pay for honest work, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law in the Social Democrats Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting from me, too. Let me read for introduction the quote of American President Franklin Delan Roosevelt, who in 1933, after several years of major depression, which was similar to the crisis we are experiencing, stated, quote: "No company that pays for its existence under the level of survival deserves to do business in this country." End of quote. 80 years later, the mantra became exactly the opposite. Mantra is a reduction in labour costs. Today, the country is not concerned about ensuring decent standards, decent lives for workers and workers, but is concerned only about lowering labour and social rights so that capital can access as cheap a workforce as possible or, if translated as a result, that capital has the most affordable workforce available. Therefore, in the United Left, we support, of course, the amendment of the Minimum Wage Act. At the same time, we will also propose a correction to remove all the allowances from the minimum wage, not just those listed. We support that the joint union centres have finally taken this step in the right direction, but it has to be implemented to the end and all the supplements have to be excluded from the minimum wage. The beneficiaries of the minimum wage were around 37 000 last year. Many of them had a base substantially lower than the minimum wage to the base, or up to €593 only after overtime, Sunday work, night work, work in special conditions and with work-life allowances and so on. However, the net minimum wage in the worst case scenario was still only over €570, while the poverty risk threshold for 2013 was set at €593. Thus, the minimum wage in the current form does not remove many employees from the poverty risk threshold, which is supposed to distinguish the approximately bearable social situation from the totally intolerable one. It is therefore no wonder that there were 291 000 people living under the risk of poverty in Slovenia last year, and that the phenomenon of so-called poor employees is becoming more common, so the people who have jobs are not able to live properly. These are the reasons why we will propose in the United Left that the minimum wage, in addition to the proposed supplements, should be exempt. These are work-life allowances, for special working conditions, those resulting from specific workloads, adverse environmental impacts and risks at work. This is fair, this is a social emergency, and this is economically justified. When we talk about the economic justification of such measures, we often hear fear of non-competitiveness and excessive labour costs, but this is unrealistic and completely confused with the real picture of the Slovenian economy. Slovenia is not facing a cost competitiveness crisis, which clearly shows last year's 7% excess exports over imports. This is by the way even above the limits of the European Semester, which provides that the country may have a maximum surplus of 6 % of exports above imports, Slovenia recorded 7 % last year. And this trend cannot continue over the long term, as all countries in Europe are now balancing their balance of payments. Economic recovery cannot be based on suffocation of domestic demand, this is even in the face of unstable economic developments in Europe and around the world, unwise and risky. It is simply necessary to raise domestic demand for more stable growth. At present, the main threat to the European economy, including the Slovenian deflation and the secular stagnation of the Japanese type, is why, in countries such as Germany, they decide to take measures such as raising the minimum wage in order to boost domestic demand, which will significantly encourage economic growth. Higher minimum wages do not mean suffocation of the economy, as we often hear from employers' mouths, but on the contrary – higher minimum wages mean additional purchasing power if you want, additional oxygen for the economy. This is also evident in the case of our history. After 1991, Slovenia experienced economic depression and economic collapse at the loss of Yugoslav markets. She was pulled out of depression by a measure that everyone thought she was not going to, and that was a rise in wages that began in 1992. Between 1992 and 1996, wages in Slovenia grew at a rate of 8% per year, which led to a growth of between 4% and 5% per year for domestic demand. Growth was therefore based on domestic demand in addition to dynamic exports in these years when Slovenia stood on its feet, which was also the basis for a sustainable development model in terms of public finances and the social state. Let me point out, Slovenia did not have public financial imbalances at this time, nor did it in the next decade. With these macroeconomic reasons in the United Left, of course, we hope that the measures we are taking today will encourage businesses to consider whether night, holiday, Sunday and other non-standard work is really necessary, and that this will lead businesses to think about workers and employees more humane, friendly work organisation wherever possible. We must be aware that the supplements paid by companies for non-standard forms of work do not also pay for all the negative aspects that such work has on quality of life to those who work under special conditions. When we sleep, rest, enjoy weeks with our loved ones, some have to work, many have to work at the time even to get to the edge of the minimum wage. This problem is becoming increasingly pressing for holiday workers and workers who do not only have a fully flexible working time, but are also deprived of the right to any minimum standards, including minimum wages. It should be pointed out that, unfortunately, Slovenia has become one of the most favoured countries in the European Union. About 40% of the working population works in atypical forms of employment, i.e. in jobs that are out of regular employment. It is therefore imperative that minimum standards and protection should also be introduced here, thus eliminating the very appearance of the penitentiary work. The minimum wage here can serve as one of the key legal protections of fundamental labour rights in all areas. The dilemma that Minister Marble pointed out a while ago, which he put into question in the following way, I quote, "are we going to raise wages because of the better results of the economy or are going to allow part of this result to become more employment, especially for young people", the end of the quote is not true. So, the dilemma is whether we will have higher wages or whether we will have surpluses created by our economy by Minister Marble is not true, as many researchers have shown. Finally, a resounding survey was carried out at the University of Hamburg in 2011, where, on the basis of statistical surveys of the German economy, it showed that the correlation was very reversible. So higher than minimum wage, higher purchasing power, higher domestic demand and therefore lower unemployment, less poor employees and less cost-effectiveness. And not the other way around, as our minister has moved the dilemma, which looks like it's through neo-classical glasses. The minimum wage is therefore an important instrument setting out standards that are also translated into other jobs. A minimum wage raise would also benefit the nicknamers, because the minimum wage is anchor, so we must treat it as a reference point for all working rights and set it high enough to allow a decent survival. This is particularly necessary in times of crisis and its resolution, which have dramatically increased inequalities in society. The share of capital and the highest wages is increasing, and for example, managers' salaries, other incomes, especially the lowest and those received by holiday workers, are stagnating or even falling. That's why the focus should be reversed. Instead of pushing the country forward into underdevelopment and competition with peripheral countries by reducing labour costs and social rights, we need to finally develop staff, education, democratisation in jobs and decent standards for all. 80 years after Roosevelt's famous statement, it's time to revive her. Let Slovenia become a country where no company will pay wages below the level of survival. But we are taking the first step towards a more just society today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, government representatives, union representatives! First of all, thank the unions that you have managed so much courage, determination and effort that you have decided to take this step and take it out so that we can talk about it today. And if anyone is to manifest populism to you, truly thank him and tell him that you are doing this in the name of the populus — the people. I am pleased that we are finally talking about changing the definition of minimum wage, because we are not raising the minimum wage today. The minimum wage remains what it is, because we have a law for it. It remains like this, with 790 euros and some hundreds, which means 603.32 net, with an established increase in tax relief, namely 561.46. I hope I wasn't wrong in the decimals, and these are the numbers that are worrisome, not to say, in the sky. I am pleased that until this debate and until this decision, as far as I have heard and understood from the positions of the Group of Members, there will be no problems, and we will all support this proposal. I'm glad this is coming. But I can be sad for the reason that we have, or not that we have, that we need such an institution, because we could in ourselves think that the lowest wages would be there a thousand and something. As I am sad that we must have social transfers that alleviate the crisis, I am sad that several hundred thousand people have a pension of less than 500 euros. But anyway, we come to that point, we come to realize that somehow good economic indicators, growth of social product, positive external trade balance and so on, that some people will have from having some of it pensioners. Let us not forget, pensions will continue for a long time, but it is not our mantra, but the sincere desire and satisfaction of this success, that we have succeeded, that they will be valorised in January, and not all will finally relax with January some transfers to individuals and households, unfortunately not all. And here, the redefinition of minimum wage is also ahead of us, who believe that it will be successfully graduated. Now perhaps a sentence and a half on the history of this institute. The minimum wage as an institution for the protection of the material and social level of employees in the Republic of Slovenia was first introduced, we all know that, with an agreement on the policy of wages and other remuneration of employees in the economy, which was concluded as a separation of the social agreement for a long time in 1995. The minimum wage has, as we know, compensated the then used guaranteed personal income or guaranteed salary. As far as 1995 is concerned, it is obvious or in hand that it has been so long that some modifications are needed. And modification, minimal, yet so grateful that Sunday work, night work and work at the holidays are eliminated, I think people who receive such pay deserve it. This salary receives, or the first fourteen classes, in the classification of the classes of public servants is below this minimum wage, and this probably also says something. However, we all know what the nominal numbers are, how many people in the economy and in the public administration receive such a salary. Such public sector salaries represent approximately €1.1 million of additional resources for the country. At the same time, it is necessary to know that certain social transfers on this basis are likely to decrease, increase purchasing power and that this economic cycle will go in a positive direction. Why the minimum wage? The minimum wage is because it is in some ways a social correction, because it is one that contributes to the fact that there will be no greater risk of poverty. As we know, about 14% of people are below this threshold and over 20% are at risk of social exclusion. And that's alarming information. But what's worrying about this is that people who go to work, who do what they do, who do what's right, who kick, are poor. They get less than a thousand euros, they get a minimum wage. And that's a worrisome thing to worry about. I never, never said that social transfers are too high because they are not. They're probably too low. But I can say that the minimum wage is too low. Even with this minimum correction, it's too low. For illustration, because you probably know this, Europe is not foreign to this fire engine, this soothing, this social surrogate or whatever I call it. They have minimum wages, ranging from EUR 184 in Bulgaria to almost EUR 2 000 in Luxembourg. Of course, Slovenia is here somewhere. I believe that we do not like to compare ourselves with Bulgaria, Romania, etc., that we all like to compare ourselves with Benelux and Scandinavia, and Germany, by the way, a few months ago, adopted Germany with this minimum hour item of EUR 8.5 gross and without these supplements, which are still in our minimum wage. And I think we have to make an effort to do that. As it is said, minimum wages are by some definition an economic category, that is indisputable, but unfortunately it is also a social correction. It seems very sad to me that some of the debaters have already said in the introduction, and I think the Minister has also talked about this, but the matter has not been coordinated with the social partners. Who's to blame here? The union that suggested this? No, no, no. The government that called this third party? Not at all. So the answer is in the palm of your hand. I'm also concerned that on the employer's side, I can't interpret this any differently than snorkeling, but ha, if it goes to heaven – I mean, it's going to go to heaven, 790 gross, and then there's going to be social contributions to the cash register, and so on? — in short, if the salary goes up, this is a threat, I think I read an address in the paper that is bad for both workers and the economy. Please, bad for the workers and the economy! Will the workers lose their jobs? Yeah, they can probably lose their job even if we lower the minimum wage, but I don't think that's how it goes anymore. I'm not defending the balance sheet: all the same salaries, no exceptions, all the same cars, all the same clothes. But those terrible differences, super expensive cars, luxury villas, yachts, luxury on every step on one side, small handfuls of people, on the other hand, people who go for bread at night, because the price of bread goes down in the evening. Well, that's not going to work. At least it's not Desus! And that must be done. Exploiting and saving on the labour force, on the people, on the employees and exclusively on them, we also have to end this, or we push them out, make them poor. Who's gonna buy the products? Who's gonna use the services? The economic cycle, the financial cycle, the circle will close. If this is the point of neoliberalism, then it must be thrown into the dump of history. On conclusion. I'm tired of these strong neoliberalist Flossules, and I think it's time for the social state, now and without a pardon. And that's what I think we're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u21	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Get ready, mags. Matthew Tonin and Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, representatives of the union, colleagues and colleagues! The law that we have today at our disposal gives us the opportunity to ask ourselves again about the situation of workers and workers, to finally hold an argumentated debate and to end up hearing the whole policy, which is not, should be done to enforce labour rights. Knowing that employers and capital owners generally have the opposite interests as workers is nothing new. Each time, the current authorities can place greater emphasis on the interests of work and the interests of capital. Current economic recovery may give the impression that improving the statistical picture of the situation in society also applies to actual practice and the specific situation. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Many parties and many politicians stress only capital and profit. The requirements for a lower level of solidarity and social rights are in line. It is therefore essential that we strengthen the ideas and policies that respect work, underline the social partnership, demand respect for labour rights, fight unemployment and the fair value of work. They stress the importance of solidarity, social justice and equality in the exploitation of fundamental social goods. The aim of the proposed law is to ensure that the minimum wage is better regulated by law in a way that recognises and pays the allowance for night, holiday and Sunday work to be added to the gross minimum wage. In this way, a more equal treatment of workers who receive minimum wages and who perform work in specific working conditions is established at an unfavourable time, in relation to those workers who also receive minimum wages but do not perform their work at an unfavourable time. It is right to settle matters in the field of minimum wage and eliminate the anomaly. The minimum wage at this point is EUR 790.73 gross, i.e. a net of some more than EUR 600. By means of this law, we want to ensure that the minimum wage is better regulated by means of recognition and payment of the allowance to the beneficiaries of the minimum wage. It's, like we said, night work, holiday work and Sunday work. Thus, the minimum wage would cover all the elements of the salary, as stated by the Labour Relations Act, namely the basic salary of the worker, part of the salary for work performance and the allowances to which they belong during full-time work. The minimum wage, however, does not include travel, transport to work, travel costs, vacations, departures, jubilee awards and working hours. In Slovenia, there are still many employed poor and precarious forms of employment, and there are still many employers who are in violation of labour law and who are in grave violation of workers' rights. On the other hand, we have successful entrepreneurs who are aware that only satisfied and adequately paid workers can contribute to the success of the company. This example, which we have been following recently, is the Glass Hrastnik, which was in red numbers five years ago, and is by establishing a proper and respectful attitude towards workers with confidence today a successful company and workers of a thousand EUR 300 gross wages. The hospital went down, too. So if the desire for the success of the company is right and the right people are in the right places, then good stories of success are to be created, which should be an example to many. There is no exploitation of workers in the company, but workers are equal and respectable interlocutors who are happy to go to work are effectively and properly rewarded. We still want such companies and the minimum wage can be raised in the future. Of course, I will also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u23	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Prepare Dr. Bojan Dobovšek and Dr. Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u24	Good afternoon. Why does she always scream like that when I start? Okay. I guess it's always such a whiny start. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! If we look at the current economic situation, what is happening in Slovenia and what has been causing economic growth over the past two years, then I think it is an old mantra that we are all repeating: economic growth has been pushed forward in recent years mainly by exports and infrastructure investments that have been concluded in the financial perspective 2007-2013. All economists stress that domestic consumption will need to be increased for some sustainable economic growth in Slovenia. The real increase in domestic consumption is crucial, which can provide some economically stable Slovenia. The fundamental question is how to increase domestic consumption. The answer is relatively simple and the performance is much more difficult. By increasing the income of the citizen to keep citizens more in their wallets. This is the only way to increase domestic consumption. But to make that happen, we have two different options. One option is to simply raise wages, but for this option there is little room and the economy would not be very pleased. On the other hand, we have a second option to lower taxes and thus increase the net earnings of our citizens. As responsible politicians, we must first and foremost look for a formula to achieve this, so that we do not burden the economy further and to ensure net higher remuneration for our citizens. In Novi Slovenija, we have been dealing with this issue for several months, and I am sure that we have also found a formula for how to do this. How could people with a minimum wage be given 50 euros more each month at their expense? If we are talking here about two, three, five, maybe even 10 euros of extra earnings for those with minimum wages, we can probably be honest that this extra income will not be able to translate into more consumption, because with five, ten euros, the ones with minimum wage will not be able to help much. 50 euros is already such a different number. 50 euros a month means more than one extra salary at the end of the year. This is already some concrete tangible amount. You're probably asking me if you're gonna ask me how we could do that. In a way that was similar to the income regime, in order to also determine some non-contributory earnings in the calculation of contributions. If we put in a year that there can be an untaxed and unspent salary of EUR 3 000 300, this means that there is a monthly tax-free €270, which makes a worker with a minimum wage of €50 more. The minister sitting here is giggling with his head, so that it can mean a lot of pressure on the budget. I agree, that's what we've done. Such a proposal would result in a $400 million outage from the state budget. That's a fair confession. But this is a static calculation, but if you add other elements to this, the numbers are much lower. At least greater consumption, higher VAT inflows and also a few more jobs created should be added. I think that this Parliament and this country must strive to create as many jobs as possible, because every employee has twice the benefit of paying into state treasury and at the same time the country does not have to pay for certain social transfers. Or if I reverse the story in a different way, every unemployed person is twice as much damage to the country as it does not pay into the pension or health allowance and the country has to pay certain social transfers. And with some slightly bolder measures, I believe that certain things can be brought forward as well. But if we're always going to do things a little bit, then I'm afraid there's going to be some over-positive effects. Certainly, the minimum wage is too low, and we can all agree on that together. Our parliamentary group walks around the field every month and visits a number of companies and meets people who work hard for the 600 euro fights every day. And these people must certainly be admired. Recently, I received severe criticism because I said that we have a system that encourages people not to work or that people are not worth doing more. I'll explain why. I certainly admire those who work all month for minimum wage. The subject must be given all recognition. But of course people are rational beings. And when someone figures out that with various social transfers, with contributions from the state and the municipalities to kindergartens, for school meals, in short, when you put it all together, a lot of people ask themselves whether it makes sense to work for 600 euros a month, but if they can get roughly the same amount from the country, because we still have a social state. And this is a question that we must all be interested in, how to make the system, so that people will be happy and happy to work. I don't think it's a blasphemous question that is a question that is purely in place. And the things I've just said, I'm not making this up, but these are the questions that people in your offices probably ask you: is it worth working for a minimum wage? And all those who work really drop down! When you see the conditions under which they work, for example, the production of 8 hours, the single work for 600 euros — see, there is really nothing to add. I am also convinced that higher minimum wages, or raises them, are an incentive to raise the minimum wage, the goal of all of us. My predecessor, Mr Pikl, also spoke about how I do not know such and other concepts should be rejected, how a minimum wage should be raised. Absolutely. Just don't let it stay just in words. We need to move on to action. That's an essential point. At least we have studied in depth in these things, found some solution that will most likely initially come across a lot of resistance due to excessive budget cuts, but I repeat that this is a static calculation. On the other hand, such bold action can also lead to greater overrun by consumption and new jobs. Only in such a bolder way will we be able to move things forward, but everything else I think is going to move on in some kind of vicious circle. But since there is a lot of pessimism in Slovenia, there is a lot of negativity and all this pessimism and negativity does not encourage people to spend and worry, in their own words, about the economic cycle spinning in one way or another. If I finish. At least this Parliament will have several concrete opportunities and opportunities in the coming months to raise the net minimum wage, but not the gross minimum wage, which will mean that the cost of the economy will not increase, but will increase workers' earnings or earnings. This will be a concrete possibility, and I hope that there will be no excuses at that time, why this or that cannot be done. However, as far as the union proposal is concerned, it removes certain injustices and there is no need for such a proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u25	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u26	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I would like to express my joy at the fact that, in fact, all the parliamentary groups and all the individuals you have discussed have expressed clear support for the amendment of the law concerning the inclusion of three of the allowances in the basic amount of the minimum income. Although we have heard a little bit of a different view of minimum wage in the debates, which is, of course, also in economic theory, at least in three, if we look at a neoclassical model, a Kenyan or standard economic theory that treats this category differently and its impact on the economy. So it's not strange and it's good to hear in the National Assembly by the parliamentary groups different views on this, including this diversification of economic theories, which is right. Perhaps I would just point out when we say this that I do not agree and share the view that it is necessary and that the right path is always to highlight the conflict between work and capital. Absolutely latently, this conflict between work and capital always exists in every society. However, it is also the role of the National Assembly, and in particular, as some of you have made very clear, the quality of social dialogue, which is therefore in the country, in society as a whole, to go beyond this conflict. The exacerbation of conflict between political parties or others, certainly for the economic system of creating conflicts between work and capital, ultimately leads us all to draw short. I would not want this debate about the competition, what we will eliminate, what else would be necessary. The fact is, as I have pointed out, I would personally much more like to have this change agreed upon in the social dialogue. Unfortunately, it has not been possible, but I believe and I hope that in spirit, after so many years, we will be able to sign a social agreement that this is not the end of a social agreement. Regardless of the fact that I always make it very clear that there is certainly more equitable support for the regulation of minimum wage, this is also a slap for all of us who participate in social dialogue, if I say so. This is a fact and I understand citizens and citizens, I understand all workers and workers, but it is none of their business. We should make a deal, and we didn't. This taste is still a little bitter. Why? Because I believe that trust builds through dialogue, creating a conflict between capital and long-term work absolutely cannot be a solution to the crisis in which we are, not an economic one, but also a crisis of values, not just values, especially ways of cooperating and acting in our own country. As for the issue of labour costs, the Government, through the establishment of a working group, will be led by the competent minister, the Minister of Finance, including the Ministry of Labour, and will carry out analyses. As Mr Tonin has pointed out, of course, it means reducing the downturn somewhere on the other side. And here inside, I will say, my personal view is that when we talk about reducing contributions, it is necessary to know that our social security systems, which are the foundation of the social state, are based on intergenerational solidarity and, above all, on the system that is deserved. So, as much as I pay, that's what I get. When we reduce our contributions, this means that we are also de facto reducing our rights within the system. It is therefore necessary to know in this reduction and in this speech on social contributions that the reduction to the transfer of the country, so that we will pay less people with contributions, and that the country will make 400 million or more, here we are talking about the principal starting points, more contributions, which means that more attempts will be made later in the crisis, that the amount of pensions will be reduced, especially those that do not have the basis for paid contributions. This is some story we know, and it was always open several times during the crisis. When we talk about contributions, let us not forget that this is different from paying taxes. The contribution is my future right. Therefore, at least I would be personal, because, as Minister of Labour, I am responsible for social security systems to seek a solution in the income treatment. Directly in Slovenia is one of the most progressive income treatments. But there'll be room for that. We'll talk about it. The solutions are different and have certain consequences for each other, but today I am really pleased to hear the different possible views on the matter, and I believe that in dialogue we will find the best possible common solution in this way when everyone is trying to find their own solution, because the country in particular needs common solutions. And today, this debate, I hope that five hours in such an atmosphere as it has begun, I am pleased to take part in such a debate, and I would also like to have such expert discussions on other proposals of marriage, not mainly about left and right and accounting, but that we are finally looking for solutions for citizens and citizens.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u27	The text is by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, to be prepared by Dr. Låszlň Göncz and Mr. Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you. All those who follow this debate! Given that Slovenia is a part of a developed Europe, I am surprised that we do not have these issues already settled, namely that these supplements are somehow in minimum wage and are not as in developing Europe outside this minimum wage. I would point out one segment, what the minister said was good at this plurality of views. Some of these econometric models may be forgotten, however, that the pressure on salaries by the State or by employers is inevitably affecting the worker. What does a worker do? The research we do across Europe with colleagues from similar institutes, where I worked, suggests that the worker is fleeing to the informal economy and is fleeing to illegal markets. So, what colleague Tonin said we would start consumption, maybe yes, only on which market the worker will go – legal or illegal, cybernetic and so on, there is no tax pay. There are productions on the illegal market. This won't start the economy. As we look at the situation that is currently taking place in most developed countries, we see that informal economic models are increasingly prevalent in companies. Self-employment, work in a number of companies to combine those eight hours, then work at home, all of these are forms that point more and more to what we describe with the informal economy. We're going to some pre-ford production model where a person's human being and he's impersonal and he's like a robot, he works in the sense of who's working. Once again, I would like to point out that we have in mind whole areas of cities in the developed countries of Europe, where people are employed in the informal economy, do not pay taxes, do not have any insurance, do not have health care, do not have anything. And this informal economy means competition in the formal economy. This means that less and less profits are going to the state through taxes and more and more businesses find that they have competition in illegal markets. Therefore, entrepreneurs must also be aware that if they put pressure on workers, they will inevitably escape to an illegal market and thus the whole workforce will move to an illegal market and generate its revenues there. This will be competition, which is growing in some countries. And that is what we must be aware of in all these calculations and predictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u29	The text is by Dr László Göncz, to be prepared by Mr Saša Tabaković and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Porotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! Although I did not do so among the views of the parliamentary groups, I now stress that we will also support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Minimum Wages Act. I estimate that as long as comprehensive systemic solutions are not in the sense indicated or desired by the Minister, and also by all those who have spoken so far, the least we can do is to make the most vulnerable groups, and that is undoubtedly the most vulnerable group to which this law applies, to solve those problems that are undoubtedly extremely difficult for them. In the situation as some of you have already mentioned, when there is still a great deal of abuse in the labour market and society at large, there are many such content and issues where it is rather necessary to tighten the belt, as is the case with minimum wage. Here we simply can no longer lower this level as has been said. Above all, we should pick it up as soon as possible. But once again, until this comprehensive system solution is gone, that's the minimum we have to do. For me, solving the whole level of some pay grade, including minimum wage, I'll say, some horizontal. But night work, Sunday work, and the holiday work was vertical in this case. We should not even mix these concepts from this point of view. As I have already pointed out, my support is clear. Unfortunately, I also note that there has not been a social dialogue on this issue, which is undoubtedly a poor road map for the next negotiations and agreements and substantive solutions. But let us be surprised because, on the other hand, the fact that if we do not make our economy even more competitive is the fact that the chain mentioned earlier by Mr Dobovšek and others will also create a gap. To avoid rhetorical delay in advertising, the first reading is supported by this law and, of course, by further procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u31	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues! From the beginning, when it was announced that trade unions would be collecting signatures for the submission of the proposal, we in the SMC Group responded by stating that agreement on the proposal must be reached at the level of the Economic and Social Council in a constructive spirit of both sides and that both employers and trade unions will have to sit at the table and agree. We did this because we believe in the tradition of social partnership because we believe in the Institute of Autonomy of both sides, i.e. employers and unions, and that, in fact, because of this Institute of Autonomousity, both partners were established and paid well. I'm afraid that didn't happen. The signatures have been gathered, the proposal has been tabled, and we are also discussing it at the regular plenary session today at the initiative of the SMC Group. This means that we have taken care of those who are and are in fact the most vulnerable in this story, that is, workers, we have taken over not only the SMC Group of Members, but in fact all Members. The definition of minimum wage is that the minimum wage by law is set at the lowest possible full-time payment that the worker receives on his own account. Regrettably, the interpretation of this legal provision was born in the way that some employers paid the allowances in addition to the minimum wage, and some included these supplements in the salary itself. Such a practice is, of course, unfair. First time. It is unfair to workers who receive a minimum wage and are in an unequal position for the same work. Another time. She's unfair to the employers themselves. There is no common understanding of how the Minimum Wage Act should be implemented in practice. This means that employers are also not in an equal position. In the light of this content, of course, we in the SMC Group have decided and we wanted an agreement to take place because such an agreement would, of course, be in favour of both parties. Unfortunately, our appeals were not heard or understood. The fact is that understanding the concept of minimum wage at European Union level is perfectly clear. The allowances that we are considering today, i.e. night work allowances, working on Sundays, working on holidays and working off days, are, by law, exempt from the minimum wage in all Member States of the European Union with the exception of Croatia. Such a way of interpreting minimum wages as proposed by the unions is not a unique but almost a rule. If I look from a more socially sensitive point of view, it should be stressed that the concept of minimum wage came from an intergenerational consensus that work is a value. But work can be of value only when it is possible for an individual to earn a decent life under the same conditions as other individuals. I think that this understanding is also what is expected of Members and governments in view of the electoral result which has shown us a certain degree of confidence. Why am I saying this? The Institute of Minimum Wage was introduced in 1995, from 2008 to today the minimum wage grew by about 30% real, which is not bad data. So today, as we've already heard, it's about 604 euros net. However, it needs to be stressed that this is still somehow on the line with the poverty threshold of €593 net, which is particularly a problem for a single-member household. In this way work as a value cannot be. At the same time, it is essential that the level of wages is always crucial to the productivity of the economy. If we want higher wages in general, the economy must also be in some measurable condition, and the SMC has already communicated to the public in its consideration of the proposal itself, that we have not forgotten the economic sector and that we must strive to promote the competitiveness of the economy, because it is the one that keeps this global world, which we are part of, we cannot, past it, have jobs. There's something else I'd like to add. Of course, I agree with the Minister, today we are not just talking about the concept of minimum wage, we are really talking about a lot more today. We talk about what kind of society we want to live in, how we understand the prosperity of us, how we understand the prosperity of our craftsmen. On the one hand, we do not want employers to play legislation at the expense of workers, and on the other hand we do not want union selfishness. I am speaking in particular about the need to understand and to ask what culture of business or business environment we want. The fact is, once we have managed to eliminate certain significant practices on both sides, it is only then that we can talk about social freedom. Here, we can do our part in legislation, the rest we will have to do by people, so that we will understand and respect legislation at some ethical level. I believe and, of course, I strongly hope that we will succeed, and therefore, in the light of this proposal, I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u33	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany and Marjan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am also pleased that today we are finally discussing this subject of the law amending and supplementing the minimum wage law. Because what has happened in our country, or is still happening, is that workers who receive a minimum wage do not receive an allowance for unpleasant work, it is night work, working on Sundays and working off days after marriage, it seems very discriminatory to me, and it is high time to arrange it. I am also very surprised by the fact that judicial practice has allowed for a different interpretation of this. I believe that working under unfavourable conditions must in any case be defined as a special job and therefore the worker must be given a visa of the worker who works under more favourable conditions, saying that at the time when a worker can sleep at night, he must receive a special wage or reward for this. We have also heard today that in the European Union, except Croatia, all countries and, of course, except Slovenia, because we have not yet regulated this, they have this supplement as a special supplement to the minimum wage defined in the law. The minimum wage, which is €541.66 per hour per month net or gross €4.5 per hour in Slovenia, for comparison, in Germany workers receive a gross of €8.5 per hour, is, of course, very low, so low that workers cannot afford to survive and actually degrade and discriminate against them. The amendment of the law therefore introduces this allowance for night work, Sunday and holiday work, which workers are expected to receive as an addition to the minimum wage. Such a solution is necessary and I wonder how it took so long for this issue to finally be on the agenda of the National Assembly. The fact is, workers for minimum wage are the most vulnerable group of workers and have been wronged for years. With full-time work, workers receive such a modest salary that, as I said before, they are practically unable to survive with dignity and that this salary does not guarantee survival for these workers, not for those who have families, children, or an unemployed spouse. I am taking part in the opinion expressed today by the distinguished colleague Uroš Prikl, who estimated that the minimum wage for the decent survival of the family should be 1,000 euros. It is!Yes, and I also join this opinion that some entrepreneurs are abnormally rich and do not give the worker the right payment for their honest work. That is why, of course, I will gladly support this change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u35	Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you, President. Dear Minister! For honest work, a fair payment, one that will guarantee a decent life that will even make it possible to survive. This should not only be a right, but above all the responsibility and responsibility of the employer, politics, unions and all employees. All the most important international human rights instruments as one of the fundamental social rights also include the right to a minimum wage that guarantees workers a decent life. Today's debate shows that we are all aware of this. Credit goes also to union representatives, with one warning that I hope employers will be aware of this. In times in which we live primarily in these global, economic uncertainties, when we have solved the crisis primarily by willing or reluctantly strengthening capital, it is time to strengthen people to strengthen what we live for, to strengthen us in particular, because we are people for what we have to fight for here in the National Assembly. Most labour and trade union rights have been fought, many have already been lost, so everything has to be done to keep the existing level at the very least and do everything possible to strengthen these rights. Social Democrats within the Government take this right to strengthen the social dimension that strengthens people in times of relatively better economic indicators. Therefore, we constantly point out that, with this growth, we will not only strengthen capital but, above all, people. It is therefore essential that we strengthen the ideas and policies that respect work, underline the social partnership, demand respect for labour rights, fight unemployment and the fair value of work. They stress the importance of solidarity and social justice, equality in the use of fundamental social goods. We seek righteousness, we strengthen justice. The minimum wage is intended to protect the social and material security of employees. We can't forget that. Today there was a talk about the technical aspect. We are not strengthening the minimum income in this respect, but we are primarily regulating it, making it fairer and, in some ways, predicting changes mainly in the income field, as the Minister has announced. The protection of the worst paid workers is needed, and this is what we are talking about today. Reducing wage and income inequality, reducing wage discrimination, reducing poverty among working families, at the same time possible consequences, and investment, consumption, economic growth and public finances. We're strengthening people, and we're not just strengthening capital. Today is at least the day after the debate, according to some way, politics is also aware that there is a time when people need to be strengthened, not capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u37	He has a word, Mr. Marijan Pojbich. Prepare yourself, Mrs Andreja Potočnik and Mr Benedict Kopmajer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have already said, in the position of the Group of Members, that I will support this law today, because I think that this is one small stone in some more just solutions than it has ever been. However, when I hear a minimum wage, I must say that I am always very sad and disappointed, because I simply cannot understand that we are always talking about living in a developed democratic country and on the other hand we have more than a third of the people on a minimum wage. And it is on a wage that is not worthy of anyone, on a wage from which it is not possible to live, nor to die. I am convinced that our only true path and goal is to create better conditions for the economy, for economic development, to create jobs with higher added value and thus break this balance and, on the one hand, to reduce people to minimum wages and to increase people who, for their work done honestly for full-time work, will receive a decent payment, such a payment that they can survive themselves and their families. I think that this is what we must pursue, and that this is what each of us sitting here should strive for. But, Your Honor, in the last two days, I must say, or I've been in shock for three days. Excesses in the area of collecting tax money in private pockets through such and other advisory contracts – this is amazing. On the one hand, we are talking and we are trying to draw some small things to the minimum wage, and on the other hand, we have such excesses that I will now say two, three sentences about because it seems fair to you sitting here and to the people who are listening. If we do so in the future and this will not end, we will be talking about the minimum wage for the next hundred years. Ladies and gentlemen, have any of you read this yesterday or the day before in Finance? Everyone would do well to read this: Counsellor for a million euros in the New Ljubljana Bank, the dream business of Draga Kos. In one year, since his employment there, he has received €765,000! 218 euros an hour! And this in a company or bank that we also recapitalized a year ago with the money of those taxpayers who are on minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, is this admissible?Oh, my God! I call on the coalition, I call on all honest Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly to come together and really cut it off, because this is a big deal. At the same time, I call on the President of the Government to put the state, as owner of these companies, on top of that. That some dedicated people can earn almost €800,000 in one year, while others work for €500,600, that is, for a minimum wage! And it has 218 euros an hour, that is almost half the minimum wage of one individual, respected ladies and gentlemen! And look, I've calculated and come up with the following data: out of the 765 thousand that Mr Kos received in one year, we could pay a thousand 275 minimum wages; we could also pay 2 000 833 social aids. And we could pay 294 thousand 230 elementary school or student lunches. I don't understand, I really don't understand what kind of person, what capacity and quality he has to have to earn EUR 218 an hour! And this is the taxpayer's money, the money of those people who are paying into our state budget. And nothing happens. Dear friends, look, read the case a few days ago, Polzel, who was recapitalized by the state, because I think these are things that everyone needs to know. Mrs Carmen Dvorjak, who was employed there, had a gross salary of EUR 6 000 800 by March 2014, when she started paying her allowances, between EUR 7 000 500 and EUR 11 000 200 gross. In 15 months, Dvorjak's report for the preparation of the restructuring plan, which was its work in one way or another, paid another 22 000 euros of gross additional money. We have also discovered that she has also paid EUR 27,000 gross awards for the supervision of subsidiaries, which is contrary to the rules. However, she received another EUR 52 000. My dear fellows and colleagues, look, I hope we understand each other here. I'm not saying who's in which party, I'm saying it's unacceptable. Unacceptable! I'm not talking about political affiliation now. I'm talking about excesses that can't happen that need to be cut. On the one hand, we are talking about a few euro raises in minimum wage, and on the other hand we are talking about such extraordinary stories. Why am I warning you this? I am warning because this money is coming from the state budget. From the budget to which citizens and citizens are paid, including those on minimum wages. This is a problem we need to be aware of together. And that now we do not push our heads into the sand, but that all that I have just said goes beyond the coalition, the government and all those of us who can influence such things and protect the taxpayer's money to deal with it in a truly economic way. If we don't do it and cut it, believe me, like I said, we'll have more people on minimum wage every year for a hundred years. What kind of democratic society are we? What kind of fair and just society are we if we already have over 30% of the people on minimum wage? What exactly is going on in this society? We need to ask ourselves how much of us is responsible for the situation. And you, dear colleagues, especially here I call on the SMC, now you have exercise in your hands. In this case, you will always have our help when it comes to righteous solutions. Please warn the President of the Government that these stories come to his fingertips through the appropriate authorities. When I was looking at these experiments, I didn't realize anywhere that anyone who was overseeing these companies would be responsible for anything. My dear colleagues and colleagues, how long are we going to recapitalize banks in such a way that bank people will carry what they wear through advisory contracts? How much longer? There is no difference here between me as an SDS Member and Member of Desus or SMC, and so on. We all have the same responsibility in this situation. So far, it's the coalition that's taking responsibility for running the country. The foundations, which were also constantly exposed in the electoral campaign, were: a just, legal and fair society. Is there a just, fair and fair society for you where a person can make almost a million a year? Is it fair society that a person can earn an hour of EUR 218? How much you earn per hour sitting here in Parliament, ask yourself, and you will see. Ask them how much they make people working in the cafeteria in our National Assembly. Ask them how much they make per hour. Please, let's really get together for once and let's just say it's over! Otherwise, we'll have 40% of the people on minimum wage next year. For me, it's not the social state, I say it again, it's not the social one that shares social assistance. It is for me that the social state provides, through its responsible task, conditions that can develop the economy, open jobs and that people are paid so that they can survive themselves and their family and their loved ones with what they have grown. Ladies and gentlemen! I apologize for simply extending the debate on this matter a little bit, but I think it is extremely important that things are still connected. This money taken from these gentlemen from the state budget is called, directly, could be invested in the economy, could be invested in new projects, such as creating higher added value. And at that point, people, if they have higher added value, will also have higher wages and so on. You know exactly what I mean. And this money needs to be re-analysed slowly. Apparently, there's enough money in our society. The only problem is that we have, on the one hand, those who are in the majority and living lives, the same goes for the pensioners who have 200, 300, 400 euros in pensions there. Now I had the opportunity because I helped one lady with something that has a working age of about €500 in retirement for forty years. And in conditions that were catastrophic — high temperatures, high dust, nightly, Sunday, holiday. The lady is tired that she can't even walk anymore, and that's what she's earned in the '40s. And then such gentlemen of privilege steal everything that's possible, so logically, there's nothing left for such people. Is this a fair, fair and responsible and legal system? Is this a society where we can talk about democracy? Is this a society where we can say that the rule of law and justice applies? No, ma'am and gentlemen, it's not. And I'll tell you again, I don't care who's in which party. People who do such or other things must face justice and also be held accountable for their misdeeds. But this is the mission of all of us sitting here. Above all, the judicial branches of power, governments and coalitions. You will have votes from the Slovenian Democratic Party whenever you bring a solution and decisions to the National Assembly, which will be written to the detriment of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, they will be fair, just, responsible. I think I've explained a few things today and I've publicly asked you to come together and really call it the end. And, of course, I expect this from the coalition, the opposition's voices, as far as the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned, you will always have these projects. Please come with legislation to Parliament, which will enable a better economic environment, please come again. Not just how we're going to give something, how we're going to share something. If we don't create any more, we won't have anything to share. A healthy farmer's mind, you don't need to be smart, you don't need to be educated, you don't need to have any doctorate, that's what the farmer, in a positive sense, in Slovenian Gore, Haloza, in Primorsk, Dolenjska, will tell you. If we stick to this, believe me, we can take this country without any problem on the road that everyone should want together. I really expect from all of you who are here today to participate in this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare Mr Benedict Kopmajer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let me once again, since it has been said many times today, I stress that work must be of value. Work without allowing you just some existence, work actually allows you to have everyday social contacts, work as a person improves your work, and not least, when you do it well, it also gives you a lot of satisfaction. And there are many other aspects to your work. Therefore, I think it is all the more important that we all strive to enable everyone to actually make their own work a decent life. I support and support the proposal to exempt night, Sunday and holiday work from minimum wage because it is not fair for someone who works on Sundays, holidays, night work to end up getting the same pay. At the same time, we must not forget the very competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, which also operates on the global market. There is always, unfortunately, an important price in addition to quality. I agree that, together with redefining this minimum wage, the competitiveness of employers is also encouraged. Because we need to be balanced on both sides. Last but not least, the economy provides more jobs, last but not least pays these salaries and needs an encouraging competitive environment provided by the state. Once again, work likes to be a value, so it is not right for people to get the same pay for unequal work. Pay must be fair, fair, and dignified. I am pleased that Minister Restoring said in response to my question that he is preparing a proposal that will allow for the sharing of profits among the most successful workers. It is said that we are rewarding, thereby allowing a partial unloading, what we are talking about today, that we must also take care of the economy in all this. In the SMC Group, we are committed to exempting the allowances from the minimum wage, but we need to ensure that – here, we will be extremely constructively involved by SMC Members – and to ask ourselves about the costs of work, tax measures, social insurance contributions, the burden of work income, and, last but not least, we need to cooperate or provide less administrative obstacles to the economy. Only in this way will this proposal achieve its objective, but not as the speaker has already said before me, that we are only raising minimum wage, we are not raising minimum wage with this proposal, but we are only doing redefinition. We have to make sure that the economic sector can pay for this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer has the floor to prepare Mrs Urška Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u42	Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, union representatives, colleagues and colleagues! 11 000 206 citizens and the satisfaction of seven union centres are monitoring an action to amend the minimum wage law in early September. Today's amended definition of minimum wage will make it possible for almost 50,000 employees with minimum wage to bring an additional payment for night, Sunday and holiday work by the new year. This is to be done at the so-called "unfavourable working time" for all employees, only workers with a minimum wage. That this is unfair, the unions have claimed for years, and I have been joining them in this part. Will higher labour costs reduce employers' competitiveness? The Association of Employers of Slovenia does not agree to an increase in the minimum wage beyond the economy and they say that trade unions deny social dialogue and violate the social agreement that has been concluded, and they break the established pay systems and models to bring this balance sheet to the companies, while in many cases a linear increase in wages or at least pressure to raise wages. Really? True, it may not be fair — but what is the alternative? It should also be made clear that the additions in some activities account for up to 12 % of the labour costs. If the costs of working in certain companies as a result of the so-called elimination of injustices rise by 12% and these companies lose their jobs, will the incompetent managers again be guilty? Let us also say that in the public sector, it also receives a minimum of 9 000 300 workers. This cost the state €8 million, after the adoption of the amendment, it will have to add at least a million more 300, as more than a thousand eligible civil servants will pay the minimum wage. We are not talking about small amounts, but about the millions that must be provided both from the budget for public servants and from employers' income. If these amounts currently raise pressure and temperature in the economy, on the other hand, the government's announcements, which predicts a package of legislative changes that will preserve the competitiveness of the economy, are at rest. At the same time, however, we must not forget that the allocation of allowances will have a positive impact on the inflows to the State budget and on monetary social security, as the bases for the payment of contributions and taxes will increase. A fair payment for honest work has already been made in this hall today, and I am joining in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor. Get Mrs. Marusha Skopac ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u44	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Well, hello, everyone present at the meeting today! Today, in the National Assembly, we are again discussing a subject on which we can have different views and, somehow, at the time of this meeting of the National Assembly, it has turned back into a certain Gordis knot. On the one hand, we have employers who are threatening to withdraw from a difficult negotiated social agreement and who point out the denial of social dialogue and the non-compliance with the signed minimum wage convention, on the other hand, trade unions which, by signatures of citizens outside the escape route of social dialogue, refer to the redefinition of minimum wage. The very call of citizens to evaluate the situation of the work actually done, i.e. the night, holiday, Sunday, which should be more, is certainly just or morally undisputedly justified. At this principle level alone, I do not want to attach either sides or sides, but I understand both aspects or both. I understand employers who point out that the minimum wage has been growing relatively rapidly for a number of years, that wage growth by increasing labour productivity in most other EU Member States has been lower than in Slovenia and that we have high labour costs and that our competitiveness is falling. On the other hand, I also understand the trade unions that have chosen this path, which they are, because this is not the subject of a social agreement. Perhaps first, to begin with a few words about minimum wage, what it is, what is the key idea of minimum wage. The key idea of the minimum wage is that this should be the lower income limit, which would still allow a relatively decent survival for the employee. The concept of minimum wage itself is not linked to labour performance, employee efficiency, productivity, the results of the company, but to income that is supposed to provide a certain minimum socially acceptable level of consumption for an employed person. The Minimum Wages Act states that this depends on inflation, other wages, unemployment and economic growth, it is said that the minimum wage depends on national economic aggregates which have nothing to do with the situation in the company itself but on the working time of the employees. Therefore, in a way, I am saddened that the current legislation allows for different interpretations of the payment. Thus, some employers paid the allowances inside, others outside the minimum wage. Therefore, the current definition of minimum wage allows for work-related allowances to be considered as a minimum wage on Sunday, at night, during holidays, rather than as an addition to the minimum wage. In these cases it is the most vulnerable group of workers who receive a minimum wage and put them in an uneven position. Workers may receive the same payment for the same work under different working conditions. Such an arrangement is not fair to employers and, as it were, not workers. Here is a key issue of social justice for me. We can all ask ourselves whether it is fair that workers who work in these unfavourable working conditions are paid in the same way as those who spend that time with their families, for example, and despite working in these unfavourable working relationships with all the supplements somehow reach a minimum wage. Such an arrangement is certainly unfair. The work must be evaluated differently in the light of the circumstances of the work, which means that those who work in difficult situations deserve higher pay or deserve these supplements to work in unfavourable conditions. But it's a deal with the employers. However, it is right that the law explicitly provides for a minimum wage. Such an arrangement seems to me to be a fair system of employment. Since I respect this concept of social justice itself, I would like to see workers and employers treated fairly in Slovenia, and I also support this proposal for a minimum wage redefinition. But on the other hand, I am also aware of these facts, which I have said, that in some way in this proposal to exclude supplements from the minimum wage is somehow also about raising them. Although the proposal, as I said, is morally justified, fair, this will in practice mean that there will be an increase in minimum wages at least for certain undertakings or sectors that are more dependent on working outside the regular worker. This means increasing labour costs and cost pressure on competitiveness. Therefore, I believe that, together with this bill, it is necessary and urgent to take measures to preserve the competitiveness of employers, as this is a condition for maintaining jobs. I believe that more value-added jobs should also be burdened. These are driving jobs, which are the vehicle of development and, as a result, enable lower value added jobs. In this package, employers should be offered more flexible employment, a better business environment and a reduction of administrative barriers. It is also necessary to support the possibility of workers participating in the distribution of employers’ profits under more favourable conditions. In order to achieve this tax burden, it is also necessary to partially increase the capital burden of profits, as we are in international comparisons between the lowest burdens. Finally, let me say that I have no problem with this support alone. I support this proposal at this stage of consideration, because, as I have said, it is morally justified and fair that, at the same time as this proposal, we should also consider measures to preserve competitiveness. For this reason, I expect the Government to consider the package of laws together with this proposal on minimum wage in the next stages of the consideration of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Marinka Levicar ready. Here you go, Mrs. Skopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we share the opinion of the proposers that today's proposal for a law that excludes payment of allowances under the definition of minimum wage creates a fairer treatment of workers. We also agree that the current injustice that workers working at night have to be eliminated between holidays and weekends as well as those who do not work at the time. But in doing so, we warn that we must legitimize this justice with all due care so that we do not cause new inequalities by eliminating one inequality. And just to hear different opinions, views and views, we have advocated a general debate in the National Assembly as quickly as possible. Let's take a look at some statistical facts. In 2009, the minimum wage was EUR 597.43 and at that time only 6 wage classes were paid. In 2015, the minimum wage amounts to €790.73 and reaches almost the 16th pay grade. If we look at the statistics on real wage growth from 2000 to 2013, we find that the largest increase in minimum wage occurred in 2010 when they rose by 12,6 %. And since this largest increase in minimum wage was exactly the same as the economic crisis, this led to a sharp increase in wage growth between minimum and average wage growth. The growth of the minimum wage in 2013 has been much higher since the fourth consecutive year than the growth of the average gross wage. This has completely undermined the former minimum-average wage ratio, which increased from 40.3% in 2000 to 50.1% in 2013. Over the whole period of the crisis, between 2008 and 2013, minimum wage growth also exceeded productivity growth in private sector activities, creating pressure on the cost competitiveness of the economy. Slovenia, with one of the biggest economic downturns in the European Union at the time of the crisis, recorded the largest increase in the minimum wage, a real increase of 28.7% over the period. Since we are finally recording the second consecutive year of growth this year after many years of stagnation, there is a belief that the time has come to release various constraints and times of crisis. I believe that 2016 is a very difficult year for us, so we must be very careful and far-reaching so that we do not repeat the mistakes made in the past when we made the raise of the minimum wage just at the most inappropriate moment, which caused a longer and harder period of recession than the ones recorded by our neighbouring countries. As we support the redefining of the minimum wage in the Modern Centre Party Group, we will work with the Government in the preparation of a solution and a thoughtful package of tax reform, which will at the same time lead to a decommissioning of inequalities in workers' payments. At the very least, the unilateral redefinition of the minimum wage without appropriate accompanying measures leads to a decline in economic growth and economic stagnation. In doing so, of course, we expect the continuation of constructive social dialogue and the agreement of all the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President, and a very nice greeting to all of you on my behalf as well! I would first like to thank the representatives of the union and all those who have signed this criminal discriminatory regime in the pay law. I really have to say that I do not agree with this view alone that these workers are in an unequal position with those workers who also have a minimum wage, but do not work in bad working hours, i.e. at night, on Sundays, at holidays, but are in a discriminatory position to all employees, including those who have higher wages, but still get work allowances in bad working hours. So it's really a lot of discrimination, a lot of discrimination. And I'm surprised these workers haven't even asked for any judicial protection. I'm pretty sure we could make it in front of the courts. However, since they are the lowest income workers, they do not even hope to go to court because they do not have enough money to survive with this minimum wage without these supplements. So it is time for this to be fixed as soon as possible, that these workers will at least get something more for more work, because on Sundays to work, on holidays, on night work hours, so they really deserve something more than just that mini mini salary offered by the legislation. On the one hand, I am surprised, too, that the government has not changed that definition by now. They explain that they were not satisfied with the social partners and that this did not take into account the social agreement between the social partners. Well, it's not like that now. Social partners or employers are still not satisfied with this arrangement and oppose it. However, I am very pleased that we are Members of such a unified opinion, of all the Members' groups, regardless of their political orientation, and this proposal will be adopted. I was sad when I read this material, that there were also many workers in public administration who were deprived. I do not think that around a thousand 800 workers working in public administration are getting these supplements for bad working hours. As I understood from the material I have read, this could be obtained because it is essentially just an interpretation of these legal provisions. However, the state has so much money that it can also pay those workers for unfavourable working hours, for work on Sundays, for drivers, if they may be on the lowest salary, or for those who are on the lowest salary, to give them an allowance for this work during an unfavourable working time. I'm also surprised at the OECD position on page 6. They warn that the minimum wage according to the average wage in Slovenia according to OECD standards is high, too high to be reduced. I don't understand where these people live. The average wage in Slovenia is already low in one way or another, but it may be higher due to those average wages that now bind to the average, which is relatively low in Slovenia, compared to the developed European countries. Now this requirement is that the minimum wage is too high, it seems unacceptable to me, and I hope that our country will not listen to it. I have another question for the Ministry of Labour or specifically for the Minister, who is 11. 2. 2015 stated that, in preparing the new tax reform, they would insist that net wages would rise due to different tax burdens. Thus, she said that there would be more gross wages for employees and that this should be adopted by the end of this year, that is, by the end of 2015. In this regard, I am interested in how far they are now with this desire or initiative to be realized. It is high time we put an end to this discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Chimenka ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you. Today we are talking about the redefinition of a minimum wage, such a change in definition that would no longer allow one segment of workers to actually be used twice – on the one hand, compared to workers working in some sectors where different interpretation of wages has been taken into account, they receive lower wages than those, although they are all supposed to receive minimum wages, and they are also in an unequal position towards those workers who earn more than minimum wages. All those I have listed now have these allowances for a bad working time if they work at night, on holidays and Sundays, paid separately, are said to be above the amount of minimum wage. Unfortunately, in some activities, the social partners have signed and agreed to such collective agreements, which have allowed such awards and have agreed that the basic salary is lower than the minimum wage, and workers receive a minimum wage only after all these allowances are charged. Of course, such content, such a modified definition, I think it is a real step towards justice and equality before the law. Such content is also the right step to keep work valuable and to make every employee earning a decent life for themselves and for their family. It's not like that now. The poverty line is 593 euros and the minimum wage is poor 600 euros. Even if both parents earn a minimum wage, they cannot prevent their families from being threatened with poverty if they have two children. This information speaks for itself. Such a modified definition, the amended concept of minimum wage, would therefore allow the impact of economic growth to start to decline more rapidly so that the level of risk of poverty could begin to decline gradually. Last year, there were 290,000 people living below the poverty threshold, 410 thousand on the brink of social exclusion. So this could be one of the shock absorbers for the most vulnerable groups of people. I am convinced that the power of society is measured by how capable it is to care for the most vulnerable and not how capable it is of caring for the elites. I believe that such a change in the definition of minimum wage in the wider picture of what is happening in our economic development can also be put in place in a timely manner when I am recording economic growth in the second year in a row and that it will have the effect that we want it to have. Here I am thinking about the impact, the competitiveness and the cost of work and the appropriate measures in this regard. At the same time, I would like to stress, as the Minister for Labour and the Family has pointed out earlier, that there is a real need for constructive social dialogue and consensus between the social partners on the issue of the definition and the level of minimum wage. Unfortunately, they didn't make it. That's how we got a backpack of unspoken in the Economic and Social Council in the National Assembly. Such a social dialogue, I am convinced that it leads to a more social functioning of the social partners, a more humane working environment and a better business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the distinguished representative of the Ministry! Today we see a change in the Minimum Wage Act and, like many here before us, I will also come out of righteousness. Although it seems to me that this justice has not always been properly used here today; but, however, purely for all employees, it is always important that they are treated fairly, that is, both in terms of payment and around all the other benefits they have, such as education and the like. Why is that important? Because it has a very strong impact on employee motivation, on how they are committed to work, and directly this has a direct impact on their effectiveness, which is important for each organisation. In this case, it is right to stress – it has been highlighted, but from some discussions perhaps someone who has switched to this channel in the meantime thought we were talking about raising the minimum wage. We are not talking about raising the minimum wage, we are just talking about admitting certain supplements to those on the minimum wage: night work allowances, Sundays and holidays. Indeed, they are treated equally to those who can pay only a few euros above the minimum wage and then receive these supplements. This is really about injustice, and I also agree that this injustice must be eliminated. As far as the budget implications are concerned. Somehow this proposalr's assessment doesn't seem right to me. The proposer estimates 660 000 euros. This is an estimate for a little less than a thousand 800 public servants, and here it is completely forgotten about that, and I will say, more importantly, this is our economy. What will this change actually bring them? However, I would ask the Ministry to obtain this data and to supplement it accordingly, because it is bound to have a budgetary impact here, and this information – I think this number is very wrong. Given that we are talking about some economic growth, we have economic growth, which I am, in fact, extremely happy about. However, we must not forget why we have economic growth in Slovenia. I can't get past this, beyond this more economic aspect. Key, which is highlighted for 2014, this year and beyond – exports. If we just look at a small current situation, including this migration crisis, this, I will say, almost as much as closing borders – what does this mean for our companies; those who are export-oriented, who have actually contributed most to our economic growth? Someone who has a contract to supply "just and thus" cannot obtain – what losses will this suffer? Why am I saying this? Because this will have an impact on our economic growth and I fear that our government services have not taken this into account in their forecasts, although this is not a topic that would have come to us yesterday, but it is very topical in the last year. The second is the drawdown of European funds, which was very good last year and this year due to the conclusion of the old financial perspective. We can't promise ourselves much more here, either. Some data are encouraging, and the number of unemployed is declining; of course, we do not know how many young people, especially young people, have gone to work across the border. The ones we're from at the end of Styrian are aware that this number isn't that small. However, we must not forget that, given the period before the crisis, we have lost 50,000 to 60,000 jobs. Only when citizens and citizens feel that the actual situation is changing can they say that there is something better here. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that we do not forget our economy, which will still have a slight impact on this change. I would say, at least the very explanation in the marriage should be correct, and this factor should also be taken into account. I am truly in favour of eliminating all injustices or injustices, including those we are talking about today. But I also ask myself, what are these cases, when two people work for a minimum wage, have a family, say, two children, on the other hand, we have two people who are unemployed, on social transfers, and when they draw the line a month, they are basically the same. Yesterday I heard an example of a congregation that was actually fortunate enough to have more jobs than the number of people. When they offered some job opportunities through public works, they did not receive applications from their own congregation and then hired people from the neighboring congregation. However, they still have 8% unemployment. I think that our justice, which is so full of our mouths, should be viewed here today from this point of view, and we should also do something in this ministry to change these injustices in fact. I'll be back on the farm a little longer. However, only if our economy works, as it must, will the pensioners have enough, and we all who are essentially public servants; we will have enough for education, health and everything else, so we must not forget this. But if we look at what has been done for our economy in one year — not a single measure! Tax checkouts will come in, which will add to the burden. What about the tax burden? There's been some talk about it, we don't have any of it in the National Assembly. However, when we talk about the number of people on minimum wages, if we look at the private sector, the number of these people is decreasing, which means, in companies, I will say, owners, managers are willing to pay their employees well, they want to pay them well, but they also want to pay less. It would be wise to do more than that, for we will also do enough for this righteousness. I am in favour of this injustice being removed, but it is only right that we are aware here of all others and in other areas of what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the fact that the minimum wage is low is that even with the help of a minimum wage, many people find it difficult to end up at the end of the month. The second fact is that we are not even talking about raising the minimum wage today. Another fact is that the very change in the definition of minimum wage will therefore not make it easier for people to live and survive better each month. In spite of all this, I regret, of course, that there has not been an agreement on the Economic and Social Council that this would have been adopted long ago. If, on the one hand, I can understand employers' concerns about the huge decline in GDP at the time of the economic crisis, that the economy has not recovered at that time, that many businesses have gone bankrupt, and that there are many reasons within our country that the economy is failing to recover more than perhaps in some other countries, yet I think that a certain measure of understanding by employers would also be needed, but that what we are talking about today is a new definition of minimum wage, which excludes night work, Sunday work, holiday work, only and only the elimination of one injustice, which should have been long ago removed and corrected. And that in addition to the level of wages, there are such injustices and misunderstandings, which in fact reduces the motivation of workers to do their work even more efficiently, knowingly, better, which is also a prerequisite for the success of businesses. Indeed, I do not know any good companies where workers would not be motivated to do their work in this way. At the same time, I am pleased that the Government has supported such a proposal. It would be very plausible to say that there was no agreement on the Economic and Social Council, given that we know that there are many proposals coming from the Government, which are completely at odds with or against the agreements and in some way more in agreement with the Economic and Social Council. In addition, of course, there is much more to the government. Indeed, it is necessary to ensure that the economy is better and that there is indeed a need for discussion on the subject of minimum wages, so much less. It is said that the competitive conditions for the economy, the removal of administrative barriers, are also an opportunity for investors who would open new jobs in different situations. It is said that the possibilities that the Government has in place to improve the situation of the economy are very large. Of course, this will have to be done as soon as possible. Maybe even that, as a doctor I did a lot of holidays, nights, many weeks, and at that time I never even thought about my colleagues not getting the same payment or at least the recognised payment and these supplements. Believe me, working in such situations is significantly different from working in a regular working day. That's why I'm going to be so much more pleased or that this union initiative is going to mean so much more to me than this small contribution to push the "yes" button when we also vote on this change in the definition of minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. When we talk about minimum wage, however, we might also point out that even in Slovenia in the last period there are increasing differences between the highest and lowest wages, and this is something that we must also carefully analyse and point out that we are far away from the relationship once possible, one to three, and that during this period we have even had severe trials, if I may say so, even with the ownership and often the exploitation of businesses, many people have agreed to the institution, to the very minimum remuneration, and there have been very few regular jobs. On this occasion, I would also like to draw particular attention to the fact that I am sure that lowering wages cannot in any way lead to more jobs being provided. The aim must be to provide as many jobs as possible. Indeed, the fact that lower wages do not lead to more jobs also shows the resolution of the economic and financial crisis that we have undertaken in Slovenia. So, wage cuts, people's tightening did not lead to more jobs, but on the contrary; gross domestic product fell, economic growth was falling, consumption was falling and people's standards fell, and jobs, we still see, far from what was possible before the financial crisis in Slovenia. In this light, in particular, I would like to point out the following fact that, first of all, congratulations must be given to anyone who can hire someone and that, above all, it is necessary to create a market situation or demand so that everyone who does something can sell it. To a large extent, the clearance of the minimum wage may also contribute to this by not including these contributions for an unfavourable working time for more demanding and difficult conditions in the minimum wage. Last but not least, we like to compare ourselves with Germany many times. In 2015, according to the text also written by the candidates, electorates and voters, it is clear that in 2015 Germany adopted the minimum wage itself and this minimum wage does not include unfavourable working hours and difficult working conditions. So, even in this case, it is right to compare ourselves with others, not only with high wages, but also with low wages. However, the fact is that economic growth in Slovenia has been high in recent years due to demand abroad. If we raise our demand at home, which we can do just by raising our minimum wage, because these people who receive minimum wage are spending at home, they don't have money to go out. And any such contribution to the minimum wage will also raise household consumption and thus gross domestic product, and raising gross domestic product is one that also creates new jobs. Thus, I think that this dialogue, which may also be needed in this law further with the economy, needs to clear up this aspect, as much as we will contribute to greater economic growth, thus increasing consumption, i.e. greater market opportunities for economies, and, finally, the creation of new jobs. I hope that this law will contribute a great deal to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Lai has the floor to prepare Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will certainly support the amendment of the minimum wage law, because I believe that this change is useful and very much necessary. It is necessary because it accurately defines what can be included as an addition to the minimum wage and what is not and that we will have comparable arrangements somewhere with the other members of the European Union, where our strategic market is also. Unfortunately, I must say what this amendment also proves that the Institute of Minimum Wages has been used many times in the past, and this has resulted in creating distortions of competition. That is to say, the one whose employer charged the wages by including these supplements in this amount was better than the one who did not hope or wanted to do so because he knew that he would be unfair to his worker. The minimum wage itself is a very important and sensitive economic and social category. For all investments, economic studies on economic eligibility shall be carried out before the decision to implement is taken, where the cost of employment or labour costs is important and important. Where are those options for a change in the size of a minimum wage? Surely, at this point, it would be very difficult to say that there are great opportunities, at least not in the economy, as studies show, that precisely the part of the economy and industry that generates the most exports or a significant proportion of exports is the processing industry, where the beneficiaries of the minimum wage are as much as 11,000. This is said to be very important in any intervention in this system regime in order to check the level of competitive sustainability, especially those sectors that generate the greatest growth of the social product. Finally, I would like to say that, in all that I have mentioned, we must not forget the fact that a satisfied worker is the key to a successful business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr Matej T. Vatovec has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Initially, I would like to make a general comment on those who question redefinition or the need for redefinition. If we go to look at purely statistical or numbers. The net amount of the minimum wage, we all know, depends on the tax relief that the worker enforces. At best, this is currently EUR 576. The poverty risk threshold, which was calculated for 2014, is EUR 523. So we already have this split here, which is pretty painful. In addition, we have a stagnation of wages in the economy and the average net salary has increased by only €45 over the last 5 years. All of this clearly shows that there is something to be done about it. Those who doubt redefinition, on the other hand, are also advocates of the so-called reduction of the workload for employers, which is, of course, the simplest and simplest neoliberal solution to this problem. For example, the main argument they have for this is that we have to protect our competitiveness. If we go to take a look, Slovenia is a proven cost-competitive country and its competitiveness is increasing. The evidence is that exports already exceeded the 2008 record in 2011 and that last year the surplus in the current balance of payments account was 7 % of GDP. This also clearly suggests Umar's EC forecast. If this is how we like to compare ourselves with our northern or western neighbours, let me just add that, compared to neighbouring countries, the wage burden in Slovenia is not high with taxes and contributions. The share of our contributions is 38.8% in our main example, as they like to point out, and Austria is 44.5%, for example 44.7% in Italy. What follows is some of the consequences; if instead of redefining the minimum wage or raising the minimum wage, they tried to achieve the same effect by reducing taxes and contributions, this would actually bring the social state to its knees. We all know that the taxation of work, as I have already said, consists of income, which at this time is socially just because it is progressive, and on the other hand social contributions, which are also relatively fair, because they are calculated on the basis of the basis; higher wages, higher social contributions. On the other hand, we have, of course, taxes on goods, VAT, excise duties, which are the same for all. Thus, if you are actually cutting on one side of this employer's contribution, this is essentially known to those who have higher wages, those who have lower wages will still have to spend their salary on spending more if compared. And this is a major example of a reduction in tax revenues achieved by lowering so-called labour costs. Such a mechanism would mean nothing but less for the social state. Less of these revenues in the budget and the immediate consequence of this should be the commercialisation of what is currently the only protector for those who are most pressed on the side of society, and these are social services. I am talking here about the commercialisation of health services, education and so on. Thus, by reducing or trying to increase the net income by reducing the workload, we would deliberately go to reconstruction or dispersion of the social state as such. I think that this is clear to everyone, and at this point there is no other solution than redefining the minimum wage at the first point, by achieving at least this minimum, which would guarantee some social security, but of course more important steps are needed, a tax reform that would of course be substantially more equitable in terms of taxation of precisely these labour burdens. In short, to conclude, if, in the manner suggested by colleagues who advocate this reduced workload, they would probably hit most of the workers who are already having difficulties with these revenues. Here we have a problem of social transfers, which is based on household incomes, on the other hand, social services. In order to reduce this, it would only result in the fact that this salary would in fact be higher and would thereby reduce the essential opportunities they would have for the use of this salary. On the other hand, those workers who would have less paid contributions also due to the deficit in social services in the budget would be faced with a simple decision or pay for this social security, which the State is concerned about at the moment and, on the other hand, simply to give up. These scenarios have already been seen in many ways and cause only a greater division between those who receive minimum incomes and those who are precisely on the basis of the burden of labour costs in a better position and can therefore afford such privatised social services. I think that at this point no one can wish for it, and we urgently need to support the redefinition of the minimum wage, but to continue in this direction not only by providing this minimum for survival, but through appropriate reforms, to achieve general social equality in society as such. In the United Left, we will certainly make an effort to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President. To be clear at the outset that there will be no big deal and to make it easier for us to talk further, of course I support this proposal that we have on the table today and that we are discussing. However, I must say that I was terribly disturbed by the debate in the direction, because we are always talking about social categories, we are constantly mixing the notions of what social adjustments are; in short, we are mixing everything in one pot. The pay is paid and it is known exactly what makes one get it, and we know when a country or partners enter the process of determining this salary and especially who. I must say that today I was surprised by the e-mail sent by the Chamber in essence by some kind of protest to the Government, but then we all got it by email and read a very short sentence: "We are sending a sharp protest by the Management Board of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the planned new burden of the economy..." blah, blah, blah and so on, that I do not owe you because you all know and know what I am talking about. Actually, I don't mind if they send this to the government. But I think we lost Phil Rouge in the whole story. You know, as long as three social partners sit at the table and talk about whether they succeed or fail, that's one story, of course. On the other hand, when we have, on the basis of the Constitution and civil society, which started with five thousand signatures, the legislative process in the National Assembly, the GZS Management Board has no right to whine and to cry about what is happening in the National Assembly, because there is a completely different process that I think is at the highest level and we have nothing to discuss. All three of you go back to the table and talk there without burdening the National Assembly with yours, I'll tell you what you don't really need. What matters to me is that today I have heard quite a few discussions about how even one Member of Parliament has been discussing here – I have to say that I was appalled, I don't know if she was on Hill, I wasn't there, but on Hill you discussed the budget a few days ago. [[…]] She has now even proposed that the budget pay the difference to the minimum wage. In fact, little has become confusing; it is known what social transfer is and when the state takes place. Last but not least, because both ministers promised both the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance to solve the problem of tax policy. I think it's just to wait for it to happen, because by the end of 2016 we should have seen it. In fact, I am more interested in whether these steps will help us to correct anything else that is really necessary. In addition, shall I mention the following: have we learned anything from this story? In 2010, however, the colleague mentioned that it was a 12.5% increase or a minimum wage increase – of course, if we look from 2000 to 2010. In fact, there was a drastic rise of 23% of the minimum wage. I don't mind, but back then, at the time of the biggest crisis, it was a warning that this would simply not hold up in the long run. Today we are actually correcting because the biggest mistake occurred at that time, and this is because there has been a rotten compromise to get these supplements to a minimum wage — this has to be said out loud — and now we are only putting them out and we are discussing it today. If we have learned something from this, that we simply cannot do such things on a chorus, with some measures, because we will be long-term this warmth, then I also welcome forward, because this means that the three partners will start to talk seriously and negotiate. In the end, let me warn you one more thing. It bothers me terribly because at every negotiation, with every new government, whenever it happens, an economic minister always comes and says, we will have to talk about lunch and transport – this is already the second category. Of course, trade unions jump up and say no, and that's a social corrective salary! Misthinking. Sooner or later, there will be this discussion. How we're going to act and talk then, I think it's going to be an even bigger problem. But it is a fact that only with economic growth will we be able to solve all these problems that we are dealing with today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Get Mrs. Vojka Shergan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with Mr Möderndorfer's proposal. We could actually end this debate if you ask me, after presenting the views. We have made it clear and clear that we support this change, that it is not about raising minimum wages, but about correcting large injustices. And I personally feel that these are wrongs that we need to correct, even though employers have the opposite opinion, but this is a question of employers and employees who should negotiate with each other. You know, I was very positively surprised today at the discussion of a coalition colleague. In order not to make a mistake, even if the opposition colleague or colleague were discussing it in this direction, I would also like to express a positive opinion on the debate. I must commend Irena Košnik Grošelj, who said that the power of the State is measured by how it is able to ensure security for those people who are at the social threshold or that only elites are not supported. The union's proposal, in fact the signatures were collected in a bad week, says in a very short time, they collected 11 000 206 signatures – a minimum of 5,000 signatures. This is a matter that we must accept in the National Assembly, as I have already mentioned, with all four of them, so to speak, that this injustice is done. We are not talking about raising the minimum wage, but we are talking mainly about eliminating the injustices associated with employers including all these night hours, holiday hours and Sunday hours in the minimum wage. Look, sometimes we sit in the National Assembly late at night, sometimes we sit until morning, and we know what it feels like to be working at night. How we think when we work at night or how we are gathered together was an early and yesterday’s classic example. This work is more demanding and must be properly rewarded. Listen, this is about the euro 50 or how much after hours if you work at night or working on holidays. This is minimal, and in any case, it's a waste of words that we're wasting so we don't eliminate this injustice. In the final stage, in the public sector, this is said to be an additional EUR 300,000. We do not have this data for the real sector, but when compared with the public sector, we spend €4.5 billion per annum for wages, and a million €300,000 for those workers working in this night, holiday, and all those days when others are actually still resting, there is no bigger problem. Can we imagine paying 604 euros a month? There must have been some of us in this house, which at the beginning of our period we had this salary at this level, of course there was some completely different money for my time, for some over there there was another time and there was other money, then there were euros probably, and we know what it means when you have a little pay. But now imagine that it is the threshold of poverty, which we have already heard in this Chamber today, €593 and that the minimum wage is almost the threshold of poverty. Let's move on. I must not let this happen because I am a representative of the Democratic Party of the Retired, and I also advocate for the older population. You imagine 57% of the worker's average salary, then you get a pension and quickly you get a very strange number, which is written in €3,4.5 and €345. Should this man, whether male or female, hang his stomach on a wedge? He can still get an extra €105 security supplement, but as far as we Slovenians know each other, very few of these Slovenes and Slovenians, who decide to accept the security supplement, because they simply and simply have everything, then leave nothing to themselves. I know a person who's single, she had her own property, she sold it, and then she built a smaller house. He said everyone did something in the village and they'll leave something, and I want to do something and leave something." At this point, you could say I'd finish, but I don't want to. I'll say one more thing. Economists, managers, owners still need to understand that we have taken care of this structure in the last period. Let's see. Reduction in the rate of pension contributions. Contributions are at the same level in all European countries. In 1997, we cut them by half, and employers are now paying half less because there was enough money in the pension register, now that the money is gone, there is probably no hero who would be able to say that we will now equalize this contribution and that employers and employees will have the same contribution. At this point, of course, this is not acceptable, but we must remember that this has happened. Then the abolition of the salary tax, the reduction in the rate of profit, and the years of various reliefs or subsidies, such as the partial reimbursement of wages, were then not the last to adopt new, more flexible legislation. Many entrepreneurs want even more flexible legislation. I am sure that most entrepreneurs think well and do not take advantage of this flexible legislation, but some of them are also those who would do so, and yet we have to ensure the safety of the weaker one on the other hand, which is the worker; the employer can't easily and simply throw it on the road because he doesn't like it. Here is the key problem: we do not yet have more flexible legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, the union representative! Today we are discussing an important topic, this is a proposal to exempt allowances from the minimum wage. However, I would like to point out that this is a matter that should be addressed by past governments or social partners, which are employers and trade unions, as it is the result of these past practices in 1995. This is said to be a 20-year-old case when we should agree that the minimum wage would be the starting point in collective agreements. Our role today is to protect the weaker, in this case the small man, the workers who receive the minimum wage. Also in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we advocate that all workers receive a fair pay from work and that they earn enough in their work to live a decent life. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the important institute of collective agreements in this debate. I would point out that the social partners have never reconciled the starting salary in the industry's collective agreements with the minimum wage; hence with the minimum wage law. At the same time, I point out that payment classes in collective agreements are regulated outside the Minimum Wage Act. I wonder why the social partners are doing this. In individual sector collective agreements are arranged, I will say, all the specificities of a particular sector collective agreement; so allow, working conditions, job protection, education, scholarships, in short, in these collective agreements, industries which form the basis of the Labour Relations Act, are completely all arranged, of course also night work allowances, holiday work, weekend work. I would therefore really like to point out that the sector-specific collective agreements should be those that regulate the wages of workers in the labour market and not a specific law such as the Minimum Wages Act. I would also like to highlight an example that I know very well, namely a collective agreement on craft and entrepreneurship, where the first wage class starts at EUR 576 and the minimum wage is reached only in the 6th grade. I would like to point out that such an arrangement means that workers who give excess value in the company are thus dangerously approaching the equation with a minimum wage. I therefore call for consideration to be given to the concept of minimum wage taking into account the salary scale and wage ratios. I would like to stress that this consideration should take place between employers, trade unions and the Government, especially between trade unions and employers. It seems fair to me that the representatives of both trade unions and employers, who actually have their representatives in individual trade unions and representative employers' representatives, I really urge them to approach constructive dialogue and reach the broadest possible consensus and not to give up and stop negotiating. Of course, in the light of justice and fair treatment of individual workers working under these different conditions, I will today unreservedly support this proposal, but I would like to point out, in the end, that it is crucial that the Government should take an immediate approach to reducing labour costs and the general tax reform, because we will only prove to the economy that we are trying for their good business environment and competitiveness, because without it they will be even more difficult for the social partners in future negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, then prepare the mags. Andrea Poje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. First of all, I must say that I am pleased that today we have a law that will allow all workers working full-time under these difficult working conditions, on Sunday, at night, at holidays, and that they will be otherwise rewarded than all others and these supplements will not be included in the minimum wage. On the other hand, I am disappointed that this change has not taken place in previous mandates or that this minimum wage was harmonised in 2010 and we simply know that we could have done it earlier. However, I believe, as was already heard in the debate, they simply could not agree with the unions. I myself have encountered such problems in the company itself or in the public sector where I have been picking wages, and I was simply appalled that workers who worked on Sundays, on holidays, received exactly the same salary as those who worked only in the morning. In fact, these people came to me, and they were afraid of what I could do. I was looking for opportunities to do, but also the ZUJF did its job, so I couldn't even give them a job allowance, so I was in the enchanted circle, how to reward people for their work. This means that today's minimum wage is indeed very much, I will say, set at EUR 790.73. This is a gross amount, the net amount is substantially lower and this is EUR 604,35. The value of a basket of living costs is even lower, but this does not guarantee a decent life for workers doing their jobs. I must stress that we in the National Assembly are obliged to ensure the rights of workers and also to protect them – work as it is. Therefore, we need to reduce salary and income inequality, reduce wage discrimination, try to reduce family poverty, protect especially workers who work. The European Social Charter, which has already read it, provides that workers have the right to a fair payment that ensures a decent standard of living for them and their families. That is why I am particularly disappointed at the actions of employers who want to take advantage of their workers and create capital. Unfortunately, some employers do not realize that the largest capital in the company is, unfortunately, a worker. At the same time, on the other hand, we have an increasing number of successful entrepreneurs or employers, who are aware of this, deeply aware that the satisfaction of employees is extremely important for the company's success. So, the magic formula for a successful company is satisfied workers. Satisfying employees are those who give efficiency to the company and are also effective in their jobs. It would be useful for everyone to know that wages are a key component of the economy that allows consumption, thus economic growth. Increasing social differences is unacceptable, as it unfortunately promotes intolerance as well as hatred. So let's think about where we want to take Slovenia. On the other hand, I must also say that all those who seek in the economy to find profits at all costs at the expense of workers – unfortunately, it is unacceptable for me and for many workers as well. Finally, let me quote Roosevelt in 1933: "A company that pays wages under the level of survival for its existence does not deserve to do business in this country." However, I would certainly like the employees to have salaries that would guarantee social security and to live a decent life, as well as all others, both pensioners and young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The text shall be made available by the representative of the proposers, Mag. Andrea Poje. Get Mrs. Violeta Tomic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, Members, Minister of Labour! I am pleased that you supported the proposal of the trade union centres by all the Members and all Members. This amendment of the law will finally eliminate the unequal treatment faced by employees on minimum wages. I must point out that they have been treated unevenly twice; once within a group of employees who receive a minimum wage and once again within the same company. For they are the only ones who are not actually recognized and paid an allowance above the minimum wage. Today, a claim that is not true has been repeatedly exposed. For we have been working together for more than 10 years to change the definition of minimum wage. We sat three times with many governments [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u71	Peace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u72	I'm afraid it's a failure. [[…]] On the contrary, as has been said, this definition is valid and is incorporated into the law itself from the very beginning, that is, since 1995, and this problem has not emerged in 2010. I would like to point out that we wanted to address this issue again in the Social Agreement. We have proposed many solutions to how we could gradually exclude the allowances from the minimum wage. We had a lot of suggestions, lots of options. None of the proposed options were acceptable to employers. That is why we have removed from the social agreement all elements relating to minimum wage. Within the social agreement, you will not see anything about minimum wage or wage in the introduction. This, I stress, was also recognised by the European Commission, which in the Council's recommendations of 14 July 2015 concerning the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, was published in the Official Journal of the EU, C272/6, where it is well stated that the agreement does not regulate the composition of minimum wages and their indexing. I must also point out that we have called for dialogue, we have called for a joint agreement on a tripartite approach to solving this problem, but there has been no hearing about it. Since it was not possible to agree in the social agreement and the social agreement, to remedy the injustice, in fact, we had no other option than to take the path we went on. Employers were also informed in the course of negotiations for a social agreement. We've never been able to hide that we've observed this injustice and that we want to eliminate it. It is absolutely unacceptable that the rights of the most vulnerable are always violated in this country. I would also like to point out that the most anti-employees who do not have collective agreements are those who do not wish to engage in social bargaining, because this way they can abuse the inactive legal system and thereby increase their profits. The problem is therefore where there is no tripartite negotiation and where social dialogue is not possible. I would also like to point out that the majority of employers or businesses we work with are correct and understand the situation of employees, and the minority is extremely loud, and this minority also controls employers' organisations. I must stress that it is in line with all European international standards on the right to a decent payment and the right to equal treatment of employees. It is therefore essential that, in this case, if no agreement is possible, there is no agreement on these issues to reach out to the governments to reach out to the National Assembly. You're setting limits on what's acceptable in this society. If the minimum wage, for example, was not legally agreed and legally determined, I can tell you that many sectors and many companies would be permanently faced with the possibility of lowering wages to the level of inadmissibility. At this point, there's only one thing I'd like to point out. The fact that in unions we keep reminding ourselves of unrealistic amounts in collective agreements of activity. We've prepared our new pay model to put an end to this. A salary model that would place a real cost of work that would actually bring us closer to real payout. However, there was no listening on the part of the employers' organisations and therefore no new pay model was adopted. I must point out that the reason and the key argument on their part was that there would be too much costs for computer programmes. Let me also stress that the easiest thing to do is to negotiate, as has been exposed a little bit back, with trade and entrepreneurship employers, because they actually understand their employees and understand how important it is for employees to be well paid, rewarded and valued. And I must point out that they are also one of those who have the oldest collective agreement. So much for now, for these introductory explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! Some of the slightly older here, who have had regular working relationships in some former system, which is now so very much hated, we see this growing inequality and division between the rich and the poor. Even more difficult are the full - time people who have to stand at the door of the Red Cross to feed themselves and their family who have to wait for their children to receive a subsidized diet and whether charitable organizations will be able to send their children to sea. That is why I would touch on the statement made by Minister Anja Kopač Mrakova, who said that this was not supposed to be a tightening between work and capital – today that 1% of the world owns 99% of the world's wealth. We know who has exacerbated this conflict, and today we stand for those who need our help and who are in the worst of distress. Therefore, in the United Left we support trade union changes in the definition of minimum wage because this is necessary. It is a great injustice that those who have already been paid at least so much do not receive compensation for work outside normal working hours. It doesn't matter what situation we're working in and what time we're working on, but the question is, of course, whether the supplements replace broken birites, or whether these supplements, which are very low, can compensate for the loss of time with their closest lost weeks, the lost holidays. The basis of justice is that someone who works under more difficult conditions is better paid for it. Therefore, the minimum wage must be the basis, it must mean the minimum amount that the worker receives for the full amount of the regular obligation, and all else are the allowances and then these supplements must be known for the payment. It is clear that there is no supplement to the minimum wage on its own. That is true and so is fair, and that is why we will offer such a correction of the union law. The minimum wage is an instrument whose task is to protect employees from poverty and, as my predecessor has already quoted the European Social Charter as saying that everyone must have the opportunity to live with the work he has freely accepted, and all workers have the right to a fair pay that is sufficient for them and their families to live a decent life. Well, how are things with us today? At worst, the minimum wage is only €576.34 and the poverty threshold is €593, so it is no wonder that some 291,000 people lived below the poverty risk threshold last year. It is a shame that in a country in the middle of Europe that is considered to be developed, employees are knocking on the door of the Red Cross. Therefore, the minimum payment should necessarily be raised above the poverty threshold itself; the minimum wage must ensure a decent life for the employee and his family. This is the basis on which we all agree, of course. The risk of social exclusion reaches 20.4% of the population and the risk of poverty is 14.5%. Among those at risk of poverty, however, there are as many as 20% of them active. 20% of full-time employees are below the poverty risk threshold. This means that employment does not allow an individual to live a decent life from his work. This means that the minimum wage is definitely too low, because of the supplements it contains, but also unfair, and — what kind of country are we living in today? We live in a country where tycoon Dusan Sesok proposes to abolish the minimum wage. We live in a country where Finance Minister Maramor claims that the minimum wage should not be raised by a single euro. In addition, we live in a country where the country is one of the worst exploiters. A total of 9,000 people employed in the public sector receive a minimum wage or less than a minimum wage and pay is needed. Of course, even here in this house, so that no one would think that in the National Assembly, everyone is pouring honey and milk! The State that sets the minimum level of payment shall be the one that itself is most in breach of these provisions. So we live in a socially unjust country. That is why I call on you, the entire National Assembly, to support our proposal in the next reading, to exclude all the supplements from the definition of minimum wage. The minimum wage should first remain a bare foundation, it will be a fair minimum wage. This will also be socially fair, and this means that raising the minimum wage is a necessary measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the word to prepare Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u76	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! On the one hand, I am really pleased that we finally have such a unified National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at least when we are discussing the correction of injustice. Clearly, it is an injustice that so far the night work allowance, the Sunday work allowance and the other holidays allowance are already included in this minimum wage, which is net worth 604 euros, and I share an opinion with those who say that this is too low. Hand to heart, a great praise to those who survive and can survive with such low income! This injustice needs to be rectified, which is why Nova Slovenija supports the union proposal. When we talk about minimum wage, I cannot go past the former finance minister who promised to make a preeminent promise of a thousand euros. This was Mr Franz Križanič, the Social Democrats, and the first time I see him, I will say, truly, I am sorry today that you failed to do so, these promises. This is really missing, Franz the Crusader, and I'm sorry we didn't get to that. That's what everybody's sorry about. Some of the predecessors spoke about the conflict between workers and employers that employers are those who exploit workers many times and do not pay a decent wage for their work. See, Christian Democrats can't agree to such a surviving rhetoric, because it is also necessary to realize that the economy and entrepreneurship are the key to creating new jobs. When we talk about the development of Slovenia, the economic breakthrough and when we have positive economic indicators; see, in the first place, we really have to thank the economy, the exporters, because they accelerated exports because they succeeded. Without a well-standing economy, there are no new jobs either. With the New Slovenia Group, we go to the field several times, and we see that companies, successful companies, give proper payment to good workers and in Slovenia there is a lot of this. This way we can't talk about entrepreneurs again like those ugly capitalists who are primarily meant to exploit workers. So I ask that your colleagues here correct this rhetoric of yours. In fact, this relationship between the employer and the worker is mutual and they always need each other. I said before, we need new jobs if we want the economy to come out of the crisis, but we will only get new jobs by encouraging economic growth in order to make this economic breakthrough. And, of course, measures for this economic growth. In fact, what does greater economic growth mean? Increased economic growth means more employees and better wages. Increased economic growth therefore means higher wages and more employees, higher consumption. All of this also means that we are filling the budget and taking care of the social state. When we talk about minimum wage, we are actually talking about charity, our goal should not be to talk about charity; our goal must be to talk to those who receive minimum wages, to make their wages actually grow, to make them go higher. For this reason, in New Slovenia, we must commend ourselves for proposing a package of measures to relieve the economy, to tax the economy, to lower taxes and one of these measures also proposes or propose a restriction on the payment of social contributions. So we'd unload the ones with the lowest income. What does that mean? This means that those with a minimum wage would get a month of 50 euros more. In one year, this measure would bring one more salary to those with a minimum wage per year. This measure will soon also be in the parliamentary procedure on your benches, and I now call on you, or I ask you to raise the minimum wage, support this measure. If someone had 50 euros more in his wallet, of course, this money would be spent, the budget in the Treasury would also increase. Once again, I call on you to discuss the budget in parallel. Look, we can't burden the economy, that's parallel when we talk about minimum wage. Our economy is overloaded. Our companies are already breathing very hard. For this is the only marriage, that the minimum wage may be higher, that the workers shall, therefore, earn the wages which they also deserve. We cannot speak – here I am correcting the Vice-President of the National Assembly – that workers are the ones who create the economy. No, they're sharing it! Workers and employers, this is the kind of relationship that has to be. But we, parliamentarians, have to make sure that we say, for the economy in particular, in the sense that it will be easier to operate, that it will be burdened so that, once again, I emphasise, it will pay more workers. We can't put more burden on them, the economy, than it is now. That's why I understand Finance Minister Marble. Maybe someone in the coalition doesn't understand him when he talks about decommissioning the economy. And only promises: will we raise the minimum wage – yes, ladies and gentlemen, from where? That's not working. This is not going as Franz Križanič said, there will be a thousand euros. That's not the way it works. First of all, we need a stable and well-standing economy to export businesses in full, in order to reduce all taxes, i.e. taxes and contributions. These are the measures that would in the long run mean that there will also be minimum wages, that we will no longer talk about charity, but that we will talk about decent earnings to do the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. However, I would like to say, a little while in this thesis, which we have touched today and we are directly addressing it, particularly the Members of the United Left, that it is an absolute conflict between work and capital. It is normal to have different interests, but basically this conflict must be moved, and this is the foundation of the development society. For example, if the thesis were to apply, as simple as it was exposed, I would say how it is possible to have a minimum wage of EUR 1,000 in Luxembourg. So if there is such a big conflict between work and capital, where ugly capitalists are – because life is so much easier to simplify and say that all those who work, who create, are basically ugly and do not want to give workers a minimum wage. That was exposed. I just want to say that there are no simplistic things. We have good employers, we have bad employers. That's right. The fact is that, unfortunately, the minimum wage is also a condition of the economy – I also said that someone will not take it all together again from the context. Unfortunately, the added value in our economy is the situation as it is. The ratio between the minimum wage and the average wage is the same as it is. The main problem in Slovenia is the height of the average wage. If they had a higher average salary, they would be able to raise the minimum wage absolutely as necessary. Minimum wage is the key to a decent life for people. But it is not only the answer that we raise the minimum wage, but the conditions in the economy need to be changed so that it can work better. That's a fact. And to compete as much as the minimum wage will be raised or not, it can only be demagogy, unfortunately. Unfortunately. It is, however, a fact that, on the other hand, in 2010, when the minimum wage was raised by 23% – in 1995, when it was adopted, our longtime member and still a member of the Social Democrats Milos Pavlica participated in the drafting of this bill – it was said that at least 80,000 jobs would therefore be lost. But they weren't there. That's a fact. On the other hand, it also has an impact on the economy. But this is not the subject of today's debate, today we are discussing the proposal ahead of us, this is an exception to three supplements, which are night work, work on holidays and Sunday work. So, three supplements, where we all agreed it was an unfair arrangement. Therefore, it is irrelevant to put forward a conflict between work and capital. It is necessary to look for a way to continue the social dialogue in the country, to see comprehensive changes in tax reform, which you have all raised as important, and to discuss further changes in the definition of minimum wage. But the goal would be social dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, honourable motions! It wouldn't be me if I hadn't tried something new. So, to address a question that has not been addressed relatively, it has only been addressed by the United Left and I also thank them for this introductory part because they have further encouraged me to do so. In fact, no one is referring to the essence of the problem. The proposal that the proposer came up with – and of course deviated from the well-established ways of doing so, i.e. that there should be a solution in the social dialogue in this area – and came up with a proposal for a law that none of us has any reservations and no problems. However, there is such a distressing impression that we will not achieve anything to promote trade unions, that in doing so you have relatively upset employers, the Economic Chamber, that you have put some small problems on the part of the Government, and in particular, as we have repeatedly pointed out, inappropriately because you have done things that you should and that you must solve in the cooperative processes yourself, transferred to the National Assembly. This isn't the right way. When we are already at the National Assembly, so what I would like to stress in particular is that you have come with a cosmetic correction, so with a different definition of minimum wage, which of course is not, this is no definition and no redefinition of minimum wage, but you are trying to convince us and you have already convinced us, because, as already said by honourable Member Franz Jurša, after five minutes, we could have finished today's treatment and then moved on to other questions that are still waiting for us. In fact, the fact that the minimum wage does not include an allowance for night work, an allowance for work on Sundays, an allowance for work on holidays and working off days after marriage – this is not a redefinition of minimum wage. The redefinition of the minimum wage must refer to the issue we have in the Labour Relations Act, and this is the basic salary, which is often, as we will see below, we also call the starting salary. In fact, the Labour Relations Act in Article 126 states: "The payment for work under the Employment Contract is made up of a salary which must always be in monetary form and any other kind of payment, if so specified by the collective agreement. In paying, the employer must take into account the minimum laid down by law." As is customary for us, once again I repeat that the employer must take into account the minimum wage laid down by the law. If I'm not mistaken, today we're at the point of the agenda of the Minimum Wage Act. It is difficult to explain to people what the difference is. How can a minimum wage be something that you at first imagine is a minimum, and then you realize that it's not a minimum because there's something that can be even lower than a minimum? We have been waiting for this question in our room for an answer all the time since the pressure came and there has been a minimum wage set in the way we have today, and where you are trying to get something obvious out of the world by proposing minimum cosmetic adjustments. In fact, in the second paragraph of Article 126, if I continue, "The salary consists of the basic salary," not the minimum wage, despite the fact that in the first paragraph of the same article the law states that it must comply with the minimum laid down in the law. So, "the salary consists of the basic salary, part of the salary for work performance and supplements. An integral part of the salary shall also be payment for business performance if this is agreed upon by collective agreement or by a contract of employment." 127. Article 127: "The basic salary shall be determined taking into account the complexity of the work for which the worker has concluded a contract of employment. The worker’s work performance shall be determined taking into account the cost-effectiveness, quality and extent of the work for which the worker has concluded a contract of employment. The allowances shall be set for specific working conditions arising from the allocation of working hours, night work, overtime, Sunday work, holidays and working days off by law. Supplements for special working conditions arising from specific workloads, adverse environmental impacts and occupational hazards not contained in the complexity of work may be determined by collective agreement...... They may be established by collective agreement. And now we're slowly getting to the point of the problem. "The amount of the allowances referred to in the preceding paragraph may be fixed in the collective agreement in the nominal amount or as a percentage of the basic full-time salary or the corresponding hourly items." Why do I say that the original sin is in marriage or in the relationship between the Labour Relations Act and the Minimum Wage Act? The Minimum Wages Act was adopted in 2010. The reasons behind the legislature's adoption of this law are well known, and I would not repeat them here. It is surprising, however, that during the 2013 legislative process, basic wages remained and that the minimum wage which was enacted by special law was not respected in the Republic of Slovenia. And now to cruel facts. The collective agreements, and here is my statement to the unions that he has taken an inappropriate path and that he has gone to the National Assembly instead of enforcing what we have legally, and there would be no need for cosmetic corrections. Why do I say that? Because, as far as I know, trade unions are involved in collective bargaining. That is why, by saying which collective agreement, I will also say, when it was published, more than significant. Collective Contract for Trade Activities – 2014. The minimum wage is only for Class 7, in the case of highly demanding parts. The collective contract of municipal activities – 2015 – begins over the minimum wage in the 6th grade. The collective contract of hospitality and tourism activities of Slovenia – 2013 – begins above the minimum wage at the 6th grade. Collective contract for the activities of metal materials and foundries of Slovenia – 2014 – minimum wage only at the 6th grade. The collective contract for paper and paper processing activities – 2013 – only in the 6/1 tariff class through a minimum wage. The collective contract of graphic activity there until 2008, we really can't make much of this. As regards the collective contract for the activity of the electricity industry of Slovenia – above the minimum wage only in the 6th grade. The collective contract for the metal industry of Slovenia – 2015 – only in the 6th grade. The collective contract for the insurance of Slovenia – 2011 – is only in the 7th tariff class of highly demanding works. The collective contract of road economy activities – they too do not have a current one, because it is also from 2008, so that in this context it would not open up in this context now. The collective contract for activities for the production and processing of non-metallic mines in Slovenia only in the 6.2 tariff class. The collective contract for textile, clothing, leather and leather processing activities of Slovenia only in the 7th grade. The collective contract for forestry only in the 7th grade, highly demanding works. The collective contract for road passenger transport of Slovenia – 2015 – only in the 7th grade. The collective contract for forestry in Slovenia is only in the fifth, more difficult work. A collective contract for craft and entrepreneurship previously appointed in the 7th grade. Collective contract for postal and courier activities – 2014 – only in the 5th grade, difficult works. The collective contract of banking activities of Slovenia – 2014 – only in the 6th grade. The collective agreement between workers and small-scale companies is only in the 5th grade. If I have the right data because they can change daily, in the public sector only in the 16th grade. I think the data is speaking to itself enough and we're doing something again today that we shouldn't be doing. People who do their job are not paid in accordance with the Minimum Wage Act, because we have an embedded basic salary in the system. So, of course, I'm waiting for someone to teach me, my intellectual abilities have been exceeded here in this case. I don't understand the difference between a minimum and a basic salary, which, of course, results in today's cosmetic adjustments saying that we really can't do so unfairly that if someone works more under more unpleasant conditions, they have to be paid more than someone who, of course, puts less effort into the work. On the other hand, as far as I'm concerned, I understand employers. Very nice, as has been the case with employers who insist on — of course, as in the grand global plan — giving up their rights over decades. Of course, we cannot easily with fear again and again at the expense of people who cannot afford to survive with minimum wage because they are at the border all the time. These people cannot afford to get sick, for the benefits they have in case they get sick are below the threshold of poverty. These are the facts. Therefore, of course, such a proposal as placed on the table cannot be disputed and we all support it. We are also aware of the consequences that this brings, but a thorough debate is needed to stop pretending to tell people who work in the Republic of Slovenia, so that they can create a decent life with their work, as we have also said in the introductions. These are the objectives of the Modern Cent Party, so we have entered politics to represent vulnerable, weaker people in the National Assembly and to enable them to do what we promised them to do. We have offered processes, processes of cooperation, negotiation, and kindly please, proposer, enter not on the right, as today, but as planned. Social dialogue must come to life, and in social dialogue we cannot with a fig in our pocket, but we must take a real look at things and agree. If we find that the minimum wage is set too high, let's face facts, lower the minimum wage, but let's not get carried away. The worst thing is, good people don't do anything. I couldn't keep my mouth shut, I speak on behalf of all those who have addressed me in the last good year, who have these problems to live in — and yes; the answer to the question that has been asked, I answer it, I know how these people live. I'm sorry if I got a little upset, but I think it's important to name things with the right name, no figs in my pocket, and agree on what and how we should do to make life in the Republic of Slovenia worth living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the proposer, Mrs Mag. Andrea Poje.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd just like to explain a few things. In the Republic of Slovenia we are facing a major problem in the area of wage policy, which is obsolete. The salary model is outdated, based on the system of the previous regime. I must stress, as I said earlier, that in the Free Trade Union we have prepared a new pay model based on studies of Austrian, German and foreign models. It was confirmed by our Presidency in 2009 and adopted as a basis. We have set the real cost of work in it, and we also want the minimum wage, as envisaged in these international instruments, to become a wage floor. We wanted to establish a real cost of work, to set amounts that would reflect the real situation more in relation to the wages paid. But, as I said before, there was no listening. You know that the most anti-employers who do not want to conclude collective agreements are in fact not able to join collective bargaining in a few areas of activity, because this is constantly rejected by employers. One of them is also, say, for protection. If I touch only a little bit of the Labour Relations Act and the Minimum Wages Act, let me stress that there is no problem in the Labour Relations Act, the Labour Relations Act provides that the basic salary to be determined for the complexity of the job is to be signed by the employee on the employment contract. However, the minimum basic wages, which are set out in a bipartite conversation at the level of collective agreements, set a minimum value for the calculation of wages at the level of the collective agreement. The worker’s basic salary may be equal to or higher than the minimum basic salary laid down in the tariff annex of the collective agreement, of course of the relevant tariff class. The lowest basic wages that we agree on represent a minimum, minimum activity, so that this whole activity can pass through and through. Other companies at entrepreneurial level set higher wages and higher starting points, so also the lowest basic wages at higher levels. Let me tell you, when we negotiated for the textile industry, the Mura was always exposed. They can't be the lowest basic wage set in the higher amount because it would sink Mura. I'm just giving you an example that at the level of collective bargaining, activities are determined by the minimum wage structure. It is true, as I pointed out, that an outdated system, we wanted changes, we prepared our salary model, including employers, such as German organisations, our model was close to them, but on the employer's side there was no listening and there was no desire for this change. As it is said, the reason was the excessive cost of accounting programmes, changes in accounting programmes, and from this title the unwillingness to negotiate and agree on a real labour price. So much for an explanation. Therefore, the only possible option that solves the problem of these most vulnerable in the labour market is through the Minimum Wages Act. The Minimum Wage Act provides that the minimum wage is full-time. And yes, in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, this means that it includes basic salary, overtime allowances, heavy working conditions allowances, a worktime allowance and also work performance. And, yeah, that's a big problem, but there's no other option than that. I would also like to point out that we would also like all the supplements to go at once from the minimum wage. We cannot agree that it is a matter of beautiful corrections, because it is a fact that such a proposal would actually result in job losses and also, as you know, in the 10-year negotiations nothing has changed, we have not achieved anything, so it is better to eliminate those allowances for unfavourable working hours. We believe that the exclusion of others must be agreed upon in social dialogue. Further steps are urgently needed. I'd like to re-emphasize. It has been repeatedly pointed out that we do not have data for the private sector, we have data for the private sector, we have a representative sample from companies and, similar to the public sector in the private sector, that only a minority of those who receive minimum wages and work under night, Sunday or holiday work would actually be justified. As it is said, the survey showed that of the 95,000 employees there were only 1.1% of them who had a minimum wage with the Sunday work allowance included and 1.3% of them – I was mistaken, 1.1% with night work and 1.3% with Sunday work. As it is said, because of these low basics to which we are witnessing, the average allowance per hour of night work was 1.58 euros gross. That is why we believe that it will not cause any redundancies and any major pressure on businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Trček has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. In the meantime, Mr. Han texted me, "Well, Joint Left, listen up." I know Matjaž has a family business. I was with a former partner a little while ago, and I borrowed from my savings in the months when there was no money so we could pay the workers a little more than the minimum wage. But it seems to me – here are many graduates of theology and there is something else you are telling me about the so-called real sector, but I have a little feeling that you may be really good preachers, but with the real sector, it seems to me that you have not had enough contact. I'm not talking about Matjaž here. What the predecessor of me, Dr. Mitja Horvat, was apparently saying must have wasted time, a party directive. [[…]] Also, someone from the coalition said something about it, and I will not say what I will comment on with a lady's quote because she masters the problem of poverty in Slovenia: "What does Miro Cerar know about poverty?" [[…]] End of quote. It saddens me that we have to ping-pong with our fellow statesman and the secretary of the field, even if we have to go to these lower intellectual positions, but I understand that the SD now has a crossroads, that the United Left is in Parliament. Pull out, you know, Luxembourg as a comparison, so please! [[…]] Tax oasis! What was that Mr. Anonymous alcoholic doing before he came to a position in Brussels? Well, look, the media, my friend, not now, the media writes me like that because I don't know him personally. For me personally, you know, I'm not going to talk about dignity either, because dignity is a moralist category. We talked a lot about dignity here. After all, I'm a sociologist, a famous Slovenian doctor said in an interview, "Slovenia is rich enough not to be poor." As politicians, we should put in place short-term conditions for absolute poverty to disappear, and medium-term conditions for relative poverty to disappear. All right, let's leave some famous tycoons out there today who'd like to buy a bentley. The minimum wage, as I see it, is mainly a double adjustment. The first correction for some sectors that are currently in some difficulty, and the second for some sectors that are at home churches. The issue that we are now discussing here, I quote the Minister, "sad condition, including the condition of the economy...", was the third, fourth time that the United Left did not create in this House. I'm not dragging Frank Drenovac out again. We are having this debate today because you have not created the conditions to jump into a new economic development model by the politicians who have been leading this country and society for almost a quarter of a century. The United Left is most evident, most of which I am talking about a smart specialisation strategy in this House. Not in the same "feeling" way that she's about to come in, you can't read it. We should talk about this, not waste our time here on this minimum wage. If we were already talking about minimum wage, I would essentially talk about the methodology for calculating the threshold of poverty with a colleague, because we are still few experts on it, but I would say that the minimum wage should be 15 % on a temporary basis and 20% on a long-term basis. I should be thinking about it, not now that Mr. Doctor here is reading us formalistically, and I don't know what kind of contract and making a fool of people. Mag. Andreja Poje said twice, three times very clearly that there was no listening, they withdrew from the negotiations, employers abuse In the morning we listened to some "ibungo" unions, now I listened to her, so I think what we preachers are going to do, now we're going to be trying to get the unions to act. Trade unions have their tactics and strategies, they have their membership and they have their rights and duties. If we don't give a sermon to the unions, we give a sermon to each other, which rhetoric has survived. Each of us represents a certain position, has its own rhetoric, has its own style. Stop already or sign up for some theology – I'll probably get into the evangelical. [[Incomprehensible]] I'm heading towards the end, because we're not a big party yet, but we're gonna be bigger. In Parliament, there are 10 employees in addition to the minimum wage, 28 employees in there around the minimum wage, and more than half of the employees are under the average wage. If you don't always eat in that restaurant part, you'll see that you and your co-worker have lunch together or that they're just eating appetizers and the like. Students who clean the Honorary Parliament are essentially, if we count it, on some minimum wage. Now I'm going to say, as he spoke yesterday under the title of colleague Mr. Gorenak: Let's stop fucking with people! I mean literally. Let's stop this debate dignity up and down, on the left-right, we're imagining dignity very differently. We need to solve the poverty problem that we have in this country and society, and we need to solve the economic problem that has persisted in the labour intensive industry model for too long. For the longer term, we will behave like ostriches, the more we will see this reflected in social transfers and the more difficult the debate on minimum wage will be. Our job is not to moralise, to look for the best conditions in our position, so that we can conclude these debates and that people will not be poor. And that's our story. It's not like we're salting each other's minds, but we're salting the minds of the unions. And then I'm unworthy, disrespectful and so on. This quasi lazily theological discourse is because of me, I don't know, in the inn or elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u85	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare himself for the Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'm not going to tell you what you and Franchek are intimately peeing during the sitting, but I'm going to continue where Franci ended up. Except for that theology, I absolutely agree with that last part of the sentence. Only then do you have to be a realist, then you have to think a little bit about your head and not what some experts write to you or what some of your peers write to make it sound good and that you can talk to your part of the population. For the Social Democrats, it is essential to have a social dialogue, an agreement to come up with a smart solution. That's what's important to us. It doesn't matter how much we talk about workers' rights, about ugly capitalists and so on, but what we can finally agree on and where is the intersection where we can sort of agree on some smart solution. To remember, I will absolutely support this law. There is no debate at all. However, I am sorry that this did not come, and I believe that this would come if the unions continued to insist, and here, the Chamber of Commerce and employers, in some way, screwed up because they could agree without a problem, because this economy will absolutely not bury and would come to this realization with some normal agreement. I'm tired of listening to people who say, but now we're going to lose so many and so many jobs because of this; or if we don't drop the tax, we won't be competitive because people, companies are waiting for the border and they're going to come in. It's none of that! We haven't lost any jobs. Remember the VAT law when we raised two points? They said we'd lose jobs, GDP would go down. What happened to that? We have 16,000 jobs, our GDP is growing because we have raised VAT. So this theory is falling. The minimum wage that we have raised in 2010 by the Social Democrats, in contrast, and which is all so bad in this country – thank God we raised it then because some employers are taking advantage of this issue. Most employers don't take advantage. They only take advantage of guys who just don't know how to work, who don't know how to live. And a good firm is not the company that has good profits; a good firm is the one that has some smart people who hire them well and who can create more than just profit. Then we reduced the profits, we have the lowest profit for legal persons in Europe, almost the lowest. Are there investors waiting for us? He's not here! No investor came here for this profit tax! There's none. There's none. They're not coming to this country because of other things we have to solve. However, we may fall, in my opinion – those who watch credit ratings – because we are violating social dialogue, but it is not only the unions that are responsible. These various agencies, Fitch and so on, which they like best to see, if we don't know how to talk, then they turn on their alarms and they kind of raise our interest rates. But this is, in my opinion, a danger to our companies in these times, especially those who are export-oriented. The second problem we have, ladies and gentlemen, which we cannot solve, is demography. We can say so much more that gross wages must be reduced and so on, but we have so many older people who are retired and who also need to be filled with pension bills because they have also filled them for previous generations. And for this calculation, this mathematics that someone's going to invent to cover it all, I'm going to give the Nobel Prize for Economics, if I had a word, of course, and I don't have it. It's not easy to say that we're going to lower gross wages to make them net higher, because, you know, we also need a lot of money for pensioners to have pensions. It's not just Desus who's fighting for pensions, we're all fighting for pensions! That is why, thank God, we have a relatively good pension system, which will need to be changed slowly, but very slowly, for now, thank God, still holds. I will very easily support this marriage because those gentlemen who cannot pay the allowance for Sunday work hide it in minimum wage, they must pay the trade or give the company back. We know what they're about, the security companies, and we know who those guys that the gentlemen are, who own these security companies. However, the fact is that some companies do not get enough simple products in these times of crisis to better reward workers. Still, they need help and a feeling. For this 1%, what union representatives have said, I am absolutely not concerned and there is no tragedy. I also call on employers to understand that it is necessary to go back to the negotiating table to talk. Some of us know and realize that the main engine of the state is to fill GDP, that the economy is, that it is entrepreneurship and so on. However, this must be some kind of agreement that we are not yet able to agree on. And we politicians know how to influence the fact that there is no agreement. We who are more on the left are screaming around the workers, those who are more on the right, screaming around the capital, we're all going to have to step back. All of us on the left are talking about how this capital is ugly and so on, when the elections are, and we're all flying to the companies, and we're all taking pictures with the directors, how good these directors are, and the directors have to listen when they have problems. But, look, the smart director and the good director didn't call me: Matjaž, this marriage is stupid. No one called me. None of them called me. And I know a lot of good directors who have problems with good companies, they don't care, it's not the moment of Slovenian companies. The problem with Slovenian companies is somewhere else. Glass house Hrastnik, director of Christmas, from a company that had problems, made it due to some normal agreement with workers, due to the clever thinking of a company where all directors can start learning how to run companies. So I don't have a problem with that, but I have a problem with the fact that we've broken down the social dialogue that our minister, and whatever you say, has fought a lot, fought it, and signed it with all three sides. I think that social dialogue is just a solution. Here our unions, which tell us that the Social Democrats and trade unions are connected, have not done us the most services, but I believe that we will all be able to sit back at the table together and agree on those problems that really are a problem for our economy This matter is not a problem, because of this one job we will not lose, but if you buy a gentleman a meter shorter yacht and I do not have a problem with that. [[…]] [[…]] That's how the union is. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u87	It's over. Matjaž, you don't have to press buttons for too long. [[…]] The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, get Mr. Jan Mahnic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Well-welcome representatives of the Government, the proponents and colleagues and colleagues Members and Members of Parliament! I will also present one aspect of why I think that this path of what is today in the National Assembly is not right. So I agree that fundamental social dialogue should be not a proposal for a law in the National Assembly. However, I do not think it will be difficult for Members to decide and support this law, because we will use not only legal thinking but, above all, common sense, so that these inequalities, which were not able to be addressed in social dialogue, are provided by law. In fact, when we look at what the minimum wage is, its already historic role was to eliminate social inequality and to prevent underpayments. This was its fundamental purpose and still has been preserved in some way today. The Council of Europe has already adopted what is the norm, what is a fair payment – that is, what is the minimum wage – and said that this is 60% of the average net salary. In Europe or Slovenia, this average salary is EUR 1005. So the problem is in the low wage we have in Slovenia, because I can't imagine how you're going to spend your life with 500 or 600 euros. This is actually the guiding principle that Members of Parliament are leading us to support this issue. The problem is also that, particularly in creating this dialogue, all social partners understand the purpose and importance of social pay differently. In particular, workers and trade unions understand this as a social role and a fair payment, employers here are not uniform, and the country generally understands this as a macroeconomic policy, an institution with which they regulate. But in Slovenia, when we passed the Minimum Pay Act, we did not decide that it was an institution of macroeconomic policy, but we decided and wrote in the law that we were protecting the social and material security of employees with it. So, we have stood up, I suppose, in view of the fact that we are a social state, at this level, to protect the weaker. But I'm saying there's nothing wrong with marriage. The provision, as it is written, is perfectly fine, there are no mistakes in it. It is that this provision is interpreted very differently and here I see the problem and I also see that employers are violating it, because when we look at the definition only, it says that the minimum wage is the minimum full-time payment. So the smallest payment, so the payment can be higher, and full-time is all that is not work over full-time. So there's some extras in it. So employers have all the mechanisms to pay for this supplement, and they are obliged to pay it even if it exceeds the minimum wage. The minimum wage is not the upper limit, but is the minimum legal payment for the work done. That's why I'm saying there's nothing wrong with the marriage. Employers abused it. However, I must also say, unionists, unfortunately, that, but perhaps I also ask you, that when an employer violates the law and does not fulfil his obligations, we have in the Labour Relations Act legal protection of workers who may require such supplements to be paid to them. However, I would like to know whether you helped the workers to enforce these remedies, which is said to be first to the employer and later to the court, because the employer is obliged to pay for it. So the minimum amount for full-time work, but if it goes beyond that, of course, they have to pay it. Secondly, what colleagues have already said, I cannot help but say that social dialogue has been broken. Indeed, wages are one of the subjects of social dialogue and are therefore intended to create some balance. These are macroeconomic policy instruments. In fact, each of the social partners must somehow give up on their primary objectives. In fact, we have established the Economic and Social Council. When I looked at the agreement, which was signed for 2015 and 2016, you were all the applicants of this law also signed. It was signed this February 2015. As far as wages were concerned, there was no speech that anything was wrong with them, some of the principled things in there were mentioned. And you have also pledged to respect this agreement and actually re-check it this year. That is why I believe that the only way is the right path – especially because employers say they will break this agreement, we know what this can mean – so I say that this is not the right way to decide in Parliament. I believe that if this was the role of the union to propose laws, the legislator would probably have given you this opportunity, but he did not give you this option, and in fact we should do so at the negotiating table and talk there, and in particular protect the rights of workers, as the law already gives us the option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u89	The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Andrea Poje.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the social agreement itself, I would like to point out that we are not violating it. We wanted to agree with employers to agree three-partitely on how the allowances should be excluded from the minimum wage. All the proposals that we have proposed have been unacceptable to employers, so there is no minimum wage in the social agreement we have signed; not in any place. We've eliminated all the elements that would touch the minimum wage in any way. As far as wages are concerned as you've determined, there's no talking about it. There is not one word on minimum wage on the plan, because the past agreements, the social agreements we signed, all had minimum wage provisions. We're not in violation of the social agreement. This has also been found by the European Commission. Once again, the Council’s recommendations of 14 July, as published in the Official Journal of the EU C27/6, state that the social agreement concluded in January 2015 does not regulate the composition and indexation of minimum wages. And we are not in any way in breach of the social agreement or of the social agreement that we have adopted on a tripartite basis. However, I must point out that, for example, the Chamber of Economics has not even approached to discuss and negotiate a social agreement and has not been involved, so I do not think it has the right to comment on the social agreement itself. So much so that we do not violate what we have committed ourselves to, and we believe that this social agreement, which we have adopted and signed, is extremely good, and we hope it will come true. But with regard to legal protection, I have to admit, we haven't been looking for him. For, as I explained earlier, the minimum wage is defined for full-time work, which means that all the allowances are included. If all the components of the salary do not reach the amount of EUR 790.73 gross, the employer must pay the difference to the full minimum wage. As a result, this injustice confronts those employees on a minimum wage, that no matter whether they work under night, Sunday or holiday work, they do not have paid this supplement specifically to the minimum wage. Therefore, the amount for all is the same, regardless of the conditions under which they work. And yes, there are examples, and I think that's the only way to solve this problem. For the purpose of writing down exactly what are the other supplements that are in the framework of Article 128 of the Labour Relations Act, they belong, in particular, to indicate which are in addition to the overtime in the Minimum Wages Act, which we have also done and what is ahead of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u91	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Unionist, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about some foundation of this society, we are talking about economic freedom. If we have already decided on democracy, if we have decided on a democracy based on private property, which is, of course, right, we are with some measures that have not been implemented and because of the financial situation of many individuals, our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens, somehow, I can say, we are also moving away from this economic freedom, which, of course, is the basis for further freedoms of political, personal and others. I will support this proposal, and I must also say that I do not oppose such union engagement; even more, I think it is more democratic. There must be an absolute need for the Economic and Social Council, where one and the other are talking, but here at the end we say the words Members, we will talk about this proposal, we have obviously discussed it, we have agreed that we will support it, which is of course democratic, but usually in the Economic and Social Council, where the Government usually either one or the other comes with its proposal, and never such a proposal, there is always a distorted matter, so that the wolf is usually sat, the goat whole, but never anyone is most satisfied. When Mr Trček spoke – I agree with this, it will be necessary to establish some short- and long-term measures, because with such fire-fighting measures I do not know what we can call it, whether it is a short-term measure or a long-term measure, ten years has been required, ten years has not been put under the roof. [[…]] Now, if this is a long-term measure, given that it has lasted ten years, I am concerned that we are not achieving any of the essence of this economic freedom, which I was talking about earlier, in order to extend it to certain individuals. However, if there is a short-term measure, I am also concerned that it will not have a significant effect. In principle, we agree, we have seen this today, but there are different parties and different paths. In principle, we agree on the objective, but there are different ways that we do not agree on how to achieve this objective. I will support this proposal. But when I have the opportunity, I call on the unions to join your young people, that's called the Youth Plus Union, where we've been having a bit of a conflict over traineeships lately, they're engaged just like you. I see it as a positive engagement of the unions. Not only is this being criticised, but you prepare proposals, you collect the signatures of the electorate and the electorate, you submit and then this is where the matter is debated. Even if your young people think that they have the best proposal for a law on traineeship, they should write it down, they put it in the text of the law, they collect 5,000 signatures and then it is discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u93	Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I'd kind of have two basic points. The first thing that seems a little positive to me here, and more capitalistly, is how it dealt with something that was trying to settle with a referendum, is how it worked. Because if we look at it, given that at least the minimum wage somehow didn't make any difference, whether it's work for a holiday, whether it's work on Sundays, or working at night – now we're expecting this difference to happen. For example, when there was a talk about whether someone should work on Sundays, when there was a talk about whether someone, say, a holiday trader, or whether security guards should work at night and so on, this might have been done in a somewhat more violent way. Here's to the real market-economic. Work for a holiday or on Sunday or at night costs a little more, at the level of the owner or manager, is to calculate what is worth it and how it is worth it. In this way, we can also come to the point that in some soft business way, it comes to people, not to call it abuse, but to the same cost at a time that is significantly less appropriate for them. It's Sunday, the holidays, the nights and so on. This is why I agree with this measure because it goes according to the right principles; it is said that those we are now using are marketed that work at a time worse has a different heading than that which is at a completely normal time. On this account, we may have a store for the weekend or for a holiday less open, a shopping center, perhaps a little more at home, a family problem solved more. From this, however, I expect some positive externalists who go on completely market terms and may somehow be promised. Another thing I see here may be inferior, but from the employers' point of view, in recent years, there has also somehow been one such term that is called mobiling. One aspect of a mobile is how you assign workers, when they work — from this point of view, it is said, when they work, will have some consequences for the employer. I think that also the distribution of workers in this way, says the one that you might want to put in a slightly worse position at work, will also have consequences for the employer who will have to give more for such a worker, may work under worse conditions, but will also have more for himself and his family. If we move forward as far as expectations are concerned. Today, it has already been mentioned as regards other measures, what is happening to decommission the economy and so on. My position is, of course, that the unloading must be adopted simultaneously, or that in some way the additional burden must be adopted at the same time as the loads. That is to say, what we have already talked about in the National Assembly and also in preparation, and I believe that by the end of the year, there will be a tax procedure here, concerning amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, where one measure related to exports is also envisaged, that some EUR 32 million will go towards more liquidity in the economy, as well as some other measures. After all, we have in the SMC, and in our programme it is also written in the coalition contract that we will review the loads and unload the work. This will certainly be one of the steps that will then somehow, we can say, through shifting the tax burden, through shifting the burden on businesses, lead to this effect being neutral for businesses and positive for people. As I say, I support this proposal. Among other things, because I think that – previously mentioned by colleague Weber – one of the findings is that those who earn less when they earn something more go more or less to spend it all on those basic goods. Recently, as you know, since the crisis, we have had problems in Slovenia with consumption. This spending, if they have more in their accounts each month, will also rise slightly in their account. Thus, they will be better, the economy will be better, and the country will eventually be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u95	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Today's debates took place in some sense, as my colleague said, that the stone was still crying. Indeed, we have not experienced such emotional outbursts in any law that touched the most vulnerable. And this marriage is not the only one that touches the most vulnerable. I'm surprised the unions brought this to the National Assembly, not in a negative sense. On the one hand, it is positive, on the other hand, that it is inappropriate for the Government and certain coalition parties to say how appropriate the law is, how this law is needed, and, on the other hand, almost nothing has been done in this area. I would have expected, given the emotional outflows that have been made today, that this would have been brought to the National Assembly as otherwise, but I would certainly have expected the matter to proceed in a reduced manner. Here I also have to agree with one of my colleagues who said that this debate today really does not matter, given that we have all said that we definitely support the matter, that it is on the right track – and that there will be no mistake, I will certainly support it. Actually, I mean, like I said, it's not the first law we're going to support in the party or we're going to put it into a procedure that touches the most vulnerable. Let me remind you of the law that we, or the proposed amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act, where we talked about the most vulnerable, that is, the oldest, those who do not apply for a protection allowance precisely because they are afraid to take away their property or that they will be even more burdened. At the time, you said that this was a terrible and best social law and that you would not change that. At the same time today, he mentioned that you represent the most vulnerable groups. I don't know why then, in those laws that were proposals, you said they were bad marriages. As once again, I stress the safeguards and social assistance, where the coalition has gladly rejected all our proposals that have just touched vulnerable groups. This morning, when Mr. Duck said we were dealing with the unions. I can't exactly agree with him here that the debate was either barren or in the wrong direction. Indeed, we have talked about the fact that members of some unions have a 20% higher anniversary prize or social assistance. Doesn't that seem unfair to you? Is that all right? So if you're a member of a certain union, you have some benefits, and that's the most vulnerable, and the jubilee awards, or if you're not a real union member or you're not even a union member, you don't get that supplement or you get 20% less. I think this record has changed a lot since 8:00, 9:00 this morning, 2:00 in some. Once you speak, let us be gentle and so on, and on the other hand you reject proposals that also concern us. Look, if you're representing vulnerable groups, I would really expect the coalition and the government to come up with proposals like the union came in today. With proposals that really help the most vulnerable, and that is why consumption will rise in them, it seems to me a little - I believe that they will breathe more easily, but that consumption will not increase as dramatically as has been said. During this debate, there were quite a few e-mails, and so on, that the people accompanying them do not even know what we are talking about. For all of them, there are quite a few — to talk about increasing the minimum wage. And we don't say, or no one says that all these supplements have been billed, but they haven't been paid, and now the minimum wage won't go up, but people don't understand it. Everyone thinks we're increasing the minimum wage. No, the minimum wage remains, my dears, and those who did not give this message, of course not, because you have read the basics of marriage and I don't know what everything and taught us when there was a collective agreement, and you know how these vulnerable groups live, you didn't say that. All that's gonna happen now is they're just gonna get paid with this extra, so night work. I agree that it is wrong for those who do night work not to have this paid, but in certain professions I have to say when you choose a certain profession, you know what you're doing. You also know you're going to night work, you know you're going to work at night, but it's true — I mean, not that feeling when you're poor, you're sleeping, you're going to have to work. I agree, but when you go, say, to the inn, you know you'll be working in the afternoon, even at night, but it's not right that this isn't paid. That's a long way from here. I would just like to say that I hope that the coalition, especially the Government, will come with such laws that will burden the economy, that the Minister will have as little work as possible in the field of social affairs or with those laws or measures that will reduce or help poverty. So, I expect the economy to be unloaded as soon as possible, I believe that you are capable of doing so both in the coalition and in the government, so that you will settle matters in such a way that such proposals will not have to be discussed in the National Assembly. One more thing, even if you're representing vulnerable groups, I'd like to ask you a question. When will you start dealing with those who earn a minimum wage in two hours? Which earns €218 an hour – if you read the media today, you know what I'm talking about. I'm talking about Mr. Kos, who earns a minimum wage in two hours. When are you gonna start dealing with this, coalition? When will the union begin its work — and the government? These are questions, too. I'm sorry, questions. I'm sorry. Talk, we know vulnerable groups, sounds good. I have to say that I agree with Mr. Jursha who said he knows what it's like to have a low salary there at the beginning. I know. I've never been angry that they have such high wages because you know you're going somewhere with hard work. But 218 euros an hour, so I think we should all be busy. Two hours' minimum wage! Explain that to the people! How we allow these things in the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, we deal with those who earn 600 euros, and with pensioners who have minimum pensions, where their protective allowance is reduced or blocked together. And there's one more thing. The following is a point on the social problem of young people or the housing problem of young people. I want to know which side of the board they're turning to and which side of the board this side is going to turn to at the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate. The representative of the Government, Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, now gives the floor to her. You won't? You don't want to. And then, Mrs Mag's proposer has the floor. Andrea Poje.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to make a few more clarifications on the basis of the debate. She would have touched the elevator in 2010. It is often in the public eye to see that this was an unjustifiable increase of 23%. I would like to point out that at that time the minimum wage was €597 gross or €460 net for a month of hard work and with all the allowances included. At that time, the European Committee on Social Rights – Slovenia, not us, Slovenia – reminded us that we are violating the right to equal pay. I would like to say, when it comes to the inappropriate amount of Slovenian minimum wage, that the Committee on Social Rights has established the main criteria for assessing compliance with Article 4(1) of the Charter, namely the European Social Charter, which provides for the right to a fair payment and says that this requirement for the provision of a decent standard of living is met if the net minimum wage is more than 60 % of the net average wage in the country. Therefore, these OECD opinions are misleading or, as members of this European Committee on Social Rights have pointed out, unacceptable because they do not move within binding international legal frameworks and do not comply with international standards. Thus, these OECD minimum wage standards are unacceptable from the perspective of human rights. In fact, Slovenia is one of the few countries that no longer violates this Convention and the European Social Charter. With regard to salary burdens, we have been working for a long time in the unions to relieve wages, so we are in fact supporting employers' initiatives after net wages have been drained, which will, of course, be after labour costs have been reduced, after wages have been drained, which will increase purchasing power and demand. However, I would like to point out in this connection to the minimum wage that, for example, only a measure to raise net minimum wages would not eliminate the injustice faced by employees on minimum wages. In fact, as agreed in the Social Agreement, it is necessary to approach the burden of work as soon as possible and thus higher wages and higher purchasing power. At the same time, I would point out once again that it is not really about raising the minimum wage in general, except for the three supplements belonging to employees at night, Sunday and on holidays. It is an ideal time for change, since inflation was only 0.2% this year, which means that the minimum wage in January rose by only €1.58 gross and €1 net, which is why the time for change is ideal. Finally, I would like to express my sincere thanks to everyone on behalf of all the workers who will be greatly affected by this definition of these three supplements. I must point out that many times they feel completely forgotten and abandoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait a minute. I'm sorry. Because I see that the wishes for the debate are mags if you want to discuss the proposal's representative. Andrea Poje and the representative of the government, please report with a raise. In this case you will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Before the application, I would like to remind you that there will be no visible names on the screen for the debate, so we will receive from the on-call room in a few moments a list of the reported debaters, which will be prepared by the system in a random order. So I'm asking you to sign up. I inform you that they have applied for the debate: Mr Saša Tabaković, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mrs Ljudmila Novak and Mr Luka Mesec. Each debater has five minutes of time available. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u100	Your Honor, thank you for your word. When I listened to the debate today, I also heard some comments in the sense that a person does not need to be particularly smart to fully understand this issue, that the facts speak for themselves. Personally, I think that a person has to be very smart to understand the world comprehensively, no matter what education he has, and that the facts never speak for themselves, of course, but the facts speak for themselves as much as the attention is given to them. Regrettably, in recent years, this problem has received considerable attention from both the left and right governments. It surprises me, therefore, when my colleague Godec speaks of the fact that we Members have been very tearfully discussing this subject in a way that makes the stone cry when he listens to us. However, he happily boasts about the fact that the SDS Group has been making laws joyfully for the past year and that no one can hear them or see them. Or perhaps because this same stone would cry if you were reading these suggestions. However, of course, I am pleased that today we are Members of Parliament on this issue, i.e. on the issue of minimum wage, have found a common language and that we will support this proposal today. This is what is at the heart of this debate. This is also what the proposer wanted when he came to the National Assembly with this bill. In this sense, I can say that I am pleased today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u102	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear guests, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The minimum wage is, in my opinion, a problem in itself. Sometimes we were taught that the labour relationship also belongs to the market where supply and demand are encountered, as well as that a good worker is rewarded by the employer; in the end, the country is forced to adopt a minimum wage law that defines a certain amount of payment so that this worker can survive at all. Because if there is no restriction, it is obvious that the employer is forcing the worker even into some kind of slave relationship. The consequences of this fact are that production has moved to some countries where these restrictions are not or where the minimum wages are extremely low; but this is once again another aspect of this issue. But if I go back to the Minimum Wages Act and even to the question of whether legal remedies have ever been used in this matter before, I can say that they have been, because I myself have met this issue. I was approached by a lady who worked as a waitress, and by another lady who worked as a merchant, and they told me that a lot of work was done at night, during the holidays, on Sundays; but they didn't get any allowance. And when I myself, in my previous role as a lawyer, thought about whether to press charges, I found that the case law says that all these supplements are already included in the minimum wage. This is the case law. We were taught one principle in law school, which is supposed to be to promote labour law – and favour the laboratory; it is called doubting the worker’s benefit. I am sure that this case law has not been such; and I am afraid that judicial practice has somehow bypassed this principle in recent times. The Court, which referred to this minimum wage and those allowances, which are included or not, said that the minimum wage is one social adjustment. This is the minimum that the worker gets if he works; even if he works at night or at holidays. But I wonder what the social adjustment is if a worker who does not fall into the minimum wage system because of a few Euros gets all the supplements. I'm a little critical of this case law. Of course, the judges will pay us back, and they will say - since the Law on Minimum Wage was passed in the National Assembly, you have accepted it. And no matter what, we're gonna clear these accounts today. However, I must also address the debate of my colleague Godec, who spoke in terms of – because everyone knows where he is going, because he knows that he will work at night. You know, we have a whole bunch of unemployed people, and they're happy to be able to work anywhere. And to say that everyone knows where he is going is the least inappropriate and improper in view of the information that we still have a large number of unemployed people who are hard to find a job and who are happy to be able to work at all. As for those debates that some deserve EUR 218 per hour, I suggest or expect you to be in the SDS to limit this by law. But I believe you won't, because that debate is completely over. I'd be happy to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u104	Your Honor, very nice to meet you. But who should be so that those who work more at night, on holidays and Sundays, would not receive these supplements? We will also support this in Novi Slovenija, although we also know another side of the medal. Surely EUR 600 net salary is very low, and I believe that people are having a very difficult time with this. I would allow anyone to have at least a thousand euros of net minimum wages or pensions, as some promised years ago. I was concerned about something else when I listened to the calculations of some that perhaps those for whom we stand, so the workers, would not benefit the most. If they work more, if they have more supplements, they will fall into a higher income class and most of that will be cashed by the state. I've heard that in the media, according to some calculations; and I'm interested. You're nodding, you're saying no; I'm very glad if that doesn't happen. On the other hand, I wonder if this country has done everything? Are we as politicians, or have government parties done everything? Most pardons I hear right from the customers who have been on the government for the longest time leading this resort – SD and Desus. Desus in all governments has not known since what year, the SD has been running this ministry for quite some time; this is a false sympathy for me. And to blame us for supporting capitalists – who were sometimes the directors and who became the tycoons?Oh, my God! We support honest employers who pay their workers fairly, we support them because we know how important jobs are; and we will not have pensions, nor social allowances, unless we support economies and honest employers. They also realize that people will do well and honestly if they pay them both well and honestly. I meet a lot of them in the field. However, those who do not pay for basic things and actually exploit people must take care of them both by inspection services and by competent authorities. That is why I say that the country, including us politicians, ruling parties, has a lot of work to do. The economy continues to impose its demands on what would help to improve the situation in the economy, and very little has been heard. On all the scales of the competitiveness of economic freedom and I do not know what else we are in very low places. And that's getting worse. Thank God that many export and thus save our economy, jobs and the state budget. It is a crime to declare employers unknowable, as is often the case in this House, for those who work from morning to evening, who care about how they will pay workers who pay their minimum wages many times so that they can take care of others who cannot forgive those who do bad work and do harm to them; who cannot reward those who do better for doing so. All of this we have to think about, and all of this is our job to adopt laws that will promote an economy that will create new jobs. Those who invest in development always say that they are capitalists who sit on piles of money. Those who are successful invest in development because they need to be competitive in order to withstand this competition. That is why I think that our rhetoric needs to change a lot too and that we need to do much more than just fake solidarity; and nothing or very little to do to improve these relations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you. The word has Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting for the last time on my side today. First of all, I would like to welcome the practical plenary support of this trade centre measure to exclude night work allowances, overtime, holiday work and so on from the definition of minimum wage. I am pleased that all political parties support this and that we are aware that the current regime is criminal and that it needs to be rectified. But more than thinking forward, I would point to one thing. Most of the debaters I listened to expressed support on condition or on finding that we support this measure because this measure does not mean that the minimum wage is raised. I can agree with this conclusion, but I cannot take it as the main argument for this measure, or I cannot take it as the main argument in general, because I think it goes completely wrong. I will only give a few points in advance to think; I think it would be wise to think not only about removing these supplements from the minimum wage; in the United Left we will go further and we will propose an exception to all the supplements. In addition, it would make sense to consider raising the minimum wage in these times. There are a number of reasons for this. The first type of reason is that the benefits of economic growth, since we have it again in Slovenia, have been very unevenly distributed. If we look at the last year, we will see that GDP grew by 3.5% during the year and wages increased by only 1.7% during the same period. If I translate this into GDP – the share of wages fell from 51 % to 50 % of GDP, the share of capital increased from 37,4 % to 37,9 % of GDP. Here we see at the level of one year that wages are falling, the share of profits or capital in GDP is rising. The second thing we need to be aware of is that austerity measures, the resolution of the financial sector with public finances, and so on, have left serious wounds mainly on the weakest groups of the population during the crisis. Again, data show that the risk of social exclusion in Slovenia is still 20.4%, or 410 thousand, and the risk of poverty reaches 14.5% and 290 thousand, respectively, while the level of serious material deprivation reaches as much as 130,000. And here it is symptomatic that among these socially disadvantaged 20% of the people who are working are working. We have the appearance of poor employees, mostly people on minimum wages, which means that the current level of minimum wage does not meet certain living needs in this country. If I go further from social to economic reasons; if we look at the world situation, we see that the growth of the Slovenian economy is currently based mainly on exports and the suppression of domestic demand. But exports are quite fragile and in the long run they will not remain on these fabulous 7% surpluses that we now have. All the countries in the European Union are now plaguing. Those who have deficits are squeezing domestic consumption and trying to offset it, which hinders our exports. On the other hand, the BRICS-Russia and Brazil are in recession, China is cooling down, and indirectly our exports are declining there. The financial balloons are again inflated, so many warn against the possibility of a renewed financial crisis in the West. This would affect Slovenia, and if we depend solely on exports, it will be quite a shock for our economy. It is therefore appropriate to consider an alternative development model, which should at least partly be based on domestic demand, at this time until it is too late. We had such an example in 1992 after the loss of Yugoslav markets when Slovenia was in recession. From the transition recession in the first two years of transition, it was precisely driven by an increase in wages, which was 8% and which led to between four and five percent economic growth in those years without causing macroeconomic imbalances. This is a policy that makes sense to think about today, but we can start with a minimum wage because the minimum wage is the anchor of the entire pay system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day, it's a bill to solve the housing problem of young people in the first defense. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we introduced the Youth Housing Problem Resolution Act and followed one of the promises we made to the voters and voters before last year's early parliamentary elections. The reason for this law was my question to the government, where I asked them how many of them live in direct or direct state ownership and how many of them are occupied or how free. And then I got the answer that the Housing Commission has currently 51 unoccupied apartments, Ministry of the Interior 110, Ministry of Defence 265, Ministry of Justice 8. In total, there are currently 434 unoccupied dwellings owned directly by the State. And of these 434 apartments were allocated, when I got this answer, in the first half of this year, it was waiting for 27 candidates to move in. [[…]] 188 of these apartments were envisaged for sale in 2015 and 219 were foreseen for the lease. Minister Zvonko Černač, Minister of Infrastructure at the time of the second Janša government, intended to make a similar proposal, but the mandate ended prematurely, so we are now introducing this law; after one year of the government's mandate. Our key solutions are to enable young people to rent. We know that the housing problem of young people is a pressing issue, especially since the crisis has led to an increase in youth unemployment. As a result, of course, the percentage of young people living in the so - called Mama Hotel has increased, as parents do not have the means to go on their own. In the law we propose to transfer dwellings in indirect, direct state ownership to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia within three years of the formula: 50% in 2015, 30% in 2016 and 20% in 2017. The Housing Fund will then prepare everything necessary for the call. The condition is that these are young families and young individuals under 35 years of age, with the advantage of a young family and those who are socially disadvantaged among these young families. It is essential that young people, after being in this tenant’s apartment for 5 years, also have the opportunity to buy this apartment after the age of five, with all paid rent counted as a ransom price. We believe that such a proposal is realistic in order to help reduce this type of problem and that it would also have a positive impact on the state budget, as the country is currently paying and has costs with these unoccupied apartments, some of which are not currently in the best condition. I hope you will see in the ruling coalition the need for this. Since the law will probably not be adopted today, as is evident from the opinion or other comments made by the ZPS and the Government, it gives me at least the hope that we will open this subject today, we have practically not discussed the housing problems of young people in this mandate, and we will now also get this national housing programme. It is time for us to discuss these matters honestly as well. As an MEP and other SDS colleagues alone, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u109	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u110	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the Ministry of Environment and Space we are well aware of the complexity of the housing problem in the Republic of Slovenia. In the last year, we have been actively working on the preparation of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme for the period 2015-2025. The government accepted it in September and we sent it to the National Assembly for further consideration. In doing so, I would like to point out that, unlike the proposed law before us, the resolution pays particular attention to creating conditions to ensure the quality of residence for the various target groups. By intertwined actions in various priority areas, in the form of comprehensive packages of approach to solving housing problems, several population groups – young, elderly, vulnerable groups. The measures concern increasing the accessibility of the rental housing fund and the provision of public rental apartments in larger employment centres as the need for housing is greatest. Through the so-called Youth Scheme, we have foreseen concrete measures in the area of youth housing. I will list only some: a programme to build residential communities for young people, to provide favourable rental apartments, to rent with later purchases, shared ownership instruments and others. That is why we oppose the proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members. We believe that the proposal is inappropriate and in practice impractical. The reason for the opposition is quite something. The proposal seeks to address housing issues in a partial manner; that is, for only one of the vulnerable groups of the population, which already has the possibility of obtaining a suitable place of residence by the public sector by means of existing legislation. The market is not the only solution as presented. The proposed transfer of the right of administration is contrary to the current Real Estate Management Strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and does not comply with the recent amendments and updates to the State Administration Act, which provides for the centralisation of real estate management within the Ministry of Public Administration. However, it is contrary to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. It should be pointed out that service apartments are a special category of dwellings designed to address the housing needs of public officials and civil servants. This instrument also makes it possible to employ participants who do not have a permanent residence in the place of employment, among other things. This circle of beneficiaries, however, mainly includes young people who are at the beginning of their careers and who are otherwise unable to resolve the housing issue. It is also a problematic basis for the preparation of a proposal for the law in question. The applicant shall draw data from the records of the Ministry of Public Administration and shall only reflect the current state of vacant residences; their employment in the short term shall be variable and shall not be a matter of permanent unoccupied dwellings. It is the apartments that will be leased, whether they are in the process of sale, or whether renovations are needed. In fact, there are no permanently unoccupied residences from the Housing Commission Fund. With regard to the transfer of property to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia by the Bank Management Company, however, we believe that there are several reasons for a problematic and unacceptable intervention into the ownership of a separate legal entity which could, inter alia, result in a significant deterioration in its ability to pay creditors. We also believe that the management of housing by the Housing Commission is not an activity that generates loss and burdens on the budget, but creates its own rent income; it is intended to restore the housing fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u111	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The proposal was made by the opposition parliamentary group. I would rather expect such a proposal from the government. We can see that the government boasts of helping young people gain jobs. But when we analyze the situation in detail, we see that it is more about self-employment and that it is about some work that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u113	It doesn't sound good, it could be a little closer to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u114	Second, we see that we have a problem in young people that, by the age of 35 – according to statistics in Slovenia, the forerunners in this are staying at home at the burden of the family and that somehow they cannot make up for themselves mainly because they do not get a job, and the other is difficult to solve the housing problem. The proposal seems to me to be a good foundation, including a good idea – those apartments that are empty to some extent mean a burden to the country. For that plan that was presented to us, we need money that, of course, we don't have to build again. Looking at housing trends, we've built too much in principle. If we look at it from the very beginning, there are about 2 million of us, each year we have built so many and so many apartments, sumarum sumarum – we already have too many apartments. If I look ahead, I can see that the law is a good foundation, of course it will have to be completed, obtained the relevant data and analysed the situation in order to set a precise starting point. I looked at a Dutch case where they did something similar — helping young people to solve their housing problem. As we see now, according to statistics, young people do not stay at home until such age. It is also possible to work; it is also possible to promote the work of young people. And this is what then – we are already at the previous point – accelerate the economy and economic development. I'm afraid these empty apartments are falling apart according to broken windows theory; thus, the social environment is falling apart with empty apartments and the neighborhoods are falling apart and sleeping settlements are becoming good for secondary crime. Since it is necessary to encourage the work of young people, their active action, we believe that the foundation is good and we will be at this stage, it is said at first reading, that the proposal is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u115	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Secretary; distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Many countries deal with the housing problem of young people, especially during and after the economic crisis, when young people find it difficult to obtain their first job and their first salary. On the other hand, it is difficult for young people who are employed to obtain a loan for the first solution to the housing problem because of a credit crunch. The housing problem of young people is therefore a cause of poor financial conditions for young people, since those who do not have these problems do not usually have a housing problem. On the other hand, young people with the same social status differ from others because they are in a period of family creation, making it necessary for the State to have a special service to them. For many years Slovenia has been committed to providing housing to socially disadvantaged people in the form of renting non-profit apartments, where young people and families are preferred as a priority category of applicants, and housing issues are also addressed within the framework of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in accordance with its business policy, finances and implements the national housing programme, promotes housing, renovation and maintenance of housing and housing. It is worth noting, however, that the role of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of the resolution of the housing problem of young people in 2012 has also been curtailed as the Public Finance Balance Act or the ZUJF has suspended the implementation of the National Housing Savings and Subsidies Act to young families for the first time in the resolution of the housing issue. The State thus provides for savings in the national housing savings scheme only under contracts concluded prior to the entry into force of the ZUJF-A. Coalition parties have committed to further addressing the housing problem of young people in the coalition agreement, where the coalition parties have agreed to prepare a new national housing programme that will be able to respond to the current housing needs for individual housing categories; in particular young, young families, even older ones, and households with incomes under certain censorship. The motion for a resolution on the national housing programme 2015-2025 was 11. 9. 2015 has already been invested in the National Assembly and will be dealt with in a short time. The motion for a resolution pays great attention to creating conditions to ensure quality of stay for young people, where it is primarily encouraged to rent and establish a new housing policy; on the other hand, there is a set of measures to continue renting and the possibility to regulate the functional adaptation of residential buildings to cohabitation under the so-called Youth Scheme, which provides for the following measures: a programme to build residential communities for young people, to provide favourable rentals in areas where the demand for young people is highest, to rent later purchases, to share ownership, to change national spatial policies and to local spatial acts, and to allow for changes in one-stop buildings suitable for multi-family buildings. The proposer introduced a law in the National Assembly to assist young and young families in solving the housing problem, both by means of a proposal. The law, which consists of only seven articles and which is contained in only five articles, provides for a legally weak and flat-rate transfer of housing by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to the Special Fund of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, is legally insufficient, since it further provides that young families and individuals and individuals who have not yet reached the age of 35 are entitled to rent apartments from the special fund; as an incentive for the first resolution of the housing problem. Despite its attractive title, the bill does not solve the housing problem of young people, but makes it more difficult because of its imperfections and resulting in incompetence and conflict with other laws. The law does not provide for any transfer of dwellings to a special fund of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia; it is a general term which can be interpreted as a transfer of ownership right or as a transfer to management. Of course, neither is written down. The bill further does not define the term 'unoccupied housing' because it wants to move unoccupied dwellings, since, according to the explanation, it also covers dwellings that have already been allocated, and the beneficiaries have not yet taken over them, as well as dwellings that are in the sales process and so on. The bill is also contrary to recent amendments to the Law on State Administration, which provides for the centralisation of the management of immovable property within the Ministry of Public Administration and contrary to the adopted State Property Management Strategy, as well as against the Law on Police Organisation and Work and the Regulation on the Management of Military Property. Given these shortcomings and the measures already taken to put the draft resolution on the national housing programme into the National Assembly, the SMC Group cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u117	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u118	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have been drawing attention to an increasingly serious problem among young people in the field of employment, self-reliance and education since the beginning of this term of office of the National Assembly. We also have the National Youth Programme, which was adopted in the National Assembly on 24 October 2013, almost unanimously, I think by three votes against. We note that the implementation of the National Youth Programme is insufficient and is late. This is demonstrated by the reactions of youth organisations and the fact that the implementation plans for each year are adopted too late or only in the middle of the current year, as was the case this year. Speaking of young people, we must also point out that the Government of Mir Cerar should, in the first half of this year, implement the call for the creation of a recording and recognition of the informal knowledge provided for in the Youth Guarantee Implementation Plan. This would ensure public validity and recognition of the working experience of the temporary and occasional work of students and students. There is no invitation to tender, but to this day the government of Mira Cerar has put an additional burden on the student work with the novel ZUJF. The government says young people are a priority, but this is certainly not seen in practice. However, those measures, which were for young people, were unfortunately negative, such as the already mentioned extra taxation of student work for over-indebtedness. The government also deceives when it speaks about reducing youth unemployment. Nor does the government want an intergenerationally coordinated policy in the future, as it rejects initiatives to include a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council. We have repeatedly proactively taken a proactive approach to addressing the youth problem in the Parliamentary Joint Slovenian Democratic Party. I would point out three solutions in the field of traineeships, dual education, change in student nutrition; unfortunately, the ruling coalition did not have the political will and the desire to work together for the best solutions. Instead, it shifts all decisions to an indefinite future, to a future; it says that all the data collected must be carefully studied and analysed. This time in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have prepared a proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people. According to research by Mladina 2010 and Youth 2013, trends in this area are becoming more worrying and international comparison shows that as many as two thirds of young people in Slovenia live with their parents. Bad statistics are recorded only in Greece. We have been waiting for the national housing programme for six years and it must be said that this is no longer the case. So we have prepared solutions that will be much better than today’s situation. By the Government of the Republic of Slovenia we have received an answer that there are currently 434 unoccupied apartments, 51 of them are owned by the Housing Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, 110 by the Ministry of Interior, 265 by the Ministry of Defence and 8 by the Ministry of Justice. Of these 434 unoccupied dwellings, 219 apartments are provided for renting. On the basis of these data, we have decided not to wait any longer for the government, but to take a proactive approach to solving this problem, which also follows the promises we have made to the voters and voters in our pre-election programme. The aim of the law is to provide young and young families with the possibility of renting housing by transferring the apartments in their own previously mentioned bodies to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia after the 50% formula this year, 30% in 2016 and 20% in 2017. Such transferred apartments would be intended for young and young families under 35 years of age and the youngest child should not be older than five years of age. We know that the country has the costs of these apartments, which depend on the size of the apartment, the way it is heated and the location as well. We have calculated that if the country leased all these apartments to young people, it would save 260 000 euros annually. In addition, we propose to transfer to the Housing Fund empty flats owned by the DUTB and that these apartments also be handed over in the same formula, so that young and young families have the opportunity to buy these apartments after five years; that they become owners and that all the rents they have paid are considered as a ransom price. We have foreseen that the Housing Fund must issue an invitation to tender for rent within three months of the entry into force of the law. Mr Cernač, former Infrastructure Minister, has already put forward a proposal for such a law; but, unfortunately, no action has taken place since the early conclusion of the mandate of the other Janša government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law that has been introduced into the first reading and we call on all of us to move together and through the legislative process find the best solutions for our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u119	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister Irena Majcen with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Desus Group, at the proposal of its young man before the start of parliamentary holidays, has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people, after which unoccupied state dwellings would be available to young families and those in a poor social situation; and it would also be possible to redeem. The same objective shall also be to transfer to the Housing Fund empty apartments owned by the Bank's Claims Management Company. At this meeting of the National Assembly, we are considering three proposals relating to housing issues: the amendment of the Housing Law, the amendment of the Law on Public Funds and, as already mentioned, the proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people submitted by SDS Members. Nevertheless, it is worth acknowledging that, despite the good intentions of the applicants, the latter's proposal is the most inappropriate, in practice impractical and contradictory, as it mixes several housing categories; some of the objectives resulting from it are completely contrary. In the Desus Group, we estimate that it is not possible to expect that the purchase could be afforded to young people with a poor social status. Unfortunately, from their social situation, they do not have the means to purchase. Such a solution is also contrary to the fundamental objective pursued by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The basic conclusion of the new National Housing Programme is that it is necessary to allow more favourable, easier and faster access to non-profit rental apartments for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially for young people; and that we need more rental and non-proprietary apartments. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the plight of young people and thus their possibilities for regulating the housing problem. The OECD pointed out ahead of summer that there are currently some 42 million people and 10 million people without work in the Member States and more than before the financial and economic crisis. At the end of July 2015, 109 thousand 557 unemployed were registered in Slovenia, of which more than 22% were young between 15 and 29 years of age. We are also aware of the problem of bibian independence in young people. The latest survey by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions has shown that young people are increasingly staying at home. Experts believe that such a large proportion of young people live with their parents because they do not have jobs and cannot afford their homes. Notwithstanding the fact that the arguments for the early adoption of measures to address the housing problem have been substantiated, the applicants, according to our assessment, have not formulated appropriate measures. It should be pointed out that there are actually no permanently unoccupied service apartments from the Housing Commission Fund of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at all. For the data provided by the applicants, it is the apartments that will be leased, whether they are in the course of sale, or whether renovations are necessary. Thus, it is not a matter of permanent absence of housing, as can be concluded from the content of the material. In addition, it is worth noting that in 2009 the Pahorje government transferred some 100 permanently unoccupied apartments from the Housing Commission funds of the Government of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence to the management of the Housing Fund. For no housing, the Housing Fund has received maintenance, renovation or demolition funds. The Housing Fund has gained nothing from the transfer to free use and it cannot be expected that the Housing Fund would agree at all with the transfer of new dwellings at locations where there is no interest in renting or that there is a need for a thorough renovation. The coalition parties have committed themselves to the adoption of the National Housing Programme, which will also include measures to address the housing problem of young people towards the establishment of a tenancy policy to increase the supply of housing from the existing housing fund. The Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, which aims to create conditions for ensuring the quality of stay for the various target groups of the population, young and older, will be considered shortly by the National Assembly. Despite good intentions, the bill is so misplaced that it cannot be supported even at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u121	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž German, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The housing policy of the Republic of Slovenia is, historically, one of the more controversial policies of our community, since the diasopon of its actions and enlargement ranges from generous Jazbinške law to the current rigidity and non-response of housing policy to the challenges of modern times; especially when housing problems touch young, families and vulnerable groups. The confrontation of housing policy concepts thus varies between attempts to provide equity housing through the attempt to tax empty or unusable dwellings up to, depending on the local community, good and bad practices to ensure bibian autonomy, which is part of the competence of self-government communities. Notwithstanding the instability of the housing policy paradigm, it remains clear that it is necessary to provide an inclusive housing policy, which will not be defined among the different concepts, but will use in a spirit of synergy all the tools currently available to it to ensure that quality living units are accessible to all citizens and citizens in the light of the social, economic and personal circumstances in which the possible controller is located. Therefore, we expect from a serious legislative proposal, which contains a sincere ambition to address housing issues, the use of housing cooperatives, housing funds, housing communities, housing units for emergencies and a measure to ensure non-profit, rent-and-transitional housing. Unfortunately, these measures are not addressed by the SDS proposal and we are in a position to agree with the intention of the law to regulate the housing problem of young people, given the above, it is impossible to conclude that the proposal for a law for a measure that could actually significantly affect the market and address the situation and housing problems. The SDS proposal does not have this ambition and is an outstanding example of a law that can be understood as a single measure without visible and macrovidic tangible effect. The law proposed by the SDS is completely inaccurate and in practice impracticable. The proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party Act states that all completely unoccupied dwellings will be transferred to the Fund, managed by all five funds, the new fund is not in accordance with existing legislation and is directly contrary to the State Administration Act and the adopted State Property Management Strategy. Nor does the law pursue the objectives of the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, which, during the first phase of the bivanian youth self-absorbing, primarily encourages renting of dwellings. That is why the funds are also intended to increase the accessibility of the rental housing fund, not to allocate ownership apartments that young people cannot afford anyway. The law is using the wrong and impossible measures, addressing the wrong issue, which is something that the Social Democrats, who want to have a modern and effective law, cannot support on such a difficult subject. In the proposal for the law of the permanently unoccupied service apartments mentioned in the Housing Commission Fund, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not at all available; they are only apartments that will be leased, whether they are in the course of sale, or whether renovations are needed. In view of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recently adopted the National Housing Programme, we estimate that it is appropriate to solve the problem within the framework of the government plan, which includes the construction of residential communities for young people, the provision of favourable rental apartments in areas where the demand for young people is the most; and the rental with whatever purchase. We expect the Social Democrats from the Government to draw up an implementation plan for these solutions as soon as possible, where it will also include solutions that we have already proposed several times. We will not support the bill because our ambition to ensure access to quality housing for all simply extends beyond the currently proposed session of less quality and poorly located, for objective reasons, empty apartments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u123	The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, the executive team, the well-respected council! Young people are very handy in marketing in general, especially in political marketing. Throughout the past 20 years, we have seen that most of the clients of young people are not interested in anything, otherwise this problem would be systematically resolved. They are kind of interested in two ways – like some voters and a little bit of imaginary listening to young people and, secondly, as some kind of excuse, when another group is required by principle – I quote some minister, "you have to take care of young people first" – a bit of a cover. The older one remembers Benny Hill, who had one with him and always beat him over the head. If I take the case of the government coalition – I will read this exceptionally – its attitude towards young people has recently been very well taken by Finance Minister Marble, who said in an interview with Youth that the minimum wage should not grow even for the euro, the previous point. Why? As it is only possible for young people to be given more opportunities for employment, the elderly should not be greedy, "we must not be greedy", so says Minister Marble, direct quote, was previously a summary, "receiving wages, social transfers, pensions; young people will be out of jobs". Any minimum extension of rights or additional euro, two, three gross for employees and improvement of the situation of pensioners is not possible. According to Minister Marble, and partly after the departmental minister who was here before, we don't have a class fight like anyone would say; we have a generational battle in the country. This is kind of pointless; these preliminary points, which I am now referring to here, will somehow not affect the solution to the youth problem. A different approach to solving housing problems would be needed. Part of what Bojan Dobovšek said was right in front of me. In the United Left, we have two of the six members of the parliamentary group who have spent most of their professional careers dealing with this problem — social development, quality of life. It's about my colleague Hanzko and me. And Bojan has taken very well – to set the conditions for young people to enter the labour market. This is the most targeted policy. The Joint Left of this proposal will not support it, but we will not oppose it. It seems that the proposal is not well thought out, I believe it is well-intentioned. When I heard the arguments before the argument of the United Left, I don't know if I'm more saddened by the executive response, or by the more argument of the current coalition, or by the relatively poorly prepared proposal of a party that still has some tradition after the long-term in the National Assembly. The solution to the housing problem of young people, not just young people, can only be done through an ambitious housing programme, through an ambitious implementation housing policy. And this National Housing Programme, which will soon be in Parliament, is not because, on one hand, it is a little too bureaucraticly written; in the other hand, there is no indication of implementation. After all, there's a lot of paper going on. I'll tell you in some debate how this could be resolved. In Slovenia we have quite an empty housing fund, but then there should be systematic regulation of taxation, rental policies, consideration of the renewal and revitalization of this housing fund, which would also encourage economic activity, allow for more tax inflows, and also address this problem of young people as well as the rest of the population. I very much agree with the editorial of the Youth Editor, who said that we should stop talking about young people in this populist way, but let us go to some implementation policy. Young Mr Chuš cited some legislation that was adopted, where young people were written in large numbers; however, there was a largely dead letter on paper. The government and the National Assembly should have vision, courage and determination. That is the fundamental deficit in this area, as well as in some other area. As I have already said, the Joint Left will not oppose the proposal, nor will it support it, but I will explain it more in the debate. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u125	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u126	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! We all like to say that the young world is standing. And we all like to say that young people are our future, that without young people, young people are also a mirror of society. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed the case, but these are just some of the phrases used; for it is young today who are deprived of a variety of basic goods that our country would otherwise provide under the Slovenian Constitution. It must create opportunities for employment and work, as well as opportunities for obtaining suitable housing for young people. Today, the real picture is very cruel. Young people are hardly given opportunities for employment, if they are very lucky, they can only conclude a fixed-term employment contract or perform leisure work. The logical consequence of this fact is that they cannot even get loans for the purchase of apartments and market rents are very high. Their future revolves only in a vicious circle and seems to be becoming one of the most vulnerable groups in our society; it should be the other way around. Christian Democrats always put the family at the forefront as the highest value of our stay. One of the basic conditions for it is adequate housing, and it is the country that must ensure that a young family that is on its feet, as we like to call it, is able to obtain an apartment under favourable conditions. But, look, young people today don't need to get something for free, they don't need charity. We stress, all they need is decent conditions to buy an apartment. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people proposed by the SDS, although at this point it does not answer all questions about the implementation of the law, but it gives the right answer to today's critical situation in this area. The fact is that we need to act quickly, save quickly, although it is only a specific population of citizens; and although the issue of housing problems is also linked to other vulnerable groups. But let's try once and do something concrete. Only speaking in this place and the promises of systemic rescue for young people will not bring real solutions for much longer. The proposal for a national housing programme, which the Government has forwarded for first reading, will not have any effect for a few years, although it foresees a number of similar moves as today's proposal. The construction of residential communities for young people, the provision of favourable rental apartments for young people and young families up to a certain age, the rental of later purchases and shared ownership in the form of a so-called public-private partnership today are only pilot projects, depending on the assumption of funding by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. I cannot deny that the proposal for this programme brings positive measures; however, they are long-term, dependent on many conditions and involved in solving the housing problem along with other vulnerable groups of the population. Young people, however, need action that will soon show a different face. The gradual transfer of unoccupied dwellings from the Housing Commission Fund of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and Housing in the management of the DUTB to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia would, in our opinion, save many families and young people in the search for the first apartment. Out of a total of 434 apartments, 219 are for rent this year. Why not get them as a priority for young people, of course under certain conditions? While these are work apartments designed to address the housing needs of public officials and civil servants, this does not mean that they can be empty or unoccupied for a long time. If the State urgently needs them, then as a good host it should also give them up in accordance with its human resources policy. In the absence of such a need, however, they should be transferred to the Housing Fund as a vehicle for the implementation of the national housing policy. We know that many of these apartments are in poor condition because they are unoccupied and uncontained. We could serve our purpose if we today support the proposed solutions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, that is why we believe in New Slovenia that the country should take better care of its assets. Better worry. But today, too, it does not seem to be the right thing to do, for it delays itself for a longer period of time, citing the so - called systemic regulation of the area, so it is always the most convenient answer not to be made overnight. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will support the proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people in the New Slovenia Group because it is the only logical solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u127	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Miha Kordiš and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues. First, I must express my personal satisfaction. Rejuvenated – I kind of like that name, as colleague Marjana told us to follow up on my past work in the National Assembly. Before my young colleague Jean Mahnic asked a question on this subject, I have already asked two questions. First question in 2012 to Minister Šuštersič. These solutions, which you pointed out in this bill, I also expressed in some way that the housing problem of young people could be resolved in this way. My proposal then was that through the non-profit rents paid by young people, and if over time, over the years, it would be possible for these young people to buy this apartment so that these non-profit rents could be counted as a ransom price. Unfortunately, I must say, at the time, Minister Sušteršič promised to do something about it, but then it was nothing. Then there was a change of government, and I asked the other Minister of Finance, Dr. Cuffer, the same question that I asked in my reply, which is also somehow – I don't know exactly which month I put it – he said he would be looking for solutions by the end of the year. The fact is that many of these apartments are free and it is a shame that there are no users, tenants or owners. As a result, empty apartments are failing, and the state has the costs of these apartments. I believe that the Minister and her team will solve this problem in this mandate. It has already indicated certain solutions in the new National Housing Programme. I believe that through these solutions, which may also be finalized, this problem will solve; because I think that for the elderly, which we are looking for, and for the young people in Desus, this problem will finally be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u129	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the word to prepare themselves for the Mag. Alenka Bratušek and Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u130	Dear Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Although this law is not best awarded, it is necessary to discuss it. The theme is that we can discuss it and look for the best solutions. But it opens up a number of different questions. First, is the State’s treatment of real estate appropriate, economical and economic? We know that we have different properties; on the other hand, ministries are located in different buildings, for which high rents are paid and so on. Some of these things have already been settled, resolved, improved; but I think we still have a lot of work to do in this area. What I'm wondering is, do we really have to have so many office apartments that aren't occupied? We probably have some annual average need for these apartments to be occupied. And I think on that basis we can also calculate and see if we really need them that much, whether we can sell them off or how we treat them differently. The secretary said there was no harm in this area. And I say it's a shame if this isn't maximized; if the state doesn't get as much as it can get, even if it doesn't go down for now; but maybe it could get more. Then there is another question: what is our demographic and family policy? We know that the demographic situation in our country is devastating; 1.3 children per woman and that some other countries are also solving their demographic problems through refugees and immigrants. Of course, I would be more pleased if we had such a family policy so that young people could create their families, to have jobs and, as a result, family policy would be more encouraging. Thus, unfortunately, we have spent the most time on some law on the equalization of marriage with same-sex relationships, which I do not think is what we should be doing in the area of family policy. The housing problem is certainly one of the biggest problems for young people. Statistics show that our young people live with their parents most of the time precisely because of the housing problem, and then there are other things. We know that, in the face of such unemployment, young people do not have part-time jobs and are unable to obtain credits and so on. We need to look for solutions to improve our demographic and family policies, including through better housing policies for young people. We therefore support the debate on this subject. However, I believe that the law is not exactly defined, but it would probably be even more complete if the opposition had more opportunity in Parliament to adopt its laws. We know that this rarely happens, and this may make the laws less sophisticated than they could be. Another question would be the decentralisation of the state administration. We see that every day the rivers of cars roll down all the highways against Ljubljana, where the most jobs are the most employment. All ministries, as well as most public administration services or state institutions. I think it would be appropriate if we were also looking for opportunities for certain government services to open up in other places, other places, different parts of the country, because today, at the time of electronic communications, this can be realistic. This would reduce travel costs, perhaps service apartments in these properties, which are after various ends of Slovenia; and in this way they could reduce costs. It is certainly a topic for consideration, and I will therefore support this law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u131	The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek; prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Once again a nice greeting, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I will start by saying that I will support this proposal, despite the fact that I agree that it is currently somewhat underlying. We all agree that the problems of young people need to be solved; and I agree with my colleague Trčko – especially before the elections are full of us. The fact that the law is legally flawed or legally flawed rules the problem, as a colleague from the SMC said; I think that every government law — with the whole apparatus, so many and so many tens of thousands of people — comes to the National Assembly legally flawed. On 20 pages of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service – you will not reject any. If we really want to solve this problem, let us support this proposal and define it in procedures in order to be able to enforce it. The minister said no to this law, we have different solutions. I wrote one in particular. This is a youth scheme; first point: the housing construction programme. With a bunch of empty apartments in Slovenia, you promise to build more. I'm curious about what?Oh, my God! How much, in particular, is allocated in the draft budget for 2016 and 2017 for the construction of rental apartments? That it's not just words. 400 and so many apartments owned or used by ministries, governments, armies, anywhere, are currently unoccupied. You're going to rent some of them, and you're going to sell some of them, so then your answer is that there are no permanently unoccupied apartments. We're not gonna sell them and rent them, but we're gonna give them to the young. Is it so difficult to understand that young people really want to solve their housing problem so that they can create families? And I think we all want it together. This would also be good for Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia. However, in the case of a government response, the transfer of dwellings from the DUTB would affect an economic society. I hope, Your Honor, that you know how this so-called DUTB got money for these apartments. It took a lot of money from taxpayers when we were putting in the direction that we could get the banks to get them back to life. At that time, no one said that this was an interference in the economy, in economic society and that it was a problem. Now that some wish, I hope that all of us, together, we want to regulate, we want to start regulating, it's far from regulation, we want to start dealing with the problem, but it's all of a sudden unacceptable interference with economic society. We have spent five billion taxpayers' money in order to rehabilitate our banking system. It would be significantly less so that the empty apartments that stand on the DUTB just give young people the opportunity to get them, at some normal cost buy them out, whatever; just find solutions. Don't tell us every day that there's nothing we can do. It's like you're looking for reasons why things can't be arranged. If we took over the government yesterday, I'd understand that, and now it's one year from when you're sitting on the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that even which minister has not solved this problem before you; but by putting everything in the future, we do not solve the problems. I call on all colleagues and colleagues to support this law in the first reading; bearing in mind that it needs to be regulated in future readings. For those of us who are young, we will certainly be young.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u133	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, President. 78. Article 78 of the Constitution states that the State creates opportunities for citizens to obtain a suitable home. The country cannot create an opportunity by adopting a resolution or by means of various declarations, but by concrete proposals on how we will allocate housing, as in this case, to young people. You have all mentioned the National Programme; I agree that it is important that this is, if we call it, an important resolution or declaration, however. It's not about anything binding. Yesterday, for example, we had a debate on this in the Defence Committee. The resolution on the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025 states that it must have in 2018, we are pursuing the goal that in 2018 Slovenia will have 8 thousand soldiers of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army and 2 thousand contractual reserves. [[…]] Today, we're on the 7th of thousands of permanent units and a little over a thousand contractual reserves. If we reach 2,000 extras in three years, a thousand in permanent composition and about a thousand more in the contractual reserve, I'm optimistic. But in this way, as it turns out, we won't. And this also proves that we can practically write everything in the resolution, but it is essential that we follow these resolutions with concrete implementation. You said the proposal wasn't complete. That is why we have also put him in first reading in order to be able to correct him further with the amendments. Now I am asking the minister and the others who will vote against you if you would support the proposal, for example, to give us a simple law, this table that the government gave us, which says: Unoccupied apartments – 434 allocated apartments (waiting for accommodation) – 27, scheduled for sale in 2015 – 188, scheduled for rent – 219. If, for example, it were to be written a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people, where it would say that these 219 apartments owned by the Housing Commission of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, which are intended to be leased, are transferred to a fund or that the Ministry is engaged by making a tender under such conditions for young people under 35 years of age for non-profit rents; and that, after five years, such apartments could also be redeemed, with all paid rentals counted at the ransom price. Would that be a concrete proposal enough? If yes, we will be listening to your discussions today – I am pleased to see how the debate goes, that there are also many proposals – we will put the matter together and we will put it again by the end of the year. Because we do not want those young people waiting for these apartments to reach such an age that they will be members of Desus before we do anything in this area at all. We have highlighted some situation that has led to the need to adopt such a law, even though I am a great advocate of the free market; however, there are some segments where there is no good absolute deregulation and it is necessary for the state to act here, the National Assembly as some corrective measure in the functioning of the market. With regard to housing or housing, it is clear from Article 78 of the Constitution that this is the case. In the 1990s, the rental housing market developed in the direction of non-profit and commercial rental apartments. The Jębinski law allowed for the privatisation of social housing, and a market based on the legality of supply and demand began to be established. The development in the period up to 2009 has shown that the market alone cannot solve the problem of housing care for the population. At the beginning of this period, the supply of market dwellings was relatively modest; between 2004 and 2007, when the real estate and construction companies were mass-produced for the market, it jumped. In recent years, however, the economic crisis has led to a significant decline in the housing supply of new dwellings. Estimates of the number of unsold dwellings in multi-housing buildings vary by about 5,000, according to the Geodetic Authority and up to 9 thousand 500 according to Sursa data. We, obviously state institutions, don't even know how many of these apartments we have. On this basis it is also difficult to write this number and to make more concrete in the law itself. Since the Constitution states, as I have already said, that the state creates certain conditions, the market cannot be here without some correction. In the event of a solution to the housing problem for young people in the EU, the high proportion of the unemployed among them is a major problem. In 2014, 5 million young people under the age of 25 were unemployed, representing approximately 22% of the unemployed in the European Union. The economic crisis has affected young people much more than older. I think we can agree on that. Unfortunately, we often hear in Parliament, often talking about the elderly. The elderly also have their representatives in all the parties, even if the party does not have the name that it is the Democratic Party of the Retired; I think we all advocate that we also create better living conditions for the elderly. Maybe the only older ones here are in this advantage that Desus is showing up here as their client, because he can always in some way threaten to get out of the coalition if we don't do this, that and that for the older ones. In all 25, 24 years of independent Slovenia, there has not yet been a party to say - if we do not do it now for young people and we leave the coalition. And it probably won't be for a while, because such blackmail doesn't bring you anywhere. We talk a lot about the elderly. No, it's not a problem then. Every time someone opens up the problem of young people or starts addressing questions in this area, we somehow say that it is a matter of piranhas. If it isn't for the elderly, I don't know why it goes to the young; because we know that there are significantly more older people going to vote than there are young people. Access to affordable housing is one of the priorities in the European Union. The Europe 2020 Progress Report underlines that cheap and quality housing is a key factor in living standards and prosperity; in particular for the most vulnerable people, as we have already found young people, they are definitely. The availability of dwellings in EU countries is very different. Despite the consensus that the problem of access to housing across Europe is a major one, the definition of accessibility is the subject of national interpretation. The most common problem with affordable housing is that households spend more than 30 % of their gross income on providing adequate housing or biodiesel. Here we have OECD data on housing ownership in the European Union. These have shown an obvious link between the share of private property on the market and the proportion of young adults living with parents; which is interesting on the one hand, and not so on the other. In the case of a 10% increase in equity housing, the proportion of young people living with parents is increased by about 4%. In particular, after the mortgage crisis, it is necessary to create a diverse housing fund, which would provide an alternative to low-income middle-class households, where a significant number or a majority of young people are included. As a result, the situation of young people, given all the information available, is very uncertain and their ability to address the housing problem is also very uncertain. We can say that they have become a group where special needs need to be taken into account and also adapt public policy to their capabilities. When we discussed some numbers earlier, the government also referred to me that the Housing Commission of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice have as many as 2 000 635 apartments; 340 of them are in free use of the Housing Fund. I don't know why this is supposed to be a 219, what is going to happen by then when you say - but now in 2016 we will have so many from this fund or from this set that they will be provided for rent or some are scheduled for sale; in 2017 so much, 2018 so much or so until ; now I don't know whether they will go or not. [[…]] The other thing is flats owned by a bad bank. This is where I have to agree with my predecessor, mags. My cousin's. It's interesting, I don't know if a bad bank has any data on how many of these apartments there are. I don't know if you have it, or whether the government even has it; but these are the apartments that have been transferred to a bad bank and are now supposed to be sold by a bad bank. Then we hear that the bad bank is waiting for a good price to pay for the apartment. It's supposed to be moving somewhere between €1050 and €1100 per square meter. Here I'm surprised that the bad bank somehow follows the logic that demand creates an offer, because it's actually the opposite. If the Minister and the others could answer that question whether a concrete proposal would be, say, a school case, 50 dwellings that are not now occupied, no one lives in them, are not intended for renting, are not intended for sale, they are given to this age group under this condition and this condition. Would that be a concrete solution for you? I agree that this law will not solve this matter in its entirety. This was accumulated in years and years when no action was taken. With several such cases, of course, following this national housing programme, which is likely to be dealt with in the coming weeks in this national assembly, this situation, which we have been neglecting for quite some time, even during this crisis, could be significantly improved.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u135	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany and Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be back in the past for a while. In the past, there have been different periods of time that have provided an opportunity to get to the apartment or solve the housing problem. It was quite convenient to build a house at a time when inflation was very high. It was quite convenient to buy an apartment under the so-called Jezbinski Law. Employers in the past also had a significant number of their dwellings for their employees. In short, there were quite a few possibilities that were open to solving housing problems. Today, we ask ourselves, ‘ What are the options today for those who do not yet have a problem with housing? ’ I can tell they don't have a chance. But if I look at the population, the older ones were really the ones who had one of the options in the past, and they had the opportunity and they could solve the housing problem. But if we ask ourselves, what are the options for solving the housing problem that young people today have — they have absolutely no options — no. And this is why we have been looking at the Slovenian Democratic Party for an opportunity to help young people in some way, because we know what the job is today and what business success is today, especially for young people. We have been looking here for an opportunity, and we see this option with this law, which can be implemented in a fairly fast way. We have heard from representatives of the Government that they are preparing a resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. Before this programme is adopted and before the programme passes into the legislative area and before the legislative area passes into operational or implementation, construction will take a long time, many years. Those who are young today will no longer be young. At that time, we will talk about the housing problem of the elderly, not more about the housing problem of young people. I also agree with my predecessors who have found that marriage is not entirely perfect. We agree. I don't know if there were a couple of laws that were completely perfect when they came to the National Assembly. Today it is the first reading, the law can be legally and also systematically completed. Even what has already been mentioned today is the possibility of inclusion; although I do not think that the government nor which institution has accurate data, how many empty apartments are owned by banks. Who owns the biggest apartments in Slovenia today? Banks. Only part of this is transferred to the DUTB, where information is known, how many of these empty apartments are. Also owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which owns 2 thousand 635 apartments, is empty 434. I would kind of agree that the country should have a few apartments in reserve, not 400 apartments; I would understand about 20%, that is about 80, a maximum of 100 apartments; not 430. That's a very big number. My suggestion is that this law be supported. Today, the first reading is to introduce even those elements that do not stand here legally or formally today. And also to consider how to add the remaining majority of the apartments owned by the bank. Because the banks will have to end their speculation and expect better times tomorrow, we will sell our apartments at a higher price. Because this is all happening with the money of all of us taxpayers. I suggest you support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u137	Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor; Mrs Vesna Vervega and Mr Zvonko Lah are to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you, President. Thank you very much for your word. Madam Minister, the team, colleagues and colleagues, nice afternoon all together! The last point of today's meeting is touching young people, not to make it perfect, but I think it is because it is one of the most important themes, at least as we, the Social Democrats, who have also included the issue of young people in the programme presented under the coalition agreement, very high. True, I myself am a representative of that generation whose parents have had certain privileges in this area, as my predecessor spoke. We are talking about the law of Jasbinsk, we are talking about very high inflation, we are talking about that it was significantly easier in some other socially organised system to reach those most basic living needs. Yes, the crisis is also that and the inability to resolve this crisis of past governments – I am speaking from 2009 to today – to solve this problem. I do not accept those who mention that only one or another government is responsible for the situation that has arisen. I will especially attribute to this circumstances that we were unable to influence. It is also the fault of all other governments, liberals, lefts, rights that we have such a situation. But the indicators are relatively more favourable than they have been in recent years, when we talk mainly about unemployment, about economic growth. In fact, a few years ago we had 130 thousand more unemployed, today we can talk about 107 thousand, maybe even less than 100,000 in the next year if we had one stroke of happiness. In another way, we are really impressing young people that we are marginalising them in some way; data is remarkable; we are talking about 20% of young people who are unemployed. This employment is also the basis for young people to be able to build a future. Let me just say that it is difficult for young people today to get to an apartment if parents do not offer us this help or if we are in such a good social situation that we can afford it. I know a lot of young couples who are highly educated when they go to banks that refuse credit so they can create a future. We in Primorsk know another category, which I think is present everywhere – so-called adjectives. We are a generation who try to build some real estate with their parents’ properties so that we can build our own lives. As I said in the introduction, the Social Democrats are very high and we pay great attention in the context of our three ministries and the policies of the Social Democrats' Group, so it is not worth mentioning that there are great incentives from the agricultural ministry for young takers when we talk about young people's incentives. In the framework of the Ministry of Labour, I should like to mention that we hope that more than €30 million will be allocated to active employment policy in the budget. Let me mention that in the coming year, if the budget is adopted, 3 000 218 more state grants will be granted. I mean, we watch the Social Democrats closely and it's very important to us 11. 9. The tabled Resolution on the National Housing Programme, which will in some way take up what we are talking about today, and more. I think that no one has mentioned this before, this is a fundamental document that we will be able to discuss in the coming months exactly what the proposer proposes; but I think that in a more consistent form, with the help of the ministry, with the help of the government and, of course, with the help of today's proposer and all the groups of Members. This is a very interesting information when I was reviewing today's documentation that Slovenia is at the very top, as far as housing is concerned, this is to the refugees in Europe. Why am I telling you this? Because obviously this is an important element that we need to take into account in solving this problem. Let me mention that the Ombudsman also addressed recommendations on how to address this issue to the government. What is very important to the Social Democrats and what we will strive to achieve in the new resolution and later in the national programme is that we will get a non-profit lease. In a way, young people can – I hope that even then, with better economic indicators – in this way, they can most easily get to a place of residence and later be able to buy real estate. To summarize briefly, no government has solved this problem in recent years. Today, in these months, we may have for the first time the conditions we have created for ourselves, or the circumstances are such that we may be able to discuss in the coming months exactly what the proposer proposes today; so that the matter will be more systematic and accessible to all. So much for me. However, as far as the proposal for today's debate is concerned, unfortunately I will not support it, because I will support what the Government will propose in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u139	Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor. Prepare Mr. Zvonko Lah and Mr. Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! We have already heard the position of our parliamentary group and the reasons why we cannot support the proposal of this law; however, I will point out one, which is also stressed by the Government. The implementation of the transfer of dwellings from the housing fund owned by the executive branch of the Authority and the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to the Special Fund of the Housing Fund is also difficult to implement due to the undeclared concept of unoccupied housing. In the light of the reasons given, unoccupied dwellings also cover those dwellings that have already been allocated and the beneficiaries have not taken over; and those dwellings that are in the sales phase. On the basis of this type of service housing of the Government and ministries is intended to address the housing needs of public servants and officials in the public administration in accordance with the Staff Policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This apartment covers the fourth paragraph of Article 19 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 5 December 2014, which states that a transition to centralised management of the property of the State shall take place in the period until 1 January 2017. We do not claim that the solutions offered by this law will no longer be discussed here. However, it is also true that what the proposer says is enshrined in Article 78 of the Constitution that the State is creating opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing, so in the case of anomalies on the real estate market, it must intervene appropriately with a view to eliminating these anomalies and ensuring adequate solutions for vulnerable groups. Of course, I agree with the reasons for the drafting of the law as outlined by the proponents – the economic crisis has affected young people more than others. The high proportion of young people is unemployed, the uncertainty of the situation of young people mainly in solving the housing issue, the lack of housing savings and credit. The Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2020, which, as we have heard, will soon be addressed in the National Assembly, is intended to address all these problems in a comprehensive way. She was in public and inter-ministerial treatment in February, which is a long time ago. On this occasion, I would like to mention some of the views expressed by the Youth National Council, which on the basis welcomes the intention to adopt this programme and welcomes the setting up of young people as a priority target group of measures with a view to increasing the Tenant Housing Fund, in particular permanent rentals, with a view to prioritising rent prior to purchase and renovation, with the introduction of a public service for rent management, and, more than once, we have heard that it would be good and smart to mention the possibility of transferring DUTB claims to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, he is also critical of this program. I hope that the Government, or the Ministry, has also taken into account their proposals, which I believe are somehow justified mainly in saying that the clear starting principles of the programme should be laid down, that the abolition of non-profit rents and the transition to housing allowances is very risky and that there is an absolute need to take more account of demographic trends. It would be useful to set performance indicators for the implementation of the National Housing Programme. I hope that we will soon have a chance to talk about this here too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u141	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor; Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mrs Marinka Levičar are to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u142	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! This law, which we have proposed, does not solve this problem in its entirety, nor does it indicate how best or comprehensively we can solve the problem of young people’s homes. However, it touches only the part where state-owned apartments are free and the country is only costing and young people are homeless; it offers some solution. We hear that in Slovenia we have as much as 170 000 and some free housing units. I come from a congregation that has 900 households and approximately 230 housing units unoccupied or only occasionally occupied. Approximately a percentage is also at the country level by comparing the total number of dwellings and data by employment. What a colleague said 40 years ago was much easier to build an apartment house, a one-bedroom or a two-bedroom house, with one household. There are many such houses in Ljubljana, which have some other weekends or a building built 30 years ago, because then inflation allowed cheap construction. But now these people are between 70 and 80 years old. Perhaps there is only one member left in the household with a pension of between €400 and €500; and how this should be maintained now. And that's why so many empty apartments were created. Of course, it would be best, as it was said, to build new non-profit rental apartments and rent them to young people with non-profit rents. It's the same as having two technically flawless old cars, and I'd like to have a new car that someone buys you; and rents you only pay the costs, not the depreciation. That's the nicest thing. Like my colleague said before, where did we get the money?Oh, my God! Why don't we use this housing fund because we're probably a fugitive in Europe. But it is true that we also have about 900 thousand buildings built in non-compliance with regulations and some 10,000 buildings built in black. We can't solve this. There are situations in the countryside where students are looking for masonry. In an area in Slovenia, farmers increase vineyards in a way that buys vineyards and then the building is very cheap for sale. Inside, a young family settled in on a black-built facility without utility equipment. Since these building blocks have house numbers, the administrative unit assigns a permanent residence and thus legalizes it. Still, this is better than that group that has built buildings on foreign land in Dolenjska and has a double electoral right at the local level. We can't solve one problem if we can't solve the problem when they have built residential buildings on foreign land; and he got landowner in case of a property tax calculation for a property tax. We also have a major problem in this area. If they were able to legalise these facilities so that owners could legalize and obtain a building permit for a relative amount, the municipality could use a municipal contribution to build a municipal infrastructure, and these facilities could serve as an apartment and, say, a tourist activity. Now it is happening that they need these buildings to broadcast for tourism in the walls, and they are illegally built, and they do not even have a building permit. We have a very complicated system of how to legalize this or how to solve this situation with spatial acts. I hope that the new legislation will also offer a solution to such a problem. On the ground, the easiest thing to do is to bury an empty object on a black floor, buried in the ground with at least 30-ton mud. This is what contractors do for less than a thousand euros; legalisation costs, they say, about 4,000 euros, where possible. However, the facility no longer needs or can no longer be maintained by the owner. We're doing a lot of damage here. I think we should solve this housing problem differently, that even young people should, some already think differently. [[…]] Most young people do not have a job for an indefinite period of time and cannot obtain a loan to buy an apartment or a plot to start building. There are many young people who have registered S.P., who have income, but who do not have a steady income. They have the option of being paid off by hand because they have income, but they do not have a permanent one, so that they can obtain a long-term loan from the bank for the purchase of an apartment or other housing facility. I am sure that there are plenty of such apartments in Ljubljana in two- or three-bedroom houses, where there is only one tenant who endures torment pays for heating; however, it could be arranged in some way. Of course, in some ways we have made young people feel that they want some comfort at the start, and many parents help and pay; but this situation is getting worse from day to day. We should look at this situation realistically and solve it with a healthy farmer's mind, not press on with a policy that is a few decades old, and we do not see these changes and are not looking for a solution in a simpler way. I think this marriage of ours is a good attempt to partially get rid of it. We have it at first reading to upgrade it, and if not otherwise, to set some guidelines for amending other legislation to solve this housing problem. We have a difficult move from the city centres to the periphery, to the robbery or to the countryside, and the cities remain empty dwellings, especially the elderly. I think that tax legislation could also help to tax empty apartments, as in some European countries they also tax single life. And by doing so, the owner, although not with some high tax, would be forced into a different way of thinking. And young people would probably get cheaper rents, a little lower rent, and they could get some renovations. I think that when two young people were able to take credit for 20 years, they built a house, and this loan was smaller year after year, the repayment was cheaper. Sometimes you got a job when you were 18, and you had some sort of security that you'd be able to get a pension without having to look for another job. There are virtually no such jobs now, except in any public administration. But it's not in the economy anymore. There may also be a need for young people to have a different way of renting an apartment. If there are two young people who have a good salary, who are creditworthy and who would not be able to go to construction, they could pay it off in the long run with some rent while at the same time buying it back. Instead of thinking about bricklayers and builders, they should work more on their careers or more in the company and thus contribute significantly more to this society. In short, this is our attempt, to think. It's only right that this law should be confirmed and upgraded. As the predecessor said, we will talk about this, and one year later, when the situation changes a little bit, it will be complemented by nothing concrete; and there will be an even better solution and hope for young people to reach their own home or a more secure solution to their housing problem. I've seen the minister smile before about spatial legislation. This is also a problem that could have helped in this situation. Otherwise, it's so hard to get him out if someone moves in. I hope that young people will not be forced to use such procedures. I have supported this law, I have heard that there will also be several opposition colleagues from other parties. However, I would also like to consider the biggest positioning party to start thinking a little differently or to think a little faster about this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u143	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor; Mrs Marinka Levičar and Mr Bojan Podkrodšek should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u144	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I've been dealing with youth policy for about ten years. Since 2005, we have always talked about how to solve the housing problem of young people if young people cannot get an apartment; and this is indeed the case. But the mistakes that have been made have happened a long time ago, and today we are faced with one fact. Not only do young people not have apartments, but we also face a problematic demographic picture, which is undoubtedly linked. And if parents today do not help young people with credit guarantees, if young people decide to buy apartments, or that in their youth, when parents made their own families, they have built large houses so that they can have their family in the attic and play this way of intergenerational cooperation, they do not actually have other options. There's no other choice. Parents today are the ones who want or do not want to help their children to make families. Today’s youths are kind of dependent on their parents, but I stress that I had the opportunity to set up a family with my wife’s parents. Some people don't have that option. They don't even have a chance of hiring long-term loans and paying them off. It is important to realize that today we are not just talking about the housing problem of young people in the sense that young people cannot get to their homes. This is also linked to the extension of the period of family creation and thus to negative indicators in birth and demographics. I would like to point out that this is also related to our pension register, health checkbook. This is why we are also talking about the early arrival of young people in the labour market. In the coalition, you have cited the reason for rejecting this bill if it is not comprehensive, it is only for young people. Your resolution is supposed to be more successful. Young people are a problem, not older, about housing. Young people are a problem because they actually have a difficult arrival so they can get an apartment. And this proposal, which is a really fireful proposal, ad hoc; but it's good. Otherwise, tell me, in this year and next year, will all the apartments owned by the state listed be leased over 200?Oh, my God! And if you do not, let the one who promises this lease, this lease, or maintenance, pay out of his own pocket. Otherwise, give it to your young families, and give it to your young ones so that they can manage their families in these apartments. What's the state gonna do with an empty apartment, a moldy apartment, why? In the winter, unheated. Madam Minister, if you intend to continue to keep these apartments owned without being leased, then come in front of the microphones and tell us what the cost of this maintenance costs is, in public. Young people could cover this cost in order to avoid paying the cost to the State. So the proposal is good, in New Slovenia we will support it, because it is illogical to insist and insist only on not supporting something, which is from another political option; and we advocate systemic. Here, let me add this to the resolution. We will discuss the resolution in future readings, but where are the laws? The laws will be next year or even longer; the apartments are empty today and it is irresponsible of the state not to rent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u145	Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you, President, for your word; once again a nice greeting to everyone! I think today's debate on housing issues and also the reasons why the housing problem of young people is so hot is correct. It seems to me that we are discussing this thoroughly and that we may only find the right, the right, the real reasons for their elimination. They certainly work for the lowest possible wages or for very low incomes that young people are not employed or are employed for their leisure work. Of course, they can't even afford a rental apartment. It is also true that these rental apartments are too small, but even if they were enough, I doubt that most young people could solve their housing problem by renting a rental apartment; as we must be aware that the cost of renting an apartment in addition to renting is almost EUR 400 per month. And what young family, if both partners have an income of 600 euros, can afford 400 euros in rent? I really don't know how to answer that. My answer is only that we really need to ensure that young people get a job as soon as possible and that they will get a decent salary for their work. This is our most responsible task and mission, which we really need to tackle with all the grill. In addition, I would like to point out that the problem of solving the housing problems of young people is a complex problem, that it must be addressed in the context of the country's overall housing problem, the people of those countries. At the same time, I would like to reiterate what you have already said in the debate that Slovenia is a unique property, in the number of people who own apartments and houses. This is true and thank God that in a way this is true, because these apartments and houses are mainly owned by older people. And if these older people didn't have their own apartments, I don't know where they'd be young today. Intergenerational solidarity between young and old is really great, and this is all that saves young people. True, this situation is also unpleasant for older people. Many times, this property of large apartments and houses means only a burden, a financial burden, so they cannot access social assistance, even though their pensions are low; at the same time, they do not hope to transfer these apartments or houses to their young, to their offspring, because they also have poor experience. You can trust me, in my former job, I've had a lot of experience with this. I was called by older people, and many times I was told that they had copied their homes to their offspring or some relatives; how they had been deceived and no one could help them. The elderly also have housing from the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund. We just need to be aware that these apartments are available again only to older people who have enough pension. In their rules, there is a censorship that those with lower pensions can't even get to these rental apartments. Even if older ones were to transfer these apartments to younger ones, the problem remains for them. I agree that this issue, the housing problem of the entire Slovenian population, will be resolved through a national programme of housing problems, which will soon be addressed by Parliament; and then by appropriate legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u147	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you, President. In a certain part, I agree with what Mrs Marinka Levicar said; especially when she spoke about the problem of youth unemployment and when she talked about the other problems that this problem entails. If you remember, we have already proposed some solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party in recent months, some measures that would help reduce youth unemployment. One such example is the introduction of a dual school system that would more closely link education to the market. On the basis of the results we see in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, many young people also get jobs more easily in this way. And another concrete proposal, which we have also proposed, is still hanging in the air or we do not know when it will be – it is supposed to be one June 2016 – the abolition of volunteer traineeships. Unfortunately, none of this has been accepted, as I said before, because of the numbers we have seen in these unoccupied apartments. There's practically the same problem everywhere. When we present a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, says the government that it is not systemic, there are shortcomings, we are aware of this problem, we will definitely open these issues. When we begin to talk, in particular the dual school system, the deadline for introduction – 2020. We opened the training theme last year, now the deadline for the launch of June 2016. And here certain Members have said: "Stop so much training this internship, next summer this will be arranged." The following summer – this year was meant – is over; we are where we are. It's been hours. We've talked about this a lot. But right now, there's no realisation. We can propose, but then they're in charge of the ministry. I am not saying that, specifically in this matter, there is a problem with the current minister, because she had floods, she had other things to deal with. They have now sent this Resolution, look at the hands in this Resolution – a few years before 2018. Construction of living quarters for disabled persons – 2020. In the budget we are going to receive, I do not know if you have already foreseen in the budget the funds you are talking about, that you will not know what you are building in this housing resolution. [[…]] Once again, we can adopt a resolution on the resolution. But the resolution must be followed by the implementation in the form of laws, in the form of concrete proposals, here even in the form of building houses, buildings. If it's hard to write a marriage, we know what it's like to build it, then my colleague Žnidar could tell me more about it, which is the builder. It often happens that those of you who are in such a business are quicker to get a matter through than the entire army of employees in the ministries. Let's say the Ministry of Labour, 300 employees, traineeships are waiting and we'll wait for them; but because of me, we can adopt a resolution and we've already done the analysis. But there won't be any performance. I mentioned earlier, and I will mention once again how the resolutions are. With the resolution we have in force, we should have 10,000 soldiers in 2018. At the moment, we have 8,000; 7,000 permanent units, thousands of reserves. This will not happen because the resolution is not binding. It is said that it can be changed and there are no consequences, such as when a specific law is adopted. And I still haven't received an answer as to whether, in the case of the marriage, of these 219 apartments, which are written here as intended to be leased; nor would I know what state these apartments are in, and this will also be the cost, the ministry or the state must take care of these apartments, they will have to be renovated. [[…]] How many are there here, do you have this information, or do you not have it? Is it a concrete suggestion to say that from these 219, for example, the Ministry should ensure that within three, four months 50 people who are adequately equipped will be given a non-profit lease to young people. I don't even understand this resolution when it says what we're going to build. We have thousands of empty apartments, thousands of apartments owned by the state bank. Why don't you use these apartments? They're standing on a bad bank, they're not being sold because they're waiting for the price to go up, prices are falling, so there's not going to be any demand from the providers. And the apartments will still be there — falling, empty, in Celov Castles and what I know where else. We haven't talked about these things, not a word of it. Neither does this resolution. As a result, a number of measures have already been taken, a number of measures will continue to be followed, and we will draw up a law here today on the basis of this debate. If you want, more concrete; but you will have to agree on what is concrete and what is not. Now that I have read the government's opinion on this law that we have proposed, they have written: the term "unoccupied housing" is not defined. What kind of expert do you have to be to know the word, what does it mean to be inconspicuous? It's probably not an unoccupied apartment if I go to a home where someone already lives, where they report it, where they have their address. I don't know how to define a word inconsequential here. Instead of settling the matter in 15 articles, we get the law again with 100 articles of the interpretations and the machinations in itself, so that everyone gets lost when they read it. And that's our legislation. It is unoccupied for me a flat that is empty, in which no one lives, in which no one is registered and which is not currently in the lease procedure or that has already been leased, but is waiting for accommodation. This is an unoccupied apartment. For men know what unscathed means; but not that we will explain every word in it as to what it means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u149	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u150	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the housing problem of young people, it seems to me that there should be a more full hall and that we should be more specific. I've been in state politics for over a year, driving home every day, sometimes thinking about what we did in the day. I don't think we're always the best. If I compare because I've been in the economy for a few years, our effect is too small. And yesterday, I was thinking about how many hundreds of oral questions were raised in this mandate for ministers. In most cases, I have listened to these questions, and I must say that all the questions were in place, whether they were from the opposition or from the coalition. Questions were coming from all over Slovenia from various areas. And only yesterday did we find one question for all of us together, and that question went very closely to be discussed in the National Assembly. Now that I have mentioned honourable Members and Members from various parts of Slovenia, from different professions, it seems to me that when one topic comes to these tables, it is already on the committees – I am sure that we have all the good professionals in the parliamentary groups, that some of the professional colleagues were even when one of our clients was in the government, so I have no doubt that they do not know how to do their work – but when the law comes to the table, we somehow find no more common language. Of course, there will never be any such law, especially when it is first considered that this law cannot be rectified. Let me touch the young; we have talked about young people many times in this good year. We also had many laws to improve for young people, and we did not find a common language. In my words, I don't want to accuse anyone of not being involved, but I speak in general. When we talk about housing problems and housing problems in young people, we feel that we are not responsible enough in this area because we all see problems together. I don't want to do the department now, as it were, at home. We know that this area is not only a matter of this ministry, but also many other areas, but I cannot understand that we do not find at least an approximate common language here, so that this proposal, which went so far at first reading, could be completed. All of us have already been able to identify, above all, the figures show that in the Republic of Slovenia we have many empty apartments at such or different locations, from such or other owners. The fact is, we have to give a lot of money for these apartments to sustain them at all. On the other hand, we must have many apartments in Slovenia, which are inhabited by older citizens, which are difficult to maintain. That is why I think that this area that we are dealing with today is very important, and above all it is important for our young people. When we talk about young people, I often watch students do what they have to do in addition to their studies so they can go to school. I think we should be proud of such citizens who are aware of their obligations; on the other hand, they are also aware that their parents are not always financially capable of teaching them financially and are aware of this and are also doing their job in addition to the studies. I have mentioned this important residential segment several times before, and I think we should find a common language here, I repeat, no matter where this proposal comes from – from the opposition or the coalition. If I go back a little bit to my start, I'm more than sure if we had any products working for the economy, we'd always lose all our business. We'd lose, in particular, when they put their hands on us. Our hands are in years, decades. At the back, we see problems that are escalating and problems that remain behind us. There won't be much more of our time when the term expires, the time runs fast, the hands are long, some of us will leave this room, and the problems remain. That is why I am calling, and I will be happy to support this proposal myself. I am convinced that it is not the best thing to upgrade it, that it can be upgraded in such a way that it will go in a positive direction of housing problems in Slovenia; in particular the problems of young people to make it easier for them in their youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u151	The word is given by Mrs Marija Bachič, to prepare Dr. Franc Trček and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nicely greeted Minister with a team! As we all find, we have an extremely pressing problem in dealing with the housing problem of young people. Here we can talk about three reasons why this problem is so acute. Firstly, youth unemployment; secondly, employment for a certain period of time and loans that we know are extremely difficult for young people to obtain or later pay them hard. While some young people arrange for their parents’ apartment, some also for their parents’ parents; yet we all know that we already have families and that we are older, that this is not the case, and that every young person deserves to be single and have an apartment for himself. We like to say that old people and young people don't go together. If parents have a house, they are still going, but if they have a two - room apartment, it is difficult for a young family to come into that apartment and live together. We all know and have been told here that disagreements and dissatisfactions have already occurred. I am therefore convinced that this proposal before us has been well-intentioned; but unfortunately this law is not the best solution and is difficult to implement. The bill states that all completely unoccupied dwellings will be transferred to the Fund. There are no permanently unoccupied employment apartments mentioned from the Housing Commission Fund of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at all. There are only apartments that will be leased or are in the process of renting, selling or needing renovations. I think it's fair to trust the minister who gave us this information. However, I agree with the Government's proposal for measures, the so-called Youth Action Scheme, to address the housing problem, namely the construction of a residential community for young people who were available for rent to young families, especially students who no longer have a chance to stay in student homes. Secondly, smaller and more cost-effective housing in an area where demand is the largest, which would be provided by the Housing Fund. And thirdly, renting apartments with the possibility of a later redemption, of course the possibility of buying a public rental apartment. I hope and wish that the Government will draw up an implementation plan for these solutions as soon as possible and that young people will be able to get to their homes as soon as possible. We will not support the social democrats of the bill because we are looking at a more comprehensive national housing programme, which is not partial and will also work after the single division of some empty apartments, and will address all, not just one category of residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u153	The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Marjan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, chairman. Say hello to the minister's team again. Colleagues and colleagues! It was very wide-ranging this topic was set up today, different other topics prevented it precisely because of what I said here for the stage, because it is so nice to try on young people to collect political points, but if you look at political participation or non-participation, young people are the ones who do not go to elections because they think, but you go somewhere but you try to stick to the themes, and I will not mention the words of young people in every sentence. [[…]] There are several original sins in the 1990s in this country, not arms trafficking, not only erased, it is also – colleague Murgel is moving his head – this is also the reckless housing policy of the day, which bears the name of a gentleman, the then minister. My colleague, who will speak after me, described this very nicely and in plastic terms, was a dilemma whether to privatize at the price of a stone or at the price of golf — so you said, Jani. Then they decided to privatize at the price of the stone. This money, as you might say in my mother's language, is "took the fog." We are not alone, but as some of the so-called post-transition Eastern European countries, if we compare ourselves with the companies to which we would like to compare, we have this unpleasant ownership structure. We have apartments that are "de iure" and are practically privately owned, and a colleague of Levičar from Desus also pointed out one dimension of the problem – the collapse of the housing fund. The dimension of the problems of grandfatherhood – older played. As long as I was still able to ask questions to the ministerial team, for example, I asked a question to the social, family, departmental minister about violence against the elderly. I also suggest that they be exempt from inheritance. Why am I talking about this? I don't think so, because there were threats of this guy: old k, when you're gonna die, and obviously somehow I wasn't really detected at the time. [[...]] The dozen people who are seriously involved in housing problems in Slovenia – not all voters of the United Left or members – most of them are my colleagues, because they are, after all, spatial sociologists, not all sociologists – agree. that, in fact, we literally haven't had a housing policy in almost 20 years. Well, because almost everyone has their own apartments to deal with them, those minorities that don't have them, someone will take care of them. Parents after all. Some experiments were with non-profit apartments, social housing and so on, but you like to use the words systemically, perplexing Perplexy you do not come at all, complex, not black-and-white, multi-layered – dear God, I will also mention God. [[...]] We live in the 21st century and are different. And Irgle's colleague, we're not exactly identical twins, for example. You can see that, can't you? Good. But if we're serious, and when I listen to this debate today, I remember Finland, I'm very fond of Finland and Santa Claus. The Finns came into a crisis and they saw that they had things redecorated, and they went to count, and they said, "Oh, my God, you have to go to 17 different offices for social policy. You put this VEM in a coalition contract, a nice letter on paper that somehow doesn't work and it kind of integrates. It will also be necessary to solve the problem of young people and the problem of a few older people and the problem of my generation, which, if it doesn't hit the lottery or our aunt doesn't die, solves the housing issue at the age of 50. I don't want to be personal, there's a gentleman sitting here who's a protected person in Slovenia between five and six, and a bad year ago he hasn't had a facade on the house. I'm an extraordinary professor, and I can't buy a wardrobe. Not now that I'm crying very much – Milan, I hope you don't mind – I don't know, I can live under the tent. That's because for 20 years no one's dealt with it, and it's not funny, it's sad for "out of the bridge down the handle". One issue is the overestimation of dwellings, of course, because we inspired this construction sector. What's a flat after all? The overestimation of cars already hurts me. Most of the men in this House would explain everything through cars, the imagination only up to the fetal reach. In short, the apartment is a housing box and the car is a moving box. I think we should demytology that too, and of course you want to turn this box into a home if you have a chance. With us, apartments are just too expensive. They're expensive everywhere. You don't have this diversification that you have somewhere else. Personally, however, it is insulting for a professional to read a motion for a housing resolution, where it is almost literally written that I will build apartments for young people, and somehow it is quite latently written there, which will also be a little cheaper. Some colleague said, let's primarily build smaller apartments and so on We need quality apartments, we need some movement in culture. [[…]] I was at that consultation of the Youth Council of Slovenia, which was mainly dominated by underage customers and I just sat there, because there were young people, old people, I don't know 18-23, 24 years old. They still have in their head that they must have bought apartments. They said, "Give us credits as soon as possible, up, down." I have already mentioned Vienna several times, which has over 50% of the dwellings owned by the majority of the municipality, this is the so-called red Danube - it is not the fault of the United Left, unfortunately; one of the largest dwellings there is called Karl Marx Hof, a thousand 200 metres long residential block. Why did they do that before Hitler Einschluß did it? It relates to the subject that we had before because they knew, of course, that they needed to improve hygiene conditions, that workers needed decent housing for daily regeneration and so on. For the same reasons, they also develop a very loving railway for me in developed countries. By the way, even the Stowasser – who then changed his last name to Hudertwasser – the house you want to paint is this kind of rental city apartment and you always have three thousand people waiting to come to the apartment; but you have to make your own furniture there, of course, because they are not "equesta" apartments, if I say so. If I go back after this long footnote to the base. In this bill, which we do not object to in principle, I am disturbed by one matter, which is likely to result from the poor response of the executive to the questions raised by the Member States. Since the beginning, I have been asking quite a lot of questions, and then I have given up a little bit, because the current executive power is usually kind of squirming some answer, not a dick or a mouse. I would, in principle, but then there's fifty reasons why not. I also gave up because many of my acquaintances working in the ministries then have to write such sausages instead of looking for solutions. Sometimes I ask the government what, because if you ask the government, it has to be at the government's meeting for at least three minutes. Some poor guy has to write this, I apologize to these people, kind of in advance. These apartments that are available here are over 200. Similarly, we will have a debate about what? – the closure of the mine or the Ripper, because there are 180 people there who will retire or will not go, the government writes that they do not know. You can walk down the street and ask them. Of these 250 — or how many apartments are there, mate? —, 219 apartments I would like to know, I would like — just as Peterlin does between myth and fact — to have a map of the chicken where these apartments are. I'd like to know what the condition of these apartments is. I'd like to know what these apartments would be for, so that we can have a little more serious conversation. Of course, I asked the same questions as the SDS Members, but what about the apartments we moved to a bad bank. Because a bad bank really turns out to be a very bad bank, except for some. These apartments are much more than that, and the finance minister who likes to beat the table, as the minister said without the resources, or his ministry has replied to me that we will sell them to the best possible extent. This social bloc, which is, at times, comrades with us, sometimes not, but at least within the coalition we could press this. I'd say if we didn't, Mira, but we're going away. That this is to be borne and that these apartments are to be destroyed after all. [[…]] Another dimension that we don't do many times. It's not true that we just need apartments in Ljubljana, Maribor, up, down. I'm from Vince, Kolpa, and even in Montenegro, someone would probably go to an apartment. A little serious about this proposal should also be prepared in terms of knowing that certain apartments are in bad shape. Who's going to revitalize them if I put it that way? There was talk of adversaries. I also have a problem with this proposal, let's just say that these apartments want to be sold. Why would we sell them? Let us allow people to live in these apartments, perhaps from that gap in their money they are solving the housing problem or are staying either in the medium or long term rents. Of course, I agree that those who are in a poor social situation — what if they are unable to pay even such membership fees? It's also a little discriminating to have a child under the age of five, because I have quite a few colleagues here who are either Milan's or my age, and they don't have a housing problem yet. One thing is, we're not just going to focus on young people, we're going to provide housing for older people. How's that? We can still move on. There's no talk of multi-domesticity. People don't live in just one place anymore. A fellow Lach who is not here, for example, is very fond of the wall. I showed this graph, an article written by a acquaintance Marko Peterlin of the Institute for Policies of Space, which says the huge reserves of building land that we have in Slovenia. I'll read the footnote. "Undistinct building plots by Slovenian municipalities in 2014. A large proportion of unbuilt buildings have the most sparsely populated municipalities, as well as a number of small municipalities in north-eastern Slovenia." Then you still have a problem with your ex-basket in Kamnik. It's been said how empty the housing fund is, but no one dares to bite into it. Of course it's because of some lobbying. Not all these apartments are habitable, but in Slovenia it is – so, we say through the thumb in the profession, quite accurate data – at least 30, if not 40,000 empty dwellings. And I'm not gonna do it now, without having to do what anyone should have done in history. You didn't! Now we have to solve these problems. Are we going to go into some legislation that's going to grab this thing for -- not to say anything. How are we going to solve the problem of renting apartments? Here I have already mentioned that in the UK they have made some analysis, they have found that if this policy goes well, in 2045 more than half of the 40-year-olds will be forced to live in rented apartments because they simply do not have the resources to buy apartments. Years ago, in London, they had a big debate about creating a satellite site for people who actually need such an urban policy, and they don't have any income again to afford rent apartments, let alone buy. This part of the ministerial team responds that these apartments are out of the question because they are intended for the police. Nice, great! After what rent, what state are they in, but are they equipped, how far away are they from the job? These are all some things that will have to be solved. But you need to focus, not so much on the width, up and down, kind of shoot. The space is a rare asset – a. In Slovenia we have a huge unoccupied housing fund – b. In Slovenia we have a huge amount of deruined and former industrial facilities with which we have to go into a change of destination. All I'm saying isn't finding hot water. This was done in Vienna in the 1930s, it was done by the Labour Government in England in the 1950s, 60s, but it is easy to deal with these matters. Not now the eternal answer that this is a systemic problem, but that we will examine it, but that there is no money. There'll never be money. Anyone who goes into politics needs to know that. Pizza's like that, appetites are family. There's a pizza somewhere between the kids and that little pizza. Well, we have to get inside of this somehow – what? It's impossible to do things. As far as resolutions are concerned, this, and also other, extreme time would have been somehow to take off our robes, but to stop the copy-paste of those from Brussels often insidious speeches and words. I have said many times that any resolution on any area in this country should be understandable to a third-grader. From the third triad, let's say: a dozen pages plus a few attachments. I can control this area, but when I read this national housing program – sorry, I don't want to be insulting to people in the department – I get frigid, by the way, I can't read anymore. I'm also going to read that smart specialty, and I'm going to be on the board, and there's the lines of a sausage like that, and I'm going to ask them to explain a few sentences to me, and I know they won't be able to explain them to me. Resolutions are not their own purpose. Let the resolutions be brief, make it clear that they should also order implementation, and also instruct some indicators. As a matter of fact, someone has released the spin of a great coalition. You have two relatively large customers from the SMC, if you think that's not it, then you won't vote for it. I expect in about a month that you'll give us some kind of marriage, then we'll know more about what these apartments are, whether it's the rest of the, I don't know, some of the officers' apartments that have been scattered for 20 years. Stick this to the apartments we have at the so-called bad bank, and let's get this thing settled. At the same time, of course, we will also think about some of the former industrial facilities as we will renovate them. After all, you know, in some developed world, it was 20 years ago, as my students would say, the most fancy thing to do in an old factory. After all, in this way, the problem of the culturers of my generation, and a little younger, could also be solved, literally by the church, domestically. I mean, the price of their work is not being properly valued and it's decreasing. These are some very practical, very pragmatic challenges. We already have a few solutions, we can go "over the planks" to look – without Mojca Mavec, as I say; I hope she will not sue me once – and let us tackle these matters. Of course by that logic, that, that, that and that. A whole series of things, and we're going to be exhausted here, and we're going to be, I don't know, "young, young, young, safe, security, security, dignity, dignity, dignity." Sometimes I get the feeling that he's here — I don't know what — a little school of bonton or something; or whether we're a parliament that has to solve some things! We will be abstention in this vote. The largest party of the coalition, but I am referring to you; now it is up to you to decide, because you are decisive. A good friend of mine translated the book Introduction to the Democracy of Mir Cerar into Bosnian, and lastly he writes – little political marketing – that the MC party received the parliamentary majority – which is not true and together you have it. Here, in a month, I'm waiting for this to be fixed somehow. If you vote or if there's a new law here that will at least order the solution to everything I've just said in the last 20 minutes, you'll surprise me with something else because they're going to help you with the executives. But then I will be constructive with all my best powers – colleague Godec, I am a morning man, mostly waking up between 4.37 and 5.13, so usually it points to my watch, and I will do my best to get it on. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u155	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you, President. I still, unfortunately, have not received an answer, but if the law, which would be re-proposed by a specific number, how many of these apartments are unoccupied, scheduled to be allocated for rent, for which the deadline is not yet known to give this number to the law, conditions and how this would be a sufficiently specific law to support it. I hope to get it next. With Mr Trčko, I cannot agree with my colleague Trčko that resolutions are not their own intention. Now I don't know if he meant theoretically, but then I can agree, if he meant practically, but Slovenia is a good example that obviously resolutions are their own purpose. Even because we have both read this resolution on the housing national programme, when colleague Trček also mentioned older people. I must say that I am surprised that there are specific years in this resolution; there are specific years and there is even a youth scheme in here. But since you all say that this resolution is the solution that proposes certain measures in the field of housing policy also for young people, it says here the construction of housing communities for young people. And it's even an anniversary in there – 2017. It says, however, that this is the preparation of a pilot project, that this is monitoring performance, actively promoting, providing one supply, demand, reporting and preparing mechanisms for financing the construction of such a community. It is not essential, however, when it will be built, under what conditions it will be possible to do so! I would still ask if I could at least get information on whether these 219 apartments — at least how many of them — are suitable for accommodation and how much, say, would it cost because we know that all the apartments are probably not as much as they should have invested in order to get these apartments into some so-called functionality. Don't ask me again where to get the money to make it cost extra. A concrete suggestion of where to get the money. Yesterday, with one vote, Members of New Slovenia, SDS, unrelated Members and SMC found that ministers from the Social Democrats party are very wasteful with the representatives, and here are the funds. He will eat some less lobster and he will also have money for such renovations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u157	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Pojbič and Mrs Jelka godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much, President. I must say that Mr Duck's debate has actually cheered me up a little bit, especially because, given my time at my disposal, I can't make the introductions he's made, but I can say that I fully agree with him. The Minister also knows this; and the Minister, I am sorry that you have to listen to this today, and you are not yet a proposaler. But somehow on reserve, you have to listen in advance to the things that are really waiting for you. Therefore, my question or conclusion is very simple. We have a housing problem. Of course we do. We have a housing policy. Mr. Duck said we don't have one, and I say we have one. In fact, we have now come so far with this housing policy that we can see that young generations have already, and this has happened, are thinking in this direction that in Slovenia, because otherwise you are not the true Slovenian clan, we must have a ownership apartment. Because if you don't have one, you're not worth anything in this society. We have come so far with evaluation, for in the past this was not necessary and never has been. That is why I will not go on with what Mr Trcek said, and I agree with that. But I'm going to go on the essence of the proposal made by the party. In fact, we have already had three serious housing problems in the National Assembly: one is housing that the government has not supported, the other I have proposed, the problem within the funds, of course housing funds, and the government has not supported it either. We now have a third proposal, in which, unfortunately, as proposed, I do not agree, because I am arguing that, in fact, if we really want to transfer property from the country to the housing fund, we really do not need any law. We already have this law — the Law on the Management of State and Community Property. It is very clear there that free transfer of apartments can go. More than that; more governments in the past have already done so, and more than 100 apartments have been transferred to the housing fund. But you know what the problem is? Neither did he travel with the apartment, money for maintenance, money for renovations, money for investments. That is why we are now where we are, and this is that these apartments are more or less in bulk, useless and therefore are mostly for sale in the programme. Believe me, no one will buy them. Nobody. First of all, it's because they're in locations that aren't interesting. There's no one in Blueberry who wants to buy an apartment, more or less everyone has an apartment anyway. Why there were apartments there, it's a long policy, I won't even tire of it. The second problem we have is that in the housing proposal, we really don't know what human resources housing is, and there was a lot of talk about it today, and what a rental apartment is. A rental apartment can't be bought, but it's a rental apartment with rent, which means from a public point of view, it's a non-profit rental. We have a problem because the ministries - not you, Minister, but all of them who have covered it so far - have not wanted to hear about the value of the point of rent raised for non-profit rent, of course, in the fear that the problem of social problems will increase. That's not true! We have another mechanism for this, where we can identify who's capable and who isn't. Therefore, the rental housing fund cannot be increased by non-profit rent. Because there's just no money. The next thing I know, it's very important that you end up suggesting that you buy young people over the years. How can they buy them if they can't hire them yet?Oh, my God! They don't have the money for it! This is unrealistic and unrealistic to expect someone who has a minimum social status, that we will now allow him to buy an apartment. In addition, this policy is wrong. Why buy apartments? I am in favour of creating conditions and creating conditions that we, which I have mentioned several times in the past, will be able to increase the fund – what we have invested in 1990 – a fund for renting apartments. This is the only solution, because we will never be able to build so many of them to satisfy all our appetites. That's why I suggested it. As for the transfer from DUTB, I have to say here that you let me down in the SDS a little bit. You have been so opposed to my proposal, and now you would even like to simply move these apartments for free; by being even the authors of the law or your government governing the law, how the DUMB will work at all. There you have written very clearly certain principles. That's why I'm going to tell you this: whether the elderly have let you down a little while while they've been writing this and they haven't told you, or if you have something else in your pocket, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič Excuse me, proposers, please. Mr. Jean-Mahnich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you, Vice President. Only my colleague Jani would have the answer, after five years of redemption, but it is not necessary to redeem the matter after five years. That is, if I could, I agree. Otherwise, in five years, the financial picture of young people can change, and definitely, yes, everyone would not have the money to buy the matter back. This is where my friend Jani is right. The possibility of redemption would be after five years or later, but these apartments could still be leased further.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Today I must say that there has been quite a broad debate on this subject up to this point, but I must say at the same time that this law, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be supported. But I have the same problem over and over and over again. When we propose such a law, a different law, such a solution, a different solution in the Slovenian Democratic Party, there are always problems: whether it is a systemic problem, whether we have not written things well or not we know things well enough. Most of the time, there's always a way out so nothing can be done. And we have a problem. We have a ministry, we have a government that is practical: whether we are talking about the health system – it is not a solution, whether we are talking about the problem of entrepreneurship, trade – is not a solution. Whether we are talking about the problem of employment and improving the environment for entrepreneurship is not a solution. We now propose housing law for young people and solutions for young people. We have already proposed a number of legislation. To stand by the young. It's not a solution. It's amazing what kind of government we have that for nothing is the solution. Nothing can be done — it is best to rule easily. To come to the National Assembly, to say that nothing can be done, the month goes around, four years pass, four years pay goes away, and in the end the country stays there or in a worse situation than it is. Now we have a government that has ruled for a year and three months or four months. I don't know exactly, but I don't think that's important. But now it would be time, ladies and gentlemen, not to come here to apologize in this national assembly, that some things cannot be done, but that they, the government, should bring solutions, marriage solutions to this national assembly. When we see something very wrong in this country in the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is logical that we do not care what happens to the country, we do not care what happens to young people. That is why, of course, we are proposing appropriate solutions. This bill is nothing but a proposal. We expected this proposal to come across a positive story. To prepare appropriate solutions in the second reading, which would be the best solution to this problem. But the simplest thing is to say, without doing anything, the matter isn't real, it's not the right time, I don't know what everything is – a thousand and an excuse. Today I have heard what is written in the government's opinion that you really have to laugh. How long, my dear friends, are we going to be doing this? The housing problem of young people in our country is an extremely problematic topic, an extremely problematic situation. Look, young people between the ages of 15 and 34. 70% of these young people live at home with their parents. Did anyone ask why? Did any of us ask why? The answer is clear. These young people cannot form a family because they do not have the basic conditions for survival. Among other things, one of the key things is the solution to the housing problem. If someone thinks it's not a problem and you can swing it with your left hand or your right hand and say, "Wow, we'll do it sometimes, in 40, I don't know how many years of this resolution I see." Please, that's not how it works! One is to be philosophical, today I listened to this philosophy of 20 minutes of gentlemen that I went out, I couldn't listen anymore. However, when it comes to the need to propose solutions, the SDS is on its own in most cases. So the opposition party is solving or trying to solve the key problems of this country because the government is doing nothing. Don't do anything. If anyone thinks in this House here, those who sit that we will solve this country's problem in the way we have now done have made a big mistake. He was very wrong. The situation in this country is getting worse, but it's not improving. It improves for those and those reasons we all know. God does not let anything happen on the outside — or then you will see what the key problem is. [[…]] We now have a short space of manoeuvre, which must be used extremely quickly, to make solutions, to take solutions, to be adequately prepared if such a situation arises. We have a chance now and we're busy and we're going around, I don't know, we're dealing with each other. [[...]] Governments that deal with themselves and who come over and over again say that there is no way to do it – we do not need it! We don't need it. For the last time, I told someone here from this town: "Look, sir, take a nice purse, and good luck, go home, because this is the best thing for you, and even better for the Slovenian nation, because nothing costs the Slovenian nation. But it's not worth it. Every minister, every government, every national assembly costs so much and so much this country and those people who work for us. It's logical for us to expect things to start working out. It's logical for us to expect that. If we want young people to be able to live at some point, to function normally, I said, first of all is necessary – and this is what is crucial, and I forgot to say earlier – to ensure that people come to the income, that is to say, to the salary that they can either rent an apartment or buy it. If we don't do this, this vicious circle will just get complicated. Now we have most of the mothers who are born at the age of 30. Take a look at the statistics in Slovenian. My dears, and if it's that far away, the question is what will happen in the future if they can't make a family. So we have to start working where it's crucial. We need to help solve the problem in a way that is acceptable for setting up young families. With such a law as we have now proposed, that is to say, to improve the government and the coalition, we could take one step towards it; and one step at a time, you can come up with some smart, quality and responsible solutions. If anyone thinks that this is the Slovenian Democratic Party's story, I tell you again, I hope that you will once again understand that this is not what we are doing, we are doing seriously and responsible for the purpose. Really! I hope that the representatives of the government and the coalition are also aware and that you will really think about what I am saying. Please, I don't want to offend anyone, I just want to say that we are all responsible together for the future of this country, especially for generations that are particularly exposed. I've been talking this morning, and on one side we have stories like this, no, this is the only story we could buy fourteen, fifteen apartments for this story, only we could buy fourteen, fifteen apartments and give them to families that couldn't afford it. [[...]] We've given up people who don't have money from the state budget in their pockets. That's what really bothers me in this society and in the work of this whole story. In this way, we will never create the right quality conditions for all generations, all systems, all subsystems in this country to function normally, unless we can bring any system or subsystem into order. Truly, dear friends, it is the last time, and I really wish we could understand each other in the right way that we would also understand this debate as an objective criticism of those who are responsible for the leadership of the country at this time. Not maliciously, with the goal of coming any further or any step closer to those who are exposed through this law. Those who know the river where will is also the way, believe me, there is a will, at least in our client. I am sure that there is also a way, if we step together, we connect and each part of us contribute as we can to take steps as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can. That is why I expect, indeed, that the government will come to grips with reality, that the coalition will push it a little bit, and that in a short period of time we will come up with these solutions that we are talking about today. Do not do or do this simply because the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed a solution to reject the legislation that we put on the table. We want to help you, not the other way around. But it would be expected to be the other way around, but unfortunately it isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! We have heard that this intention of marriage is not sincere. Of course I can't agree with that. Nor can I agree, of course my colleague Jani has gone away, that the older colleagues have let us down Let me say that all twenty Members and Members, every law in the parliamentary group have been reviewed and given their opinion, so that we all process it together, all twenty Members. [[…]] That this is said by Comrade Jani, who was abandoned from LDS, who was abandoned from Positive Slovenia and left from the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, but is now sitting alone in the back looking for a shelter where he would go. I cannot agree with this, so once again I repeat that this law has an honest purpose and can be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u165	Procedural proposal? Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec and Mrs. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. This morning, my colleague Trčko and I had a debate about who is the morning and who is not the morning I have to agree with this debate, including how to solve housing problems abroad, not by building a new building, but also by using old and abandoned factories and so on. [[…]] All I have to do is replicate or tell him that Santa Claus is not from Finland, but from Russia. He's from Finland, Santa Claus, so much so he knows. Today we had two issues at the meeting, one of them was the Minimum Wages Act, where all the coalition Members were happy to come to the debate, dipped in honey and milk, stressed how good the matter is, how good this law is, how good it is to help the weak, and I asked you at the previous point, what will be the response now at this point, where we also want to help one of the vulnerable groups, young people. And I have to say that, in fact, only four coalition members or SMC Members have applied, one of them has already checked out, and that we also have some kind of silence of the body or the minister is completely non-responsive; at the previous point, we saw that the minister was happy to answer all the questions, and it turned out that it was obviously a very good topic at the time. I would really ask the Minister that certain things should be answered in the meantime, that we do not repeat ourselves and that we do not ask the same questions. We have heard that nothing can be done and that a resolution is being prepared or that the Ministry has sent us a national housing programme that we have been waiting for since 2009. Only now do we have it on the tables or in the review must I say that I am increasingly seeing that the resolutions in Slovenia are their own purpose. [[…]] For some time now, the resolutions have been written, national programmes and so on, for example, under measures: we will try to increase, I don't know, the employability of young people, we will try to reduce the housing problem No concrete measures, no concrete results or indicators. [[…]] Resolutions are very good if you enter a European project, and you say, after this resolution by Slovenia, you refer to this, because in these measures you write, resolutions can actually find a lot of people. Slovenia is essentially the champion of how long young people stay at home or how many percent of young people stay at home; 85% from 18 to 29 years of age remains with parents, on the shoulders of parents, both financially dependent, materially and also residentially. One such proposal, which the Slovenian Democratic Party has now made, is the possibility of renting and later buying out apartments owned by the State, is one such proposal that can be resolved at least partially by allowing young people to become independent. Because if we don't have this housing policy - here I have to agree that we don't have it and that it's hanging in the air somewhere - that the most affected young people are if we don't have it. To say that we will be building new apartments in the future while we have so many empty old apartments, and I wonder where you're going to put them or who you're going to assign them to. Letting the mold gather in these apartments, or what do you mean? I'd rather see how empty it is. We've heard that a certain number of empty apartments are owned by banks to free up for young people in one way or another. The law is in the first reading. The marriage could have happened, even though you're all talking about how many mistakes there are. I have already heard today that the Slovenian Democratic Party is making proposals and I do not know what is missing from 13 branches on how many pages and two branches too. When there are no arguments, then you start looking at where the commas are missing and how we use the parent. Start looking at the contents. For the last time, I am not going to claim any law from the Government, from the Ministry of Labour, where all 91 members were amended because the Ministry had written a law so badly that the Law and Law Service had torn it apart. In fact, you want to break up our marriage just because you don't have the right substantive answer, why this thing isn't good, but you've settled on not being assigned. That's why it's in the first reading to finish it. But when the government sends out, I think someone has already said, with all these machines in the back, with all these experts, lawyers from the Ministry of Labour; that I am not saying that the Law-Legal Service also writes that the resolutions are so written, which are sometimes a free file, that they are not for the National Assembly. Don't look for such mistakes, not looking for commas, not looking for these selfless mistakes, rather what you're saying is that SMC is always open to cooperation. Let us make this problem a matter for young people by allowing the law to be passed through or voted for in the first reading and then by finalizing it. Obviously, we all agree that young people’s problems are a very pressing problem. I think one of these solutions is to reduce this burning problem. However, if you think you will prepare your marriage, I believe that it will not be before 2020, because so far, as has been said, we are looking at: the hands are 2018, 2020, and God knows ever again. Then the question is whether anyone else will sit in this national assembly of those who promise to do so. Please support this marriage and then we can finish it together. This silence that I see on this page will be taken as an ignorance of this proposal because it is on the SDS side and not the ignoring of youth issues. I hope you're not ignoring the issue of young people, but this law, or you're not just discussing it because it put it into the SDS procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word has been given to Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenko, to prepare Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice to meet you again. What are we facing today? On the one hand, we have empty, I'll just say, state apartments, but on the other hand, we have many young people who simply can't get to their homes and live with their parents for a very long time. We all know that young people started making families very late. If we look at it, it's some biological clock or some biological optimal age for a woman when she's supposed to have her first child, it's between the ages of 19 and 24. If we look at a little bit of statistics, we see that today a woman is on average, when she gives birth to her first child, 30 years old. I think there's something to think about. Why is this actually happening? One is certainly an education that has actually been extended to us, even because we have more educated people. The second is that young people simply do not get a job, which shows a high rate of youth unemployment. This also results in the fact that they are not actually able to buy or rent an apartment so that they can continue to make a family. I am aware that this law will not solve the housing problem of young people, but it is certainly a step in the right direction. We heard from a coworker that we have 434 empty apartments somewhere. You may complete this number accordingly. This represents a certain cost for the country, estimated at EUR 260 000. I think that with this proposal, where we are actually proposing that these apartments be leased to young families, i.e. young people under 35 years of age, those who have poorer social conditions – I think this is a good proposal. And as has been said many times here, the proposal is at first reading, let us complement it properly and we will find a suitable solution together, and we will actually do something for all young people up to the age of 35. I think this is absolutely necessary, even if we look at where we are today with Slovenian nativity. Because also because young people do not actually have the basic basic conditions for life, it also depends on how and when they will have children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Nice greetings to all present! I must say that much has already been said about this bill, which, in my opinion, I also perceive, is well-intentioned and is looking for a solution that can mean something to young families and all other housing seekers for a short time. All of you have pointed out that the Jazbinška law has brought about some strange situation inside rental apartments in the Republic of Slovenia, but let's be serious. It has been more than 20 years since then, and we are still saying that this is the fault that we are in this situation now. It is obvious that we do not have a strategy to direct rental apartments in this country. This resolution, which was presented by the Ministry and the Government, speaks of us adopting it in the early autumn, but we are no longer in the early autumn. In this resolution, there are many measures which have some effect on the period beyond 2020. There's a lot of talk about how we're going to re-study and verify something, and there's a lot of talk about how we're going to build in some future period of our apartment, and nobody's talking about the way, the resources and other means that we need to do it. However, it is all set aside in 2017, 2018, when a new government discusses this. All these resolutions and similar documents, which have been written in the last period or for several years, simply do not produce any results, so this proposal of ours is also on the table, which can have some realisation on short notice if someone also takes it and reads it. It is true, however, that most of these available dwellings are connected to some urban centres, because in the peripheral part, most of these apartments owned by individual ministries have long been transferred to local communities and have been earmarked by local communities for exactly the same purpose as we propose through this law before us. There is very little talk in this resolution on how to provide funds to these new tenants and also the possibility of hiring certain financial resources. That's not what you're talking about. In this direction, it is also likely that we should think and find some instruments that would not provide the possibility of lending only through, I would say, a working relationship for an indefinite period of time. They actually don't know this in Europe the way we do. With us, however, this is actually a very big obstacle or the biggest obstacle to young people not being able to borrow certain loans from banks. This is the way this resolution, which is before us, can otherwise step in the right direction, but this step is very long-term and will not contribute to the speedy solutions. Our law, which, as we all warn, is at first reading and can all be very happy to change or complete, brings some changes, measures and the possibility of a short-term solution, if of course good will. We are, in fact, in a situation similar to that of this National Assembly, several times so far, even when we are talking about road resolutions, and the programmes of some reconstruction, when we are talking about eliminating the consequences of the floods and so on. It is always said that there must be a system law, a resolution must first be written, but there is no short-term action. That is exactly what our law is about, and I believe that those who think a little differently and who have been in the past, whether you have been in the economy or in some local community, will agree that such a law can be upgraded and at least there is a stone in the mosaic to make things better.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u172	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Today, there have been some indications that this law will not be passed just because it comes from the types of SDS. I have to deny that, that's not true. As I have already explained in the position of our Group of Members, this law is problematic because of its imperfections. That's the problem. The law is simple in conflict with some other laws that regulate this issue. In its non-existent transitional provisions, it does not regulate how these other laws will change, but it does not specify the number of these dwellings, in particular or in the explanatory memorandum. Today we have heard our colleague Mahnič ask the Minister to explain how many apartments are suitable for accommodation. Thus, we are discussing a proposal for a law that certain apartments should be put into the fund and then leased and sold to beneficiaries, and we do not even know how appropriate it is. That's a big problem. We cannot accept such a marriage for this reason. As far as the Resolution on the National Housing Programme is concerned, it's just some software paper. Of course it doesn't. The Act establishing the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the National Housing Programme shall implement the Fund. Of course, this motion for a resolution also stipulates that it is also implemented by the Ministry and that it is reported on. As far as this is concerned, there is no doubt that we will be able to monitor which parts of the national housing programme will be implemented and when will be implemented. I will not repeat myself in what I have already pointed out before that the regulation of the housing problem of young people is also specifically defined. So this proposal that we already have in the National Assembly regulates this topic that you are defending today. We will not wait and accept yet I do not know what on this basis, but we already have this proposal in the National Assembly. That is to say, it will soon be on the parental committee and at the hearing and you will be able to make any comments. If you feel that you need to accept another supplement to make it easier to realize, of course you will propose this. I'd remind you again, look, it's obvious that if we don't accept this and so on, these apartments are going to go down, they're going to be moldy. I don't know. It's a similar impression. You yourself were in power from 2004 to 2008; for the first time, a long enough period for you to accept it at that time, you did not. So in 2004, the same apartments that were empty were 11 years younger. I don't know why you waited 11 years to propose this marriage. And I'll tell you why. It is unfortunate that this is one of those laws that you are successfully investing in the National Assembly, which do not actually have any weight, except for the title, and from a legal point of view, they are completely inconvenient that you can then read the coalition, see, but we have already proposed a hundred laws, and you are not yet one. In short, it's one of those laws that you're collecting statistics with, as I said before, but it bothers me that it's a marriage or a problem that's extremely important, but as I said, this issue is solved first under the national housing programme. There was still much to be heard about OECD studies. I agree with this, young people need to be able to make up for themselves, but I just don't like the debate that goes this way, that now young people have to have an apartment, older people, let's say old people, and they have to be on their own, and the country has to take care of them. Why not encourage everyone to live nearby and perhaps to help themselves? It's not the last time this is about families. But with us, it seems to me like it's some kind of social status, that you have to have your own car, as far as possible, you have to have every car in the family, every apartment of yours. See, the problem of young people is not that they have to have their own apartments, but that they have a roof over their heads and that they are independent inside these roofs. Now, if this roof is close to the parents or apart from the parents, I don't think it should be problematic. We may even need to encourage this. Like I said, the marriage is incomplete. I believe that we cannot complete it with some corrections, but at the same time we are destroying this proposed national system in other ways, where housing problems of others are also being addressed. I'm talking about those who are 36 years old. This is about the younger ones. In short, we can't do partials just for one, let's give all the apartments to one, and then we have an unresolved situation with the other. We need to resolve the matter in an integrated way, according to one strategy, in a broader document, and then regularly follow this strategy, which I believe we will also be through this national housing programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Chuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I must say that a large part of this problem, which the drafters are trying to solve, has been resolved or at least set to come to a solution in 2009. At that time, a lot of housing was transferred from individual ministries to the housing fund, but the problem was how to arrange these apartments so that you could rent them as well. This law also refers to the fact that there should be advantages in renting or accessing these apartments to young people, especially those who are in a poor social situation. Here comes this problem, which needs to be taken very seriously today and also tried to solve. In fact, if someone is in a very bad situation, and even young people usually do not have such incomes, it is a big problem already to pay the rent itself, let alone arrange this apartment with their own resources. Today we should actually think about how these young families can be afforded, without going to buy these apartments, because if they are socially weak, even if you can’t pay the rent practically, even after five years, as the law stipulates, you will find it difficult to become the owner of this apartment. And even after you become the owner, you have limitations on various social transfers that allow you to make your life easier and shape your family policy and try to shape your future. So this transition to an ownership relationship or to the sale of these apartments is something that will cause a very big problem, because it will simply mean a big part of the burden. Therefore, it would be more reasonable to think about not thinking about selling these apartments, but about maintaining the rental housing fund. In Slovenia, though, the fact that we do not have enough rents at our disposal is a significant number of ownership, which is actually insufficient. Even in this case, when young people come under favourable conditions to this apartment, a smaller apartment, once their family is enlarged, may, as a rule, be able to reach a larger apartment within this housing fund. This mechanism is much more vital and I think it's more necessary right now than it is to think about selling these apartments. Given the fact that young people and those with a poor social situation are being considered, it would certainly be more appropriate to build a mechanism that allows them to invest some of their own resources in these apartments. However, if they invest their own resources, they must be forgiven the rent in order to be paid through rent. I think it would be very important to think about what we once had in Slovenia, if you are solving a housing problem, and especially if we are talking about young people today, if young people are solving a housing problem, it would be very reasonable to take this into account in the Income Act. So, each account counts, so with an account that proves that you bought the material, that you ordered some service that helps you solve the housing problem, the state helps you in a way that makes you less burdened with income. These two mechanisms I think would be very important and crucial today if we really wanted to enable young people to address their housing needs in a way that will be manageable for them. From what is stated in this law — this is not foreseen. I'm really warning you, there are more and more people who own apartments, but it's getting more and more heavy on them. Even when we talk about the property tax law, it will be very important how we define the very first apartment you need for your life, whether it will be additionally taxed or not. At least in my opinion, that should not be taxed. If you have the basic conditions in this apartment provided, it is not expected that you should pay an additional tax that may have been imposed on real estate in Slovenia. For this reason, today this debate is welcome to draw attention to all of this. In fact, it is difficult to reach this point through the implementation of this law, so that socially weak young families can really be placed in a position to pay rent and to renew this housing fund. In fact, in 2009, the problem arose because these apartments had moved into a housing fund, but of course there was not enough resources to transform these apartments and train them to rent them. In short, the resources for the young people I've told me would make sense to look for them as soon as possible, and I think they would make a very big move in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that some of the debates between Members and Members of the coalition or even opponents of this proposal were not or were, in my opinion, going in the right direction or Members were based on how to improve the law through the legislative process and where to seek even better solutions, which was also our intention. However, I must say that some members of the coalition have repeated two, three arguments, which we have been listening to for one year in the National Assembly, here I am mainly talking about the Modern Centre Party, where they simply repeat one, two arguments. I would like to say that, in the past, our party, as in the opposition or in the coalition, has pointed to the problem of accessibility of dwellings for young people. I would like to say, for Mr Zorčič, that the National Housing Programme was designed, including inter-resort coordination, in 2012, to provide a number of concrete measures that also addressed the youth housing policy. But then the ruling policy after the fall of the Janša government decided that this was obviously not the right document or a sufficient document, or I do not know what had happened, to date another national housing programme was being adopted. I would like to say that I am also somehow coming from the youth sector, and this problem of accessibility for young people has been talked about for a very long time, many years, and when I am a Member, I have done my job by seeing problems, and then I try to find some solutions. We should all strive to do this, not to close our eyes to problems, because I simply cannot get rid of the feeling that there is a sense in many of the present or in the ruling political structure that there are problems, but that they will be saved from themselves. I don't like this approach the most because we all know it won't do anything. In our parliamentary group, we draw attention to the problem of young people in a number of areas, a number of areas, and we would mention our efforts to abolish or eliminate volunteer traineeships. Here in the National Assembly we had three different suggestions that we were dealing with – but what happened? The coalition once again decided to postpone or seek solutions to a distant future. The same is true of course here when we are talking again about 2018, 2020. Our mandate will probably end before then, and then the new state choice will deal with the same issue again, and we will not do our job. I am pleased that today we are talking about some concrete legislative proposals in the field of youth and youth; that is, I believe that, above all, the ruling policy underestimates the issue of young people and the generation of young people. For me, the issue of young people is one of the key issues that the country should address as such and also by addressing this problem, because this is crucial both to the existence of a country and, of course, to the future. I also hear many times from a coalition member to talk about the past. No, this is today's debate on the future. I would also like by the coalition to submit to the National Assembly a number of laws that would regulate the current situation at all. In fact, there's no such thing as a reform law. We all know that economic growth comes mainly from exports, including the conclusion of the financial perspective, from Brussels, and I do not think we have done everything we can. I would like to speak to myself about the housing problem of young people, for six years now governments have been promising some concrete solutions, and to this day there have been no solutions; these, which are somehow on the agenda or most often discussed, are immediately torn apart by the professional public. I am justifiably concerned about what will happen in the future, and yet I do not think that the country and policy will find the best solutions to this issue. Our legislative proposal certainly improves the existing situation, and as the opposition party, of course, we do not have all of this, I will say, professional support and also review the current situation. We come from data that we can get, we do our best, and we certainly put the law into first reading. The first reading is because we want this opinion from the Government, other Members and Members. I myself am pleased with the debate of some who, in my opinion, were primarily looking for solutions, but some of them were, of course, particularly maligned or were against this law from the same constant arguments. Speaking of the situation and problems of the young generation in the country, it will certainly be necessary to pursue an intergenerational coordination policy in the future. Indeed, I have the feeling that the policy of the last few years, when I think the state is over-indebted, does not bring about any concrete and necessary reforms, leads to an intergenerational conflict. As a citizen and as a politician, I do not want this at all. It will therefore be necessary to take greater account not only of the desire in the future, but also of the needs of the young generation. Actually, there are problems, and we close our eyes in front of them. In my presentation on the position of the Group of Members, I said that a National Youth Programme had been adopted in the previous term of the National Assembly, which also addresses the housing problem of young people in some chapters. We were also in the opposition at the time, and we supported the draft text of the National Youth Programme, which somehow defines the key priorities that policy must pursue in the youth field by 2022, but we have said that we will keep an eye on this implementation. Today we find, and not only us, but also youth organisations, the youth sector, that it does not help us if we have some action plans, long on a few hundred pages, but then in practice none of this solves problems. That is why we have already called for an urgent meeting of the Education Committee, at which we have adopted some concrete conclusions, but it still seems to me that young policies are not answering the most important issue. I would therefore like to repeat my own initiative and call: young people need to be included in social dialogue. In my opinion, it is also necessary to consider the existence of the Economic and Social Council; some consider it unnecessary, an old body. However, I do not underestimate social dialogue, but in Slovenia social dialogue does not involve all generations, so it should also include a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council. I gave this initiative even when Mrs Bratušek led the government. It had nothing against this initiative, even supported this initiative to some extent, and against it were trade unions and employers' associations. A few days ago, I received a response from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when I reiterated this initiative that at least one representative of the young generation should be included in the Economic and Social Council, and I received an answer that young people were already adequately represented in the Council of the Government for Youth. I was kind of disappointed with this response because, however, the President of the Government often comes to the National Assembly and says that young people are a priority. But it is a fact that they may be on paper and in practice they certainly are not. No action has been taken to address the issue of young people, nor has the Government of Mir Cerar sent them to the National Assembly. No action is taken and all opposition efforts are blocked by the parliamentary majority of the coalition. If I spoke earlier about volunteer traineeships, it was now the last decision to give a solution by June 2016. Perhaps then we will convene an urgent meeting again, and the coalition will vote on the decision to postpone for another year and for another year, and this is roughly what is happening in politics. Well, at least in those two and a half years I've been here, I've got this feeling. Dual education is another such concrete proposal that we have proposed. Once again, it was decided that a system solution should be drawn up within one year. We have proposed changes in student diet, but it has been rejected. I kind of expect the President of the Government and the Members of the Modern Centre Party to start meeting and doing what you say is a priority for young people. I am sure that you will have support from our kind in such measures and legislative proposals, but of course you should come to the National Assembly with something and propose something. I'm on my way to the end of the debate. I would like to say that the housing problem of young people is extremely important. This problem is not from yesterday, so it is not the most appropriate to criticize the minister who came to this area, but please take our proposal for a law as an effort to draw the attention of the opposition to the real problems, to the future-oriented talks and to come together to find solutions to problems that are growing. I suggest that Youth 2010 and 2014 study read each of you because I am sure that there are no many. Housing issues, and self-reliance, are exposed as one of the priorities and young people need to be given the conditions to be able to get on their own, to get a job, and we, as politicians, need to take care of a favourable business environment and create an environment in which young people will see a perspective and a future in Slovenia. As I am talking a lot to my peers at the end of the Lower Lawn Region, which is also one of the less developed regions in the country, and I must say that unfortunately the trend is worrying. More and more they turn to going abroad, and this is not only possible in neighbouring countries, but to really forget where they came from and in the hope of a better future they have traveled or looked for a better future in many remote places. I would still appeal to the MPs of the coalition. The law is in the first reading. I hear many times from the coalition that they are working to cooperate, but so far we have proposed 35 laws in our Member States, one has been adopted, everything else has been rejected, and neither have we received an initiative nor have we invited any meeting to seek the best solutions together. I would still appeal, let us step together, through the legislative process, to find even better solutions, that the law will be the best in practice, and that it will solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The government is paying attention to all people, but it is true that we all like to talk about young people, especially those who may be a little older, or those who design programmes in politics, in no way can we forget about young people. True, the difference is whether we talk a lot about young people or do something small for young people. When this law is prepared, and I am listening to this debate today, I admit that it is a surprise to me that those who have already had the opportunity to transfer their housing to the housing fund, then to the following procedures, did not do so when they had these options. And to tell you the truth, I understand why they didn't do it. Since 2009, no new housing has been purchased. The mass of dwellings unoccupied, which are intended for sale, are dwellings like the remains of dwellings that were not redeemed when the Jasbinski law was in place. If we see that this law was in force 20 years ago, you can imagine the condition of these apartments. A lot of housing then went into this set of personnel apartments when the Payments Agency went bankrupt. If I tell you where these apartments are, these apartments are in Gornja Radgona, Idria, Mirni, Tolmin. So where there's no demand for these apartments, unfortunately. Indeed, there are no personnel empty apartments in Ljubljana, and surely the demand for empty apartments in Ljubljana is the highest. As mentioned earlier, some apartments have moved into the Housing Fund. The housing fund, which is not the subject of today's treatment, has empty apartments, many empty apartments are also here in Brdo, in the immediate vicinity of Ljubljana. The opening of the neighbourhood in Velenj was, too, an investment by the Housing Fund. So I don't agree with the statement that we don't do anything. However, it is true that much remains to be done, and I agree in this regard, this is not a dilemma for me, that more cooperation with the Student Organisation is needed, and I also hope to argue with the Youth Council of Slovenia, although the first steps that have been taken by the Housing Fund as well as the participation of co-workers at the Ministry show that we can expect a successful shift or a positive shift in the design of these projects. Such new projects are therefore not about classic rental apartments, but are also about a new approach to community cohabitation. I tell myself many times that it is amazing how in these traditional housing blocks people do not know each other, do not welcome each other, from door to door they rarely meet, there is no way to help each other, because communication is now very limited. So the phone's over. Most of all, we communicate with our people on the phone. And we want to take that approach now. Young people will say whether this is acceptable to them or not, or whether they want it, or if they are already disturbed by possible friendly communication, they are not committed to it, they do not want to communicate with each other in this way. What I am now saying is, of course, a matter of resolution, as well as a resolution, I hope to state that from 2009, when it should be written or adopted, until 2015 the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia worked without a resolution, and at that time the Housing Fund actually had an open field to invest in, where to invest, where to invest. This indicates that this concern, which is so strongly emphasized today, is not real. She's imaginary. Indeed, in these years, if a proper approach were to be taken if the programme were to be implemented if investments under the programme were to be made, it would be less pressing for young people to maintain the opportunities they had for obtaining credit. It is true, however, that in this debate or through this debate we have changed the course of the generational event – we have said that young people today decide later on for the family, later on for the children – and we will not change that too. To sum up reality, that is to say, that young people decide their own future, how they will organise themselves, this seems essential to me when working with them. Indeed, the time for them, as it was for us when we were young, is something completely different, as we perceive it, they perceive it certainly differently, and that is why with these project plans, groups want to set up a system or a way that they themselves want. We are not the ones who will dictate how and how to solve these basic things; so how to get to the apartment, how to organize, how to live in an environment. However, it is true that in this resolution we are not only stressing young people, I have already said in my address that we are somehow following three groups; so, young people, then older ones. For the elderly, too, life has changed over the years, not always, but especially if they are individuals who have unfortunately lost a mate, some find a way to socialize. We know that pensioners meet together, and they help each other a lot, but there are also many older people who do not find this way and who are truly lonely. Well, we also try to make a solution for them, or a possibility, that this loneliness might not be so difficult. When we talk about investments or regulating areas for more vulnerable groups, this is a project of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is financed more through the Cohesion Fund. I am sure that these groups or these people will be pleased with the solutions. So once again, I would like to say that this fund with which you want to solve the housing problem, at least for the beginning, unfortunately will not solve the problems that are in urban centres, these are Maribor, Ljubljana, of course first, then Maribor, and does not give this topic the solutions that would be real. So, apartments, over 20 years old, in environments where, unfortunately, after many attempts to do so with sales and the possibility of renting, it is difficult to talk today about how they will be leased. As we said, Gornja Radgona, Idrija, Mirna, Tolmin; therefore, these apartments are largely also the apartments of former military units, which remained by some key at the Ministry. I would like to point out that the Government, by not agreeing with the adoption of this law, which will certainly be obvious, but here I am denouncing it, does not agree; not because it does not pay much attention to young people, but does not agree because this is not the case in this way. When we consider the resolution, we will look more closely at this programme, we will say, but it is true that if today is an opportunity, I can say that young people are already turning to the Housing Fund. It's a possibility. We will be happy if a number of young people are willing to rent their apartments by now. I know the rooms are in New Town. This cycle, not the construction of new apartments, but the rental of existing apartments, will run faster. In this work, it is also possible today to encourage young people to look at their options through the Housing Fund. When it comes to building or addressing this topic, how many empty dwellings do we have with Slovenians, and with the debaters, you have actually talked about it, I absolutely agree. The real estate tax law had already introduced some unrest between owners at the time. Now that's, I'd say, a little calm. On the one hand, however, it is amazing to have these empty apartments, because we know that they are the owners and, on the other hand, they would re-enter the premises and build new apartments, and then in these old buildings, they would fail to use the space. This is one of the fundamental problems of today. It will be seen whether we will be able to prepare this real estate tax law in the Government quickly enough, and perhaps after the resolution has been adopted, we will find that housing does not have to be built at all, but the existing housing fund for young families, young applicants – it is not necessary that they are families, as only young people – can afford the right stay or stay that they want. For the last time, this disagreement about the adoption of this law does not mean that we do not have adequate care and attention for young people, only means that, in the manner envisaged by law, we do not see a solution to this larger and more comprehensive problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. Hainz. Colleagues and colleagues, for the last time at this point. The Minister said that it was interesting that a proposal was coming from those who had already had the opportunity to do so with the Minister in the past. I agree, but there is something to be said. If we agree to such logic, then it's true, the client can have a four-year government and the matter ends. Look, you can't handle all this stuff in four years. There are new problems coming up, new ideas coming up, how we can work things out. In 2012, when another Janša government swore, the country was in such a disarray that some other things had to be settled before that. Those five things, which the OECD today also praises or exposes as key, pension reform, labour market reform, reduction of the expenditure side, are said to be a reduction of the deficit, a poor bank and a state holding company. These five key things were identified by the OECD as key to the exit of Slovenia from the crisis and are also praised by Minister Marble in New York and I do not know where else. That's why I went into politics myself to propose some things. You also said, Madam Minister, that in the debate we will not change some of the certain flows that they are. I agree here, too. We're not going to change them. We're not going to change them. We're not going to change them. With concrete actions, with legislative proposals, even such as this, we will change certain things and turn the trend in a positive direction. But I can't agree with you at all, and nobody said that we're saying you didn't do anything. I didn't say that. It is my duty as an opposition Member that I am critical that I am rightly critical that I am a government supervisor. But my way of doing things is also positive, and I can also commend you. Not now in this area of young people, but I have also publicly commended you on the October floods, and there have been many changes in the Polish Valley due to your actions. The Coalition Treaty stated that you will adopt a national housing programme for 2014 to 2020. You've accepted it for five more years. I am afraid that some of these measures, which are in here, will be three essential measures to adopt some legislation, to set up a commission and to provide financial resources. But this is a resolution that is very general. However, we do have in particular years until 2025, but again some mode of operation of this government. Analyses, preparations, positive movements, including the search for financial resources, but concrete proposals for when this implementation is to take place are not. The resolution is just the basis for us to talk about this much more. It is sad that we needed, say, one year to have, today, a really effective debate, to talk about the housing problem of young people. These apartments, these bibian topics, there's still a lot of them. We also have a serious problem in a rural area where farms are falling apart, where empty farms are. What are we gonna do with these? These are also potential facilities that can be provided to young people, not least, if I remember correctly, I do not know whether you put this in a coalition contract or not, you will try to keep young people in the countryside. It is also necessary to look for some measures to ensure that young people secure an apartment, as you said in Brezovica, in Mirna or elsewhere, but not that the whole raid will only take place in Ljubljana, but that people remain in the countryside. Unfortunately, I have not heard the answer to the question that I have repeated three times today, four times, and that is whether a concrete proposal would be acceptable to the Government, to the Ministry and acceptable to the coalition, if proposed, to define in concrete terms what it means to be unscathed, because it is obvious that we have the expert services of the Government in our country of people who do not know what the term does not mean. If, in particular, in view of this answer I have received to my question, we define which are unscrupulous and from those 219, which, say, 50, are suitable, immediately after three months when all the necessary is prepared for broadcasting. Under such and such conditions for young people. We'd leave those conditions in there. Unfortunately, I did not get the answer to this question either from the Government or from the Minister. When I first said that we would look at the Slovenian Democratic Party after doing some analysis of what you have proposed today by Members and Members, I can draw the line that the law is not systematic. Otherwise, some specific matters were not heard, except that this is a specific topic; but if we consider this as a specific topic, we might adopt another resolution, even in 2025, when we, for example, accept it for the next ten-year period, nothing will be better. I can say I don't know what, say, based on these discussions you're having right now. On the one hand, it is not fair on your part, when we, I don't know if it was Wednesday or Tuesday, talking about archival law, you said that we are dealing with history again when we are discussing this proposal on the housing problem of young people today, you say that this is not a systemic measure. In short, if we're trying to fix something up, it's not okay if we want something to move forward, and it's not okay. Of course, we will support this law and, on the basis of what we have heard, we will prepare further measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since time has not yet run out, we can still discuss the matter under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and therefore ask if you will discuss it. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. Once again, I warn and remind you that we will not have names on the screen, but we will get a list from the on-call room by randomly sorted debaters. He wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. I give the floor to Mrs. Marinka Levicar. I'm warning you, every debater has five minutes and three of you have been reported. Here you go, Marinka.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister for his encouraging last word on this proposal for the adoption of this law, and I hope that the resolution on the national programme will be implemented soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to come over again, but something got me a little distracted, and since we have five more minutes, a little less, I'm gonna take them. Young Mr. Chuš said he came into politics and when he detects a problem, he tries to respond. Not to take this as a personal criticism, but some more modern societies and countries are trying to detect predetermined antagonisms and certain challenges and try to solve them before they become a problem. We're an old society, that means something. Bridges are in such and such a state, I have read in German newspapers, and they say they have a lot of bridges in bad condition, but we probably don't have to fight here, who believes in what to look at, what the state of the bridges we're going to rebuild with some dynamics. I think that's the way we have to think. I come from Maribor, where they wanted to start a residential cooperative, they reviewed the legislation, they prepared up and down, they even talked to the congregation to get a construction site, where they would build, where it somehow turned out that then it was broken down, that it was a foreigner that people still don't understand. We are now talking about the national housing programme, where there is something written and literally, you know, this is not one of them – but let, I don't know, Mr. Marble's hands fall away from hitting the table – it's not some crazy million. You know, some pilot projects could be done with relatively little money. As I have already mentioned in some deindustrialised areas that belong, which are becoming even dangerous. Remember, years ago – what were they? – Czech students wanted to take pictures here at Knaflje Pass, and one of them went down and killed herself. We've got a big deal going on here. Certain countries also have legislation that should be taken into account to ensure that such facilities are essentially dangerous, that they are actually occupied, if you want, by the owner of the city, by the state, in any way and that their destination changes and can be offered for such matters. There are quite a few people in Slovenia who have walked a little around the world who know how to do this to the service, who also know at this organisational and logistical level to do it. Let's say we don't have any architectural assistance after all. We've been talking, living, like, a generation-long mixed family, and there's more and more work at home. They're not some crazy millions again. We have young architects who are unemployed, who have this knowledge, how will a housing unit, if you want a house, an apartment, whatever, be transformed, so that we can stay together more easily. Mr. Weber was talking about, say, how would you get from a smaller apartment to a bigger rental? We don't have the logic yet, but maybe I'll step back like I did somewhere else. Which bothers me, too. Madam Minister said somehow, because we will do as much as we will, we will not do this, and she mentioned Upper Radgona, Idria and Tolmin. Wait, these are some regional centers. Now I won't go back and watch what the government hasn't done. I am convinced that with some more active policy, with the participation of local authorities, local communities, national communities, probably sometimes this was also a problem because one of the parties, the other from the other, this apartment would not have collapsed for fifteen, twenty years. There are probably people in Gornja Radgona, Idria and Tolmin who have all the status of the city who would need these apartments. You know, it would be insulting for me to be told, I don't know, by Zila's former branch school in the White Land, no one will buy there — there I was born, and now there's a firehouse, we've made a change of destination. That's why I'm talking to you. In short, I'm going to say, it seems to me that we have to overcome this logic also because of whether we swear to socialism, to capitalism, or to something else, we have to start a little by healthy farming logic with the environment and space. I also call once again for the active role of Parliament, some certain parliaments are more co-created, the legislation is finally written, I said earlier. We have two large clients if SMC doesn't think this marriage is good enough to run him over, bring me someone better within a month, and we'll work on it. But if he thinks it's for further consideration, vote, let's keep working. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Majcen, Minister, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you. I believe you can talk past each other, but I don't want to talk about it. I would just like to say about the plasticity of the display that we're selling or that in the sales process, the apartments are worth between 10 and 11,000 euros. This already tells the stranger that there must be something wrong with the apartment. These are apartments that are outside, but in Ljubljana is on the seventh floor of a tower or a block that has no lift available a group residential area of six or seven rooms with only one bathroom. This is this fund, for which you in some way propose to offer it in this lease relationship with young people. I must tell you that Article 92 of the Housing Law, which must be followed by the Republic of Slovenia, the Housing Commission of the Government, including the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, speaks of the fact that housing must be properly arranged if it is to be leased, so unfortunately I cannot accept your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will vote in half an hour in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end the 12th item of the agenda and the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which we shall continue by vote at 20.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u188	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Minimum Wages Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Minimum Wages Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you for your word and a lovely evening all together. In the United Left, of course, we welcome and are pleased that today all parliamentary parties have agreed that these changes are necessary to eliminate the anomalies within the minimum wage. In fact, union headquarters have taken an important step here to exclude from the minimum wage allowances for overtime, night work, Sunday and holiday work and to bring the minimum wage closer to what it should be, so that it becomes the basis, the absolute bottom under which the employer cannot be released, and all additional extra extra burdens are paid separately. So, overtime, night work, Sunday work and so on, paid separately, the minimum wage becomes a bottom. Some of these anomalies have already been removed from the existing proposal, but unfortunately not from all of them. Within the minimum wage there are still certain supplements such as work-life allowances, heavy working conditions allowances such as work at altitudes, and supplements included in collective agreements. At this point, I predict that in the United Left we will, of course, put in a second reading of this law an amendment that will remove all anomalies, not just some, from the definition of minimum wage. Today, of course, we will support this proposal, given what has been heard today, which I reiterate, but I look forward to a constructive debate in the second round, and I also expect that we will be able to discuss the complete elimination of the anomalies of the definition of minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u190	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. It's 75 votes and no one's. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Resolution of the Housing Problem of Young People. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled this proposal in order to ensure that some more than 210 unoccupied apartments owned by the Government or by certain ministries and not in 2015 and 2016 are not provided for renting or selling to young and young families under 35 years of age. In doing so, those who are socially weaker would have the advantage. After five years of these non-profit rentals, they would also have the opportunity to buy these apartments, all of which, by then, would have been counted at the purchase price. I believe that something needs to be done in this area, the resolution itself on housing issues, which we will deal with and adopt in the coming weeks, does not adequately address this housing problem especially for young people, so we have here the first concrete proposal, and will continue to follow. We will vote in favour in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u192	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. There were 23 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a bill on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on legal aid in civil and criminal matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. There's 72 votes and no one's. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of agreements between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Australia on the programme of work and social visas. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. It is on the defence motion for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on police cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is on the defence motion for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on police cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on the transfer and reciprocity of contributions within the framework of the single resolution agreement. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. It's not working. Wait. We'll wait a while, technical problems. I'm too strong for that. Effective technical assistance. Are we ready? We're voting. Now we're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 3. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On behalf of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America, on the agenda item on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement on procurement and mutual services between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 71, 4 votes against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its member states on the one hand and Mongolia on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 71.3 votes against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda, with the third reading of the proposal for a law on non-materialised securities under the regular procedure. On Wednesday, 23 September 2015, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled, which are published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 48 and the amendment of the Members of the United Left and the unrelated Members and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. In the United Left and in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have tabled an amendment to Article 48 of the Law on Non-Materialised Securities. Indeed, this law is sold by the Government on the grounds that it is a matter of coordination with European directives, or more specifically, for coordination with the so-called T2S system in Europe, but in Article 48 something completely different is hidden. Article 48 contains a provision to abolish the registration accounts currently registered at the Clearing House. These accounts are owned by people who are in transition, it is said, when the certificates were distributed, here and there with which the company received a share and are now small and micro shareholders. The first, in most cases, is for people who are not wealthy, for older people who already have such poor pensions, and for people who are likely to have this kind of share, if they still have it, represents their only financial assets at all. There are currently some 265,000 people in Slovenia, and by this law, if adopted in the form that is currently on the table, Article 48 will put them in a very unenviable position. In fact, they will be placed in a position where they can decide: or A – their assets will be transferred from the register accounts to so-called garbage accounts or B – they will have to transfer their assets from the register accounts to commercial accounts at the stock exchange houses, even though they have no purpose to trade with these shares, but they only have this property, which will cost them first 35 and 25 to 35 euros to open these commercial accounts, and then every year the costs of running these accounts will come, and so on. In short, it is a mass transfer of 260 thousand small and micro shareholders to the stock exchange houses; who has the benefit of that, it is clear: the benefit of this will be exclusively the stock exchange houses. In Slovenia, they have two dominant market positions and the All-Slovenia Small Shareholders Society has calculated that they will earn between €5 million and €10 million only through this measure. In the United Left and in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, of course, we are opposed to such measures, which are clearly profitable, and therefore we have proposed that the simple withdrawal of registration accounts be exempted from this law, that these people be given the opportunity to maintain the current free management of these accounts, because they do not trade these shares, but only have them, it is said, there are only for the record, and with these accounts there are no costs, and that is essentially to be settled in this way, because this is not in any way contradicted by the very meaning of the European Directive, which is being transposed into Slovenia's legal order by the whole amendment of the law. This is how we will clearly vote in favour of this amendment. I also call on the other parliamentary groups here to make the same decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u194	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, President! Dear fellows and fellows, once again a nice greeting! With regard to the law in question, I would not lose too many words because it has already been exposed in the debate, but I think it is right that I use a sentence or two. The fact is that the implementation of the Euro project marked T2 S means that the substance of this change in Slovenian legislation is in the direction of ensuring cross-border European transactions with non-materialised securities, at the same time reducing the number of intermediaries, and what is important is that the costs of such transactions are also reduced. As a result, the cancellation of registration accounts held in the Republic of Slovenia in a company called the Clearing House. In this regard, it is true that, as the previous honourable Member mentioned, they tabled an amendment, which he also briefly explained. In the debate itself, which was held a few days ago, the Group of the Party Mir Cerar explained that this amendment is not in this context, as is expected in some way to be discussed in amending the law. It was also mentioned that they explained the amount relating to the operation and closing of accounts which is much higher than it is similar – and it was also presented that the analogy is linked to the opening of commercial accounts in so-called traders, that is to say the stock exchanges and also the banks which have the relevant licence to do so. In this context, the coalition of all parties tabled an amendment and the substance of this amendment was followed in some direction by small shareholders to close these so-called registration accounts for legal persons only from 30 days. 6. 2016 and for natural persons 1. 1. 2017. The important point and the message is that such registration accounts from this address, estimated in some direction at 260 000 circus, are not charged by the central registration company, that is to say free. We assess and consider this to be the only meaningful thing and it is also very much in favour of the holders of these accounts. In this regard, I would like to touch another amendment, the drafter of this amendment, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which also tabled an amendment to Article 48. The content of this amendment is that it complements the title of this Article, since the proposal for a law is stated – the abolition of registration accounts and this amendment complements them by setting maximum management costs. In this regard, we have a bit of a dilemma in the Group of Members, and I would really ask the proposer to explain to us what they had in mind in this context, in particular, because the determination of the maximum management costs may also entail some interference with this relative ownership right. I must admit, however, that in this context, due to a better understanding that three entities, namely the issuer, the holder and the operator, are emerging in the transport of intangible securities. Here is the content of this amendment by the SDS Member Group, which is linked to the operator, this is a member of the depository company, which is normally the only entity capable of carrying out such transport. That is why I would ask, President, if the applicant can explain a little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u196	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr Verbic, thank you very much for the additional question and encouragement in explaining our amendment. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party effectively limit the maximum possible costs to be incurred by the holder of the intangible securities. It limits, of course, to a certain extent and to a certain degree, because if these costs were too high, the stock exchange house has the possibility of actually reducing the percentage, in which case 0.5 % is proposed, which means that these costs cannot in any case be enormously high. The essence of this amendment is that, in particular, for small investors or investors with smaller amounts, these costs are limited in some way or – with a foreigner – are limited. This, of course, means, as the Securities Market Agency, which has already sent a letter to the Competition Agency, in this letter mentioned that these costs are, and these costs will also be disproportionately high in relation to the value of this securities. In other words, if someone, for example, has a security worth 100 euros, he will actually pay each year, say, between 12% and 15% of the costs for this paper to be kept. The first is that the KDD has its tariff of just less than 4 euros and they add their costs to this tariff. This means disproportionateity. This disproportionateity has also been pointed out in many decisions by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, not in this regard, but in other relations. For this reason, we believe that it is also appropriate for this event, when it is actually a proposal to abolish registration accounts, to actually limit these costs. This means, in other words, that this small shareholder will not have to pay more than 0.5% and, of course, a large shareholder will be able to pay less than 0.5% on the basis of the free policy of each stock exchange house. As we know, we also now have this limitation. Here I would like to say that in some way this is a restriction, for the first time, in the direction of holding back and increasing the so-called labour stock market, to hold back as many investors as possible because I think it is in the interests of the whole of society, and on the other hand to limit disproportionateity. Indeed, the Securities Market Agency also points out that the pricing of stock exchanges is being determined in a coordinated manner. Today we can speak, the concerted operation of all these operators. In other words, they agree. We are saying today that all transactions are accounted for in banks. They also account for approximately the same costs for transaction accounts. Banks. However, we know that there is no great competition between banks, real competition, because here you can also look at their association and see how much these costs are charged for individual services. Similarly, within the framework of an association that includes a stock exchange house, this is a coordinated operation. This is also recalled by the Securities Market Agency. Which means the market doesn't work here; the market doesn't even work if foreigners come and they're going to lower it because that's exactly what happened when foreign banks entered the Slovenian financial market. They did not reduce the costs of financial services, but simply adjusted. As a result, we believe that this measure is appropriate, will not affect any of them, but will actually extend the market and will in fact determine the proportionality of the costs paid by these investors. We think that's fair. This is fair to Slovenian taxpayers, Slovenian investors, who have actually become shareholders in a very large number according to their specificities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u198	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. In this Article 48, we have made a strong commitment mainly on the grounds that we are trying to minimise the costs incurred by the owners of intangible securities. However, it has been a very long period since they received these intangible securities, but nothing has actually happened to them. So they had some property, but they didn't either know it or they wanted to use it, or else the value was such that it was of very little interest that anything was going on with that security. We therefore welcome Article 48 in order to build a mechanism so that it can be transferred, free of charge, without cost, to a so-called vacated account. As it is today being tabled by the United Left Amendment, which says that these registration accounts should not be abolished, we note that if we keep these register accounts, they will continue to have these unmaterialised securities, but at the same time, many warn that they want to get rid of these intangibleised accounts for reasons, because they often lead them into a situation where they cannot apply social assistance precisely because of this. This is one of the reasons why we will not support the amendment of the United Left, but we agree with the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, which limits the costs that could be incurred by those who manage these intangibleised securities, and in particular the small value of these papers, it may be that these costs are significantly higher than the value of this intangibleised securities. Thus, this limit is 0.5 % per year from the base, which is the average value of the securities in this account, even in our opinion a reasonable limit, so that we do not burden so-called small shareholders disproportionately with other high equity values. Last but not least, as we can understand from the explanations and also from the warnings, the Securities Markets Agency also found that the prices of the members of the Central Depository Company for the management of accounts were substantially higher than those of the Central Depository Company. So it was also somehow obvious in this period of negotiation, for a coordinated approach and all of this had to be paid by the holder of the intangibleised securities. This amendment also makes this impossible, so that we support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u200	The word is by Luka Moon [[…]] Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the amendments of the United Left Group and of the non-aligned Members to Article 48. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group shall become irrelevant to this Article. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. It was 21 and 45. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 48. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you. Of course, we have stood for our amendment, which has fully resolved this problem, but given that it has not been adopted, we will, of course, support this Solomonic solution proposed by the SDS, so that we vote in the United Left "for".
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u202	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, chairman. The MP Group of the Modern Centre Party was satisfied with the explanation for the amendment tabled and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u204	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. First of all, I apologize to the person I promised her I wouldn't talk to again today. I am pleased that colleague Šircelj has said a wonderful word that the market does not work in several areas in Slovenia. We will vote in favour, and I hope that in the near future we will also touch the banking market, which also does not act as such. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-25-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u206	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote was 69 and against 4. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. It's 70 for the vote and four for the vote. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this working week has been extremely intense, so I thank you for your creative cooperation. I would also like to take this opportunity to apologize for some of my actions in the management of the sitting, especially after two days. In other words, one could say that one works is wrong, but certainly I would like to point out that any failures were not intended, even less planned. I promise I will try to improve myself in the future, and that is what I want for you. And a happy end of the week. I hereby adjourn the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday 29 September 2015 at 9 a.m.
