ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, mag. Tanja Cink, Mrs Klaudida Markež, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Benedict Kopmajer, mag. Ange Logar, Mr Marko Pogačnik, Mr Jožef Horvat, mag. Branko Grims, Mr. Franz Breznik, mag. Matthew Tonin from 15 to 19:00, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Janez Janša. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 30. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for an agreement on the programme of work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2015. In accordance with Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted the 2015 Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency to the National Assembly. In order to further explain the programme, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to the Director of the Energy Agency mag. Irene Praček.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! In all these years, the European Union has not yet been able to fully develop internal energy markets that would be fully competitive. Once such markets actually exist, citizens and businesses of the European Union will enjoy all the benefits of security of supply and also lower prices. In order to achieve this objective, it is essential to develop interconnections within the EU, to establish effective legislation and regulatory frameworks, to apply them fully in practice and to implement the Community competition rules consistently. To be able to respond successfully to the many challenges we face, the energy sector needs to be marketed. The predictable, efficient and functioning internal market in electricity and natural gas is essential for allowing the necessary long-term investments in energy, price competitiveness for consumers and achieving the European Union's environmental objectives. Almost a year ago, a new Energy Act was adopted in March 2014, which finally implemented the third package of EU energy directives in 2009. With the implementation of the third energy package into national law, the Agency has become an essential element of integration on the market. The Agency must play an important role in the future of the energy market and its development, in particular in the area of transforming the market into sustainable competitiveness, in market work and even more efficient regulation in regulated work, and in particular in the effective control of the energy sector. Energy has established market mechanisms for activities such as production and marketing, which will now need to be effectively monitored, while in the distribution and transfer of electricity, natural gas and remote heat as mandatory economic or collective public services, the way of operation should continue to be defined through regulatory procedures. The regulation of natural monopolies is to find an effective balance between preventing unjustified costs and promoting greater efficiency, all with a view to protecting the consumer and achieving the lowest possible price of service on the monopoly market. The role of the Agency is very complex in this regard. In our decisions, we must constantly weigh among the wishes, on the one hand, of consumers, customers who want acceptable prices and quality services, companies that want appropriate prices that will allow them to receive income in line with the level of investment, and a country that wants viable prices for the economy and, of course, reliable care. In addition, the Agency has a time of new important and major opportunities, as its role in the future extends to completely new areas, such as, for example, responsibility for security of natural gas supply in the Republic of Slovenia, market control, regulation of heat and so on, which is all presented in detail in the work programme you are accepting today. The path ahead of the Agency in the next period will certainly not be easy. It will take a lot of effort, a constant search for new, better solutions and a consistent use of all internal reserves to achieve the ambitious goals set by the Energy Law Agency. The past almost 15 years marked the agency's development intensity and growth in the regulatory area. The liberalisation of internal energy markets is closely linked to global developments. The instability of the financial markets recently caused by the global crisis has clouded the background of the long-term predictability on which regulatory practice has so far been built. The Agency will therefore need to strive for an even better regulatory practice in all its activities and to closely monitor and analyse developments in foreign markets and international regulation. The Agency's challenge will continue to ensure to Slovenian customers on the electricity market, natural gas and remote heat protection against the effects of an increasing global impact on the Slovenian market. It is important to be aware that consumers want a sense of confidence in the functioning of the energy market and therefore control over its operation will be an even more important and demanding requirement. The Agency entered the 15th year of operation, which shows that we are not unknown in the Slovenian energy space. It is true, however, that the new energy law has transferred the decision-making powers relating to the Agency's work programme and financial plan from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an important new stage of development after all these years. On behalf of the Energy Agency, I thank you for your constructiveness and understanding and for the re-examination of the work programme and the financial plan for 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u3	The work programme and the financial plan were considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the parent working body, which proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a decision on consent to the work programme and to the 2015 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at the 5th meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. 2. 2015 considered the work programme and the 2015 financial plan of the Energy Agency as the parent work body. 12. In 2014, the Energy Agency forwarded Article 399(5) of the Energy Act to the National Assembly. The Committee shall meet on 4. 2. The 2015 work programme and the 2015 financial plan of the Energy Agency have been discussed for the second time. For the first time, it was rejected, as was the case with the debate of Members, due to the excessive number of new jobs envisaged, the lack of a systematisation of new jobs and the lack of comparison of business balances of previous years. It has also been noted from the debate of Members that there is a desire for the Agency's operations in terms of the functioning of the entire public administration, which is in a somewhat more rational way. The Agency shall be held at 5 p.m. 12. 2014 submitted to the National Assembly the amended Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency, which the majority of the members of the Committee considered appropriate for adoption in the National Assembly. It follows from the report that the need to raise costs by around €160,000 is being reduced in order to reduce the estimated number of new staff by three jobs, as well as to reduce the costs of external services. Such measures will result in a smaller increase in the contribution to the average natural gas customer instead of the initial 70 cents per 50 cent per year. As already stated, the discussion of the majority of Members and Members expressed the opinion that the Agency, when supplementing the programme, took into account the comments made in the examination of the original document and thus made some progress in terms of cost rationalisation while maintaining the conditions for the effective performance of the Agency's tasks. Some of the discussers reiterated their view that there was an unusual provision in the Energy Act, which imposes the competence to approve the Agency's work programme and financial plan on the National Assembly and pointed out that all comparable institutions were given the consent of the Government to such documents. In their view, this method is more meaningful as the ministries have the expertise to monitor the work of an agency at all times and are more able and competent to define themselves in terms of its financial and human resources plan. Some discussers were also critical in the design of a revised financial plan and work programme, namely that it does not give a different forecast of the Agency's operations, that there is no clear picture of what the discharge should have been achieved with new jobs, that the Agency is not rational in ordering software, given the other European regulators, that it wants to hire new staff, while at the same time borrowing one of its own from ACER and that it is irrational in terms of rolling stock. Ms Duška Year, who represented the Agency on the Committee, replied, and after discussion, the members of the Committee adopted a decision on the content: the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on the agreement on the work programme and the financial plan of the Agency for Energy for 2015 of 4. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee adopted the proposal with 10 votes in favour and none against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič, SMC Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, again. As already mentioned, the National Assembly has already discussed the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy for the second time. In the SMC Group, when considering the first report, we pointed out that the Agency also needs to adapt its business to the general poor public financial situation of the country and that some of the items in the Agency’s work programme and the Agency’s financial plan for energy for 2015 show a slight overexpenditure in the Agency’s operations. It must be recognised that the scope of the work of the Energy Agency is wider after the adoption of the Energy Law and it is quite clear that there is a need to increase the number of employees, but some of the data of the Work Programme and the Financial Plan for Members are still somewhat unusual. For example, the purchase of cars was exposed, in 2009, 14 thousand 900 euros were spent, in 2010 46 thousand, 2012 39 thousand, purchase of hardware in 2009, spent 10,000 euros, in 2010 31 thousand euros, in 2012 together with the purchase of servers 50 thousand euros, in 2013 together with purchase of servers and disk systems 32 thousand euros. On the other hand, the figures used for the purchase of licensed and non-licensed software in 2009 amounted to over EUR 100 000, in 2010 57 000, 2012 55 000, 2013 160 000. The Agency's work programme and the Agency's financial plan is the Agency's first such document, dealt with by the National Assembly under the amended energy law and the debate on whether Members are competent to judge and decide on a document such as a financial plan. These concerns will certainly also arise in the future, but, on the other hand, the National Assembly is not the Court of Auditors, nor has it been defined on these concerns, nor has it been the Members, nor has it been the Committee itself, whether or not it was prudent to do business. Other authorities are responsible for this. However, we have also taken the view in the Common SMC of the Member States that the financial plan and the work programme, as it has been so far, is suitable for adoption. So we had no doubts about the existing powers of the National Assembly, so that when it was rationalised, we would accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u7	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! First, let me go back to the Energy Act that was passed last year. This implies that Members or the National Assembly shall approve and adopt the Agency's work programme and financial plan for each of the following years. This is a unique case in Slovenia. In addition, this energy law gives the Agency an extremely large independent power, which will be extremely difficult to control. Nor does the Ministry of State have any control over the agency or any other jurisdiction. The programme of work in the first attempt was not supported by the coalition and was not adopted. The program is now being completed on the table. To summarize briefly, it is essential to reduce the number of new jobs expected from 15 to 12. Now, as with this amendment, the new programme is good, even in the light of the coalition's comments, and it has also received support from the Committee on Infrastructure and Space. But I am sure that no Member in this Chamber knows how many new jobs will require the new tasks imposed on the Agency by the new energy law. Not one. Nor does anyone in this Chamber know how many of these tasks the Agency will be able to manage with a reduced estimated number of employees. No one knows. So much for the behaviour and expertise of the Members you have put into the Energy Act that we are now Members of the Agency's business plan. So much for this expertise. We do not make a decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party and therefore point out the necessity of amending the Energy Act. It is not the National Assembly and we are not Members who decide on the business, the expertise of the Energy Agency. In the light of the above, and because we are deciding on a professional basis in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and because we are aware of the Agency's business and economic responsibility, we will not oppose this programme of the Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u10	Honourable President, Honourable Director of the Agency, Dear Fellows and Fellows! For the second time, the Energy Agency has submitted a programme for 2015. We rejected the first version of the document in the context of the consideration at the home work body and later in the plenary session of the National Assembly, because of the projected increase in the number of new jobs and the under-defined staffing plan. This time, however, the DeSUS Group estimates that it contains solutions that take the utmost account of our comments and requests when considering the new version of the programme. The new proposal thus reduces the cost needed by around €160,000, which has been achieved by reducing the required staffing for three jobs and reducing external services. This will also result in a slightly smaller increase in the contribution to the average natural gas customer, instead of the proposed 70 cents per 50 cent per year. The programme further supports the need for additional employment and shows the indicative wage classes and further explains the envisaged resources for software, the volume of external services required, and the Agency’s revenue and expenditure balance over the past four years. The effects of the Agency's operation on the energy market and the impact of their operation on users are also further illustrated. In the Desus Group, we estimate that despite the planned number of jobs, the Agency has maintained the conditions for the effective management of the Agency's tasks. Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the decision on agreement to the Agency's work programme and financial plan for 2015 of 4. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u12	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Energy Act has brought about a significant increase in the role of the national regulatory authority, which directs and supervises energy operators in the field of electricity and natural gas and manages the law-specific tasks of regulating energy operators in the field of heat and other energy. The Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Energy, as the regulatory authority, has a strengthened independent role in particular in relation to the Government, as it exercises new supervision of its work by the National Assembly, which also gives its consent to the work programme and to the Agency's financial plan. The Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Energy has already submitted a proposal for a work programme and a financial plan for 2015, which was not adopted by the competent Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space last autumn. Members and Members of Parliament made quite a few comments at the meeting of the home working body on that document. In particular, we wanted to define more precisely the objectives and effects pursued by the Agency in its activities and to make its work priorities clearer in 2015. This will make it easier for the National Assembly to assess within a year how the Agency worked successfully this year. In the debate so far, we have highlighted our expectations that it is most important for the Agency to carry out the tasks and powers of the regulator, which will make an important contribution to supporting competition on the market of quality electricity, heat, gas and fuel providers to end-users, so that they will pay as low a price as possible. In addition to the issuance of general acts and the consent to acts by GJS operators, it is essential to establish control over the functioning of the market and the control of legality. EU rules also extend the tasks of the regulatory authority to the energy market. The key objectives of the Agency are: cost-effective promotion of secure, reliable and efficient transmission and distribution systems for electricity and natural gas and the achievement of the greatest benefit for consumers by ensuring the effective functioning of the market and the competitiveness of the conditions in this market. In addition, the report presents the economic effects of the Agency's operation. Let me just point out some. By monitoring the operations of operators, the Agency ensured during the period 2010-2013 that EUR 120 million of revenue generated by Eles from auctions for the allocation of cross-border transmission capacity was used to reduce network tariffs. On the basis of established regulation with quality of supply in the 2011-2012 regulatory period, the Agency has reduced the eligible costs of the system operator by around EUR 0,5 million in the distribution network in these years due to non-compliance with minimum power continuity standards. At the beginning of 2012, the competent ministry noted the inadequacy of the defined reference costs of electricity production affecting the level of support for electricity generation from renewable sources mainly in solar power plants and biogas plants. The Authority prepared an indicative calculation of the cost of electricity production in solar power plants based on the actual investment values of production plants, which showed an additional requirement to reduce the reference costs of production of this energy, which is the basis for determining the support. Thus, on a proposal from the Agency, the Ministry further reduced the electricity support produced in solar power plants. The calculated savings thus amount to €1.4 million savings in annual payments or around €20 million over the whole period of inclusion in the support scheme. And if, in the re-negotiated debate on the working body, the debate was mainly on the planned new jobs, the Social Democrats believe that the planned, now rationalised, jobs are justified by the new tasks. In view of the annual allocation of € 140 to 150 million to recipients under the support scheme, i.e. until the end of the scheme of around €1.8 billion, and the Agency's observation of the derogations in individual recipients, it is planning to tighter controls in this area in 2015. Remember, the state of energy report 2013 states that the contributions needed to support the production of electricity in a naturally friendly manner, with an increase of approximately 300%, so to speak, flew into the sky. This, of course, increased the final price of electricity. The Agency has already identified irregularities. The Authority is of the opinion that, through intensive controls and measures taken in cases of deviations from the conditions laid down for the award of declarations or support, it could save between 0.3% and 2% of the funds, i.e. between 0.5 and 2.8 million euros. The Agency considers that this could be ensured through intensive control of the recipients. The Social Democrats will agree on the work programme and the Agency's 2015 financial plan. We expect the Agency, as pointed out at the outset, to exercise the powers of the regulator and the supervisor by paying as low a price as possible to end-users for reliable supply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u13	The text is given by the United Left Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good morning! Good day to some. Yesterday's tolerant non-homophobic debate has obviously gathered us a lot of energy, so we are only 49 Members and Members of Parliament, and of course there is no excuse to discuss this important topic. Just because I don't have a chicken in front of me doesn't mean we don't work on professional grounds in the United Left. We've got a big head, a good CPU, and we've got a lot of memory. I hope that other parties, not just the coalition, the United Left and the SDS, operate on some professional foundations. Of course, the National Assembly is not an expert body. The National Assembly is the cut-off of citizens and citizens who have the right to vote. I hope, even with empathy for those who don't have it yet, for those who can't have them for other reasons, including deleted ones. If we go to the very topic of item 1 of the agenda, history has been given as well as, say, in particular, Mrs Katič in front of me, who is from one other energy lobby, has also shown in a very plastic way why we need this regulator. Renewable energy sources are such a problem that we must also focus on. I kind of agree with her here. The Energy Act is one of the thicker laws, one of the major spies, and I have examined it in detail, which imposes a whole range of tasks on the Agency, including the extension to the field of heat. People – yesterday we talked a lot about natural laws – no, we are an animal species that says for itself that it is twice intelligent. We're very neothentic and entropical beings. We're very poor at managing our energy. This is also why this regulatory authority is very important and I am also pleased that it is in Maribor, but not in Ljubljana, especially because of the exhaustion of Drava power plants. If I go to a single report, it was very clear that we were not satisfied with the first plan, it was complemented. As a representative of the United Left, I was very skeptical on the Committee at that time as the Agency expands its tasks by reducing the human resources development involved. We know that the energy sector is also fully combined with the oligopolly monopolistic positions at the heating level. I don't have any crazy choice there in Maribor who's gonna warm me up in our neighborhood or a new MP who's in blue outfit today. And that's why it's very important. Of course, we all want to pay as little as possible for energy. Of course, I would like and the United Left to be more energy efficient than we are. And here, somehow, Slovenia is far behind from some European parameters, on average and so on. That is also why I am going to Austria next week to learn about how the smaller congregations there are self - care. We in the United Left will, in fact, be absolved until this conclusion. Why? It is now somehow forgotten that if we went to watch a magnetogram, there was an attack at this second reading, some blast by Mrs Praček by one of the SMC Members, because we just got that the agency was working badly. This was partly reflected in the report by Mr Zorčič. But, you know, there's something here to turn around in tens of thousands of euros that we don't really know why, if you want, these cars need, why this software is needed, and so on, it's kind of irresponsible. If SMC thinks of tearing down some actors in certain agencies and setting up its own – O.K. The leader of the parliamentary group is moving a little. We could go take a look at the magnetogram. I'm not going to mention the Member of Parliament who said that somehow. He must have been ordered to do that. I will not support such an old-new policy and neither will the United Left. However, I hope that future reports of this kind and these agencies and these analyses will be strengthened, both in time verticals and in content, why there are actually some items. However, I hope that the Agency will carry out its task successfully with this Director or with any other person in favour of all citizens and citizens who often look at those positions and see those items more as poetry in prose than some serious incision. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u15	I normally do not prejudice the views of the groups of Members, but I want the views of the groups of Members to be really the views of the groups of Members, and not so much the accountability of others, but that they relate to what we have on the agenda, but not to those things which, in fact, cannot be defended because of the procurator at that time. Next is the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for her Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I've got it written down, buddy Duck. The Energy Agency, as the national energy regulator in the energy market, is an important member of the energy law enforcement chain. It is a legal person who, in his field of independence, independently of market interests, performs the tasks of the new energy law. The fact is that the Energy Act redefines the competence of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to agree on the Agency's work programme and financial plan, so that Members, instead of the Government or the competent ministry, take a large part of the responsibility for the Agency's work. And that is precisely why this document is for Members to be re-examined at the meeting of the National Assembly. The proposal submitted by the Agency to us in December last year did not reflect its actual needs, both financially and not human resources. We therefore have a complementary proposal for a work programme with a financial plan for 2015, which, compared to the previous proposal, reduces costs by around €160,000 by reducing the projected new jobs from 15 to 12 and also by reducing external services. This is very important for household consumers of natural gas, because this means instead of the 70 cents per year, 50 cents per year. Therefore, 2015 will be very difficult for the Energy Agency. Fully new tasks require ensuring security of natural gas supply, regulation of heat and other energy gases, certification of system operators' investment plans and control of the legality of the work of energy operators and care for energy consumers. There are also increasing international obligations at European Union level, but in the New Slovenia Group we ask ourselves whether it is really necessary to employ 12 new workers to carry out these tasks. In addition to the current 46 employees, there will be no mistake. This is now much easier for the Agency to do so because it is no longer included in the government's staffing plan, which does not allow additional employment. Even though it is a body which must be politically and financially independent as regulator and therefore not financed from the State budget, we cannot go beyond the fact that it is Members who must give their consent to the work programme and the financial plan and thus take responsibility for the work of the Agency. In doing so, Christian Democrats continue to point out the meaning of paragraph 5 of the Article 399 of the Energy Law, which requires the National Assembly to give its consent to the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy. This is a complete nonsense because the Government gives all comparable institutions consent to such documents. So why this exception? Why does the government no longer give consent, as was its jurisdiction before the adoption of the new energy law? The fact is that it is precisely this change that has caused today, 4 March, I am speaking on 4 March, Members to give their consent to the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2015. Three months or two full months have passed since this agency was already in business. So the Energy Agency is doing almost two and a half months' work without an adequate legal basis. However, this may also be good, as the Agency will reduce the planned increase in operating costs and employ fewer workers. In view of the draft Decision on consent to the work programme and the 2015 Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy, we will not support it, nor will we oppose it. Comrade Duck, sometimes it's nice to have written that you don't just talk nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u17	This comment is also not part of the report, but is part of the debate. But anyway, we're done presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the work programme and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2015, we will decide today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, this is the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of First Instance. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u18	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before you is the first piece of law in the field of justice to be dealt with today and tomorrow, adopted by the Government at its 13th regular session. Let me begin by stressing that this is not a mini judicial reform, it is not a swift judicial reform. That's not what I as Justice Minister or the government have ever said, that's something that's been caught up in the media. We argue, however, that this is a first step towards ensuring more transparent, responsible and effective justice. Let's go in one order. It is a matter of amending the law, which has more than 100 articles, that we amend 9 articles. First, on strengthening the responsibility of Slovenian judges and judges. The law introduces the implementation of the GRECA recommendations by which the judiciary will adopt an ethical code and a policy to address corruption risks, and a mechanism for transparent decision-making of possible infringements will have to be established within the Court of Justice. I have no doubt that today, as we have heard on the committees, we will hear many words about GRECU — obligations or non-binding recommendations. So very briefly. In 2012, GRECO, which is an important and respected institution within the framework of the Council of Europe and which Slovenia committed itself to by signing international conventions, carried out an evaluation of the Republic of Slovenia, its judicial system, the criminal risk prosecution system. It was not an evaluation by phantom bureaucrats from Strasbourg or Brussels. This evaluation was carried out by fellow judges, judges, prosecutors from other European countries. In doing so, they spoke to all stakeholders in the Republic of Slovenia and adopted recommendations which the Republic of Slovenia unfortunately put in a drawer or ignored for two and a half years. In December 2014, last year GRECO adopted a report on Slovenia's progress or failure in this area and noted that Slovenia's progress in this area is completely unsatisfactory. That is why we have decided to bring this matter to Parliament after a reduced procedure. By the way, similar recommendations have been received by other countries and have already been implemented: the Netherlands, Denmark, Slovakia, Poland and Croatia. Let's go to efficiency, now I'm talking about responsibility. The judicial network in the Republic of Slovenia is inoptimal. The actual and local distinction between the district and district courts brings anomalies, causing different burdens on individual courts. It is common knowledge that, of course, the judicial branch of power also stresses that some courts are extremely burdened, while others tend to take care of the writings. The mobility of judges has been enabled in the past only from the top down under very restrictive conditions in the already existing law from the bottom up, from the district to the district. The current law has made this possible, but in particular an impractical and impractical way in practice, particularly with regard to the court, such as the District, District and District Court in Ljubljana. We therefore introduce the possibility, in cooperation with the Presidents of the District Courts, of temporary transition from the District Courts. This gives the President of the Districts a tool and thus a responsibility to provide more efficient and evenly distributed work in their district. This will also help to resolve matters more quickly. The next step is likely to be the establishment of a single first-degree court, but this requires a long debate, a regular procedure and a large professional consensus. Last. Transparency, the functioning of judicial interpreters, evaluators and experts, which have liberalised and brought a number of anomalies in recent years. The number of experts has increased tremendously and their control has not been adequate. In the interest of time, because there will be an opportunity to debate, because I will be able to comment in the debate itself, there will be something in the end. I have no doubt that this and the next step that we will discuss today and tomorrow will be that these laws are controversial, as I have been a controversial Minister of Justice these days and as controversial as justice alone. It is legitimate to say that these are not sufficient and complete solutions to problems. My dears, we accepted them at the government in November when we were less than three months in government. It may be a controversial minister who brought this to your bench, it may be controversial justice, but today you are not voting on the first and second. You are voting on whether to support these three changes, which are not revolutionary, but in the opinion of the Government and in the opinion of respected and respected international institutions, are a condition for steps in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u19	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u20	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is at its 6th session. 2. 2015 and 1st beyond 12. 2. In 2015, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure, also confirmed by the summary procedure of the National Assembly. In the introductory explanation of the articles, the Minister of Justice explained that the key solutions to the proposed law are to strengthen ethics and integrity and to eliminate and manage corruption risks in the judiciary on the basis of GRECA's explicit recommendations, to allocate district judges to the District Court with an annual schedule of judges, to regulate the scope of the activities of judicial experts, valuers and interpreters, to transfer competences to determine the more detailed form and content of individual court records, directories, auxiliary books and typified forms to the Supreme Court. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was presented to the Committee, where the representative gave an explanation for the written opinion of the Service and highlighted the following. It noted that it is a fundamental constitutional rule that judges are bound by the Constitution and the law in the exercise of judicial function, that the Code of Judicial Ethics adopted by the Slovenian Judicial Society already exists and therefore the proposed solutions lead to the existence of two ethical codes, to non-systematicity, to legal imprudentity, to the irregularity of the relationship between the Ethics and Integrity Commission and the Supreme Court, on the one hand, and to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Laws on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption on the other hand, to have a strong impact on the general system of the organisation and jurisdiction of the judiciary and on the position of the judge in Article 3 and 5. It further explained with regard to the regulation of the situation of judicial experts and evaluators and interpreters that the proposal for a law provides for the restriction of the use of this status in any other proceedings other than judicial or administrative proceedings. The representative of the Council of State presented a written opinion in which the National Council of State Commission supports the proposed law, but taking into account all comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of Justice and other stakeholders. The President of the Council of Justice stressed that the Council of Justice agrees with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and stressed that the Code already exists and that the problem of limited impact on social membership is also adequately addressed. The Council of Justice also supports the idea of resolving or extending the possibility of assigning district judges to district courts. A representative of the Supreme Court also took part in the debate, which stressed that the Supreme Court largely agrees with the comments and also highlighted the issue of the introduction of new powers and tasks to the Supreme Court without providing the relevant resources. With regard to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 7, which provides that the interpreters may give translations to the party for the exercise of their rights, the representative of the Association of Forensic Experts and Valuators for the Construction Expert said that the provision of the amendment does not eliminate the issue, but unconstitutionally distinguishes between the judicial expert and the judicial assessors in relation to the judicial interpreters. On the contrary, the representatives of the Association of Translators and Court Interpreters of Slovenia expressed support for the amendment and for the separate treatment of translators and court interpreters from other stakeholders. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the 2014 Committee, who welcomed the Ministry's proposal as a small step towards ensuring greater public and accountability and transparency in the judiciary, highlighting some shortcomings. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their dissatisfaction with the consideration of the proposal following a reduced procedure. They drew attention to the number and weight of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and other stakeholders and expressed opposition to the proposed solutions. On the other hand, the members and members of the Committee also felt that the proposed amendment was necessary and welcome and that it was the first right step towards greater transparency and efficiency of the judicial system and greater legal certainty. In their view, the adoption of the Code of Judicial Ethics, the regulation of the scope of action of judicial experts, valuers and interpreters and other solutions to the proposed law will also help. Following the discussion, the Committee continued its consideration at the 1st meeting of 6th meeting. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Following the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 1 and Article 2. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Articles 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 12 were then addressed and adopted. However, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the ZaAB Group of Ambassadors to 7, the SDS Group of Ambassadors to Articles 1, 5, 7 and 10 and the SMC, Desus and SD Group of Ambassadors. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Article 1(2) [[…]] The amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 2, 4, 6, 8 and 11 have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and supported all the articles of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u21	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for your floor. We accept amendments and additions to the Law on Courts following a reduced procedure in order to follow the recommendations of GRECA. Ethics and integrity should be strengthened by establishing a code of judicial ethics. To this end, more detailed criteria should be adopted for the selection and evaluation of judges by the Council of Justice and the establishment of an Ethics and Integrity Commission. Your Honor! Indisputably, reforms in the field of justice are needed, but those that will finally put justice in Slovenia in the place to which it belongs. This means, to European standards, to European starting points, to European ethical standards, to European expertise, to average European spending, to the average number of European judges. This is what we need in this country. We need such changes following an evaluation by the European Commission, which points out that access to an effective and fair justice system is one of the rights at the heart of European democracies. Slovenia has one of the lowest levels of perceived independence of the judiciary. It is also worth stressing that the level of confidence in the judiciary is at the lowest level. The fact is that there is a need to establish accountability in the judiciary. There are also measures that will establish de facto impartiality and the appearance of impartiality in the judiciary. The proposed amendments required by the Minister after a reduced procedure will also not eliminate the abuse of the position in court. Unfortunately, government proposals go in the wrong direction or are being reintroduced into a comprehensive state of justice. We will not support the proposal because of the procedure itself. We are considering the proposal following a reduced procedure. This was also highlighted in its opinion by the Council of Justice and other interested professional associations. In doing so, we must also point out that a number of substantive comments have been made on the proposed amendments to the law by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which have not been taken into account in most cases. In view of all the above, and as I have already said before, we will not support the proposed amendment to the Law on Courts in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. However, we will certainly closely monitor the implementation of the Law on Courts, especially in terms of ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. Last but not least, Your Honor, because the Justice Department is headed by the Minister of Mag. Goran Klemenčič, who has repeatedly violated the laws and even the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in his work.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear President, respectable and respected! The bill follows four main objectives. I'm only going to identify myself with some. It is very important that, according to our assessment, the fact that I would like to draw particular attention to is that this amendment of the Law on Courts strengthens the responsibility of judges and judges. One of the reasons why we are considering today the amendment of the Law on Courts is the implementation of the recommendations of the Group of States against Corruption – GRECO, as in some of the other laws in this package, which we will be considering these days. Slovenia joined this group in 1999 and in the context of the fourth assessment of countries including Slovenia, three sectors were reviewed in terms of integrity standards. A group of judges was also assessed among them. Thus, the recommendations relating to the Law on Courts propose in particular the establishment of clear standards or the establishment of a code of conduct that would apply to all judges. We already have a code of judicial ethics issued by the Slovenian judiciary, but the problem is that this code binds only judges who are members of this society. Therefore, it will be the task of the Council of Justice to adopt a code of judicial ethics that will apply to all judges. The new Council of Justice also requires the adoption of criteria for the selection of candidates for judges and criteria for the quality of their work. The establishment of a commission for this area is also envisaged for advice on the issue of judicial ethics and integrity. The next objective, pursued by the new Law on Courts, is to regulate the area of judicial experts, value holders and interpreters. A number of opinions, comments and criticisms have arrived with regard to the amendment of the provision relating to persons performing such tasks. This is because the novel has originally foreseen that a person may refer to his or her status only through judicial or administrative proceedings, which, of course, greatly strengthens the scope of these groups' activities under the applicable provision of Article 85 of the Law on Courts. This amendment was justified by reference to the Court of Auditors’ audit report of March of the previous year. It notes the ineffective operation of the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration in the exercise of control over the work of judicial assessors who assess the value of out-of-court property. On this basis, the Court of Auditors requested the Ministry, inter alia, to examine the appropriateness of the Law on Courts with regard to this regime. Thus, the Ministry found that the most appropriate solution is to restrict work of these categories only to proceedings before the courts and administrative authorities, since the Ministry is unable to provide sufficient and adequate control over their work carried out on the market or on the basis of other regulations. The proposal was thus intended to limit the supervision and thus the responsibility of the Ministry to administrative and judicial proceedings. On the basis of all the comments, Members of the coalition's parliamentary groups considered that this provision should be amended, so we tabled an amendment that was voted on the Committee and reached a compromise. Thus, according to the new judicial evaluators and experts, they will also be able to refer to their status in cases where the other law and regulation provide for their operation, while the judicial interpreters may also refer to their status in cases where they give interpretations and translations at the request of the party for the exercise of their rights. In the Desus Group, we agree with this arrangement and believe that, according to the nature of the work of these categories, and also under the provisions of other laws, this regulation is most appropriate. In the Desus Group we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u26	Nicely greeted! Today we continue the 5th regular meeting of the National Assembly with a point which we devoted to the work of the mother body for quite a number of hours. Something at the expense of content and something at the expense of resentment from the past. From the mere announcement of time, we believe that this debate in plenary will also be more interesting. For we are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts and we are considering it in a reduced procedure. The dissatisfaction expressed in the handling process itself has already been said on the Committee. We Social Democrats, too, have been very reserved for the consideration of all proposed laws by the Ministry of Justice following a reduced procedure. We also note from the Social Democrats that we have not obtained from the consideration of the proposal following a reduced process of essential time for the adoption of the law. However, we have received a lot of negative responses from different professional associations not only to the type of procedure, but also to the content of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law, as well as to the involvement in the preparation of these. In addition to the implementation of the GRECA recommendations concerning the establishment of business and ethical codes, the powers to determine the more detailed form and content of individual court records, directories, auxiliary books and typified forms of the Supreme Court are transferred to district courts with an annual schedule of judges, and the area of judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters is regulated. The experts, interpreters and valuers were those who pointed out a lack of involvement in the regulation of this area. We believe that the expertise of judicial experts and evaluators is important not only in judicial proceedings, administrative proceedings, but also in settlement, mediation and other proceedings outside the courts. As has been pointed out in the Committee, experts and evaluators can make a successful contribution to the conclusion of the proceedings by not having individual litigation at all, which is very important for the work and unloading of judges and experts. Nor is it possible to ignore the comments made by the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court, from which we perceive that certain shortcomings still exist with the proposed amendment to the law. Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts in spite of everything. Individual comments and shortcomings have only been corrected by the amendments adopted on the home working body. We will also support the amendment of the coalition to Article 2. When the proposal is concluded, however, they would only point to the following. New interventions are announced in the Law on Courts. All those who could help improve the quality of regulations should be included in the preparation of legal solutions alone, while also limiting the introduction of partial interests into legislation and thus helping to address corruption risks. Social Democrats are aware that there will never be a 100 per cent consensus of all stakeholders. However, the changes should be considered, rather harmonised and should be dealt with on a regular basis. With constant changes and additions, we interfere with the basic processes of the work of judges and professional staff. Last but not least, the whole court.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u27	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u28	President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! "Anyway, here is my commitment that laws will be substantially more transparent in the sense of the professional public and that everything concerning the judiciary and the prosecution, as far as I am concerned, will be influenced here, and will also be asked for the opinion of the people of production, it is said, in their own words." These are the words of the Minister when he presented himself to the Committee on Justice before he became Minister of Justice. This commitment has not been realized by the Minister once before. Since taking office as minister, the legislative procedure has put together six proposals to deal with today and tomorrow. One on emergency and five on short notice. The same has happened at all committee meetings where these laws have been dealt with. At the meeting almost as many representatives of the professional public were present as Members, and at the hearing of the proposals they repeated the same words: the proposal was not in line with the professional public and the professional public had no opportunity to participate in its preparation. At least as many pages as the text of the law had an opinion on all proposals. However, the amendments to individual proposals were so large that the coalition she had tabled barely followed. To the extent that the Government respects the resolution on regulatory activities and transparently harmonised legislation, it is best to see the number of violations of this resolution regularly published by the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. From 18 September 2014 until today, the Government violated the resolution 158 times from the total 234 proposals it has drawn up. What is the percentage of violations at the Ministry of Justice? It's an incredible 93%. Thus, the Ministry has little excitement for the professional and interested public. The Minister has therefore forgotten his commitment very quickly, and the result of such action is as follows. The text of the law covers 13 articles written on the right four pages. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service covers seven pages. We received 11 documents with comments from the professional public and jointly addressed 20 amendments tabled. And what solution must be so urgent and accepted as soon as possible that there is no time for professional participation? The 2012 GRECA recommendations should be implemented. Therefore, three years old recommendations on which the Slovenian authorities should submit a report on the measures by 30 April 2014. And what's the most ironic about this? In these same recommendations, GRECO warns us about the excessive use of rapid procedures that prevent the professional public from engaging directly and believe that the authorities could monitor the use of a rapid procedure to ensure its non-abuse. Let him who can understand. In the United Left, which is adopted in this way, of course, we cannot support. We support solutions relating to the introduction of the Code of Judicial Ethics, to establish more precise criteria for the selection of candidates for judges, and we also support the establishment of an Ethics and Integrity Commission. However, we cannot support the solution in the field of judicial experts and valuers, for which even the Legal and Legislative Service warns that they are constitutionally controversial, and we have even received the legal opinion of the Constitutional Law Institute, which also shows that the proposed solution is inappropriate. It should also be pointed out that the solution to the dispute is proposed because the exercise of control over the work of judicial assessors and experts would be conditional on the use of certain financial and human resources that the Ministry currently does not have. The savings spinner is therefore continuing. It would be high time for the Minister to find that his arrogance would not restore confidence in the rule of law to citizens and citizens, nor would it solve the problems that the judiciary faces. Everything he's done in six months has a reverse effect, and unfortunately in the United Left we can't support the hands-on and reckless solutions, which are the main reason for most of the savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u29	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members – the Croatian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u30	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished President, distinguished Minister! Let me start by saying that in Novi Slovenija we expected reform measures in the area of justice. However, the Ministry or Government brought only minor amendments to the existing legislation to the National Assembly. Reforms are urgently needed in our judiciary, as all stakeholders, in particular the economy and the professional and lay-off public, make this clear. Each government, if indeed decided to reform, shall carry out these measures in the first year of the mandate when it is ready for the biggest changes. In this respect, the proposed legislative changes for us in New Slovenia are a great disappointment. We've been critical until we've been in court in recent years. The judicial functions shall be held by candidates who do not have the appropriate professional and life experience to perform this function. The Council of Justice has so far not established any pre-known criteria for the selection of candidates in the recruitment process. The current novelties of laws, the Law of Courts and the Law on Judicial Service eliminate this flaw. However, we wonder whether the Council of Justice will actually take into account the criteria laid down by law for the selection of candidates for judges when choosing candidates. We fear that these legal provisions will again be one in a series of legal provisions that remain a dead letter on paper. We have granted important powers to the Council of Justice, but at the same time we have not established mechanisms of responsibility, I stress, responsibilities. So it's their responsibility to decide. Each allocated right must also bring responsibility with it, otherwise we are only opening the door further to new corruption risks. We have established a system of responsibility for working at the lowest levels of work, but we have not been able to establish any normative framework for responsibility for work and voice in the highest functions, including functions in all judicial bodies. The decision of the Council of Justice must be transparent and accessible to the public. Their decisions must be clear and detailed. Each member of the Council of Justice shall bear full responsibility for each vote in each particular case. Responsibility must also be established for the work of judicial assessors and experts, where supervision of their work is virtually lacking. This area needs systemic changes, from the process of appointment, education, knowledge verification and resolution itself. Open and unresolved, however, remains the problem of distribution of work or judicial records in the first-degree courts. The writings shall circulate from one court to another in contravention of the substantive provisions on local jurisdiction, without the parties being informed at least that their file is allocated to a third court. We are wondering how such matters will stop the assessment of respect for local competences. Such solutions do not only constitute infringements of legislation but also reduce the transparency and traceability of the work of judges. Instead of circulating the files, the Court of First Instance should establish a system of circulation of judges. However, it is essential to also regulate the relevant status of the single Court of First Instance and to establish an amended network of courts. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats for Amendments and Complementation of the Law on Courts – we will not support the changes made by the law, otherwise, represent some minor improvements, but do not bring those necessary and expected solutions that would actually serve as a basis for the effective functioning of the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u31	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u32	Nice hello to you all! Today is the day when the Minister of Justice will present his package of legislative changes, which relies mainly on courts, justice and several others. We have before us the first law, which is in the bouquet of these rapid changes decided by the Minister, probably due primarily to its explanation that it is a matter of less difficult changes. However, if we take a close look at it, we see in the first law that it is indeed a matter of certain changes that are good and wise to be aligned in the first place with the profession that really concerns it most. It is particularly strange that the Minister of Justice is the one who in some way would have justified and wished to have good relations, but not immediately at the beginning of the cut and to know clearly what his way of working in this mandate would be with the people or with the profession for which he is also in charge. Well, it's just that everyone decides their own way of working and we have to adapt and prepare for it. The law under consideration has four essential elements of change. It is the implementation of the GRECO recommendations, the regulation of the field of judicial experts, assessors and interpreters, the delegation of powers to determine the more detailed form and content of individual court records and directories, auxiliary books and typified forms to the Supreme Court, the extension of the possibility of deploying district judges to district courts with an annual schedule of judges. She didn't compliment any of the professions. Moreover, in the stage of the reduced procedure, we have already experienced changes or amendments in the regulation of judicial experts, assessors and interpreters, where it was more than clear that there were two different concepts in the package, which are being treated in the same way. I am particularly disappointed because the Ministry has decided – there were two options, that is, to increase control in some way – which was also the direction and recommendation of the Court of Auditors. The Ministry of Justice has decided on a simpler path, which is that it simply does not deal with it anymore, and makes a very clear distinction between those who have the possibility of being called judicial or judicial experts and evaluators, given that the amendment is expected to be adopted, the interpreters are excluded, and those who do so commercially and will later not be able to do so in court. I think it's wrong. It's mainly because it's really a shift and a confession that you're incapable of doing something. I am sure that the well-established procedure has shown certain results. Finally, the debate on the Committee has shown that the decision was premature, too soon, and a different solution could be found. I'm sure it's not that much of a cost, but it's important from the point of view of organisation, how you approach things. Perhaps the minister thought that he would solve the problem with one stroke and then take it more seriously by giving a clear message of what he had to do with the matter. Oh, yeah. However, it remained a topic that was more than clear both on the Committee and in the public media that it was not harmonised with the expertise. That is why, of course, we also propose to the Minister that these issues be addressed more seriously and more thoroughly in the future. In the Alliance, we will not support these amendments because we do not want to participate in such a way of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u33	Mr Igor Zorčič, SMC Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished ministers, ministers! In order to apply the rule of law, the coalition parties have committed themselves, inter alia, to adopting a set of measures to curb corruption risks in justice and to increase the effectiveness of justice. At this meeting of the National Assembly, we have before us the first set of amendments to the laws which are intended for these coalition commitments. Today, specifically, the Law on Courts. The amendment of the Law on Courts is therefore the first step towards strengthening ethics and integrity and limiting corruption risks in the judiciary, as it provides for the establishment of a Code of Judicial Ethics, the adoption of more detailed criteria for the selection and evaluation of judges by the Council of Justice and the establishment of an Ethics and Integrity Commission. In the SMC, we estimate that the solutions proposed by the Government, supplemented by the amendments of the coalition, are necessary and that they will also be properly manifested in the coming years in the form of an increase in confidence in the judiciary. The government has relied on or implemented GRECA recommendations in this part of the proposed solutions, which we welcome in the SMC. The provision has raised certain concerns about the relationship between the ethical code and disciplinary infringements under the Judicial Service Act, which has led, as already stated, to the adoption by the coalition parties of an amendment or proposed amendment that will specifically define these relations in the amended article, thus eliminating these concerns after the assessment of the SMC. The Courts Act further regulates the possibility of deploying district judges from district courts to district courts in order to improve the depreciation of the issue of unequal burden of courts. In the SMC, we also support the proposed regulation in this part, as this introduces a new instrument for greater flexibility in the organisation of the work of the courts in order to deploy judges with an annual schedule within the District Court when the President of the Court considers it necessary. The Party shall also support the proposed solutions regarding the work and status of judicial experts. In the legislative process so far, these solutions have come across a strong response from the associations of experts and judicial interpreters. As a consequence, the coalition's parties are also these solutions, which have been proposed by the Government, the Admirals and we estimate that they are appropriate together with the amendments and follow what is actually the core of the Court's audit report, which draws attention to the work of judicial experts in the work where out-of-court legal relations are regulated. The work of experts is important not only for the work of the courts but also for the regulation of other out-of-court legal relations. And it is in this part that the Court of Auditors has identified a sort of black fox where the control or supervision of the Ministry is too small and the solutions proposed in the amendment of the law actually respond to such a situation. We estimate in the SMC that such a solution is appropriate. With regard to the evidence of a reduced procedure, however, in the SMC we follow the Government's view that it is actually a smaller number of articles that are changing. True, they are important and, of course, probably also the other solutions that we adopt in the framework of the law in the National Assembly. Another option, says some regular procedures, of course, according to parliamentary practice, is that solutions are too slow, that they do not go into reform, in short, in the domestic sense, whatever is done, there is always something wrong. As has already been said, it is about changing a smaller number of articles. The public concerned have been identified and we will support the amendment of the law in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Desus Group we do not support this amendment and I will explain our position with the following. The annual reports on the functioning of Courts 60.a and 60.b already cover an analysis of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the work of the Judges, which may also indirectly expose the finding of human rights violations in judicial proceedings. The annual report shall be sent by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of Justice, which shall also be addressed at its meeting and to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, monitoring, identification and analysis of human rights violations has been sufficiently regulated on a systemic and general level. Notwithstanding the existing system of reporting on the functioning of the courts, there are also other institutions which, on an individual and concrete level, ensure respect for human rights in judicial proceedings or the exercise of judicial responsibility: assessment of the judicial service, disciplinary procedure, discharge of the judge, special offences of illegal bias and unfair trial, etc. The central staff records of judges shall also contain data covering possible violations of human rights and freedoms. In particular, it may be possible to provide information on cases that have been resolved or resolved by a judge and in which the European Court of Human Rights definitively decided that the right or freedom of the party has been violated by the conduct of the judge or that a settlement has been concluded in the proceedings before that court, the indication of the judge of the case, the legal basis which has been violated, the indication of the point or points of the judgment on which the court of the Republic of Slovenia has been found to have infringed the legal basis. The scope of finding violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings is already sufficiently covered by the legislation in force, so that we do not see any grounds for further action by the Council of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u37	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Of course, my debate will focus on the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, if I want to clarify this amendment, there must be something else to point out. We have already seen in the views of the parliamentary groups, at least some, that this law is essentially being amended by a recommendation from GRECA. But seriously, Minister, how come GRECO first? Why not the direction of the European Commission, why not call the professional public after the changes that are numerous? At least make a debate with civil society calls. You're putting GRECO on some level in front of everyone else. Indeed, as these changes follow, so you yourself have said, to the direction of GRECA, you have not highlighted the other. You know, what happened on the parental committee, and this has to be stressed, it's been unheard of. I'm not gonna say lapsus, because there was nothing on this committee that was to blame, but it was the procedure. You know, there was some kind of chaos in there. And if I summarize a little yesterday's adoption of the law, we were sort of assigned to the hall as 1 and 2 people. There was no room in the hall. He wasn't there. But why wasn't he here? Not because we didn't arrange the proper space, but because there was a public controversy. All that should have been done with the professional and interested public earlier. A number of representatives were there. And everyone from the first to the last actually called for what was going on. The Minister made available, I think, three to four days to respond to his proposal. I think we're absolutely in agreement here. So if we are changing some law, and with this amendment to the SDS, we would like to at least further regulate things that we consider to be crucial, it would be right to allow a public debate, in view of your past opinions, the honourable Minister. I must remind you again that this way you have violated the provisions of the resolution on normative activities. You probably know that, but violations for you are not such a problem. But for me, they are, and for a lot of the public. Let me remind you of your 2012 opinion, when there was another government and there was a change in each other's law, where you informed the public by letter that there was a breach of transparency, economy, lack of public principle, legal certainty, non-controlling corruption risks. Of course, all of this is gone today. Minister, how else am I supposed to trust you? In one year you change your position from one extreme to another. In fact, I hope that you will accept the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party because it points to what the public is alerting – that something is very wrong with our judicial system. And the GRECA recommendations that we accept today, of course, will not solve this. Finally, let me remind you how much a resident's work costs. On average, I think 48 euros, but in the European Union it costs us, I think, about 70 euros. Why, Your Honor? On the other hand, I think the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, when you impose something on them, emphasise that in this law they need additional resources. Are we going to further infuse the system? But the solutions you're proposing certainly don't mean the essence. In our courtrooms, when the debates are held, if we speak only in the Supreme Court, somehow he sits in the Chamber of Five Judges. They make a decision that the person who receives the decision does not know how the individual judge has decided. Do you think that's right? It seems right to you that when such a decision falls to the Constitutional Court, it is not known how the judge voted. And if it falls, it's about the Senate problem. This should also be highlighted. And most importantly, what seems more important to me than the fact that the Council of Justice somehow shaved on your proposal for a law – because the fact that the Council of Justice has shaved itself may even be in your favor – but whatever it is, it is that citizens would actually be aware of the report on human rights violations in proceedings, of what is going on. I don't know what we're afraid of here. They're not judges of the holy cow. See, the neighbouring Croatia has a transfer of meetings from the hall and the judge stands up when he gives a measure or judgment, because he has so much respect for the public, because he knows that he is being followed. Because that means something in the country. But with us, these people are hidden. But with this we do wrong to those who are good judges, for the bad light then falls upon all things. Finally, it would also be right, because some point out that we have, I think, over 300 European Court rulings, that the Constitution has been violated in Slovenia or that human rights violations have been committed. 300 decisions. Why don't we know who they were in public? What are we hiding here? Wouldn't that help if these things were published, as proposed by the amendment, that no one would think that I'm not talking about the amendment, that's exactly what I'm talking about. If this were true and these matters would finally begin to be published, I believe that perhaps it would be less in some way. Last but not least, it would be right for these people to take responsibility and that this will be settled once and for all in this country. You too, Minister, are on the wallpaper every day, you say. That's what you said in the introduction. And that you've been more recently. But that's the way it is. So did I. Not the judges. And that's not right. Everyone has to be responsible for their work. No matter what you say, it just happens and there's a violation. That's why we have higher levels. It's true. But, you know, the doctor doesn't make a professional mistake either, because he wanted to make it — and then it's obvious to him. But it happens. And we all know what happens next. But that's not the case with the judges. And, Your Honor, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is at least a step closer to what the public actually wants. A transparent judiciary, a court based on the values they are supposed to be bound by, and a judiciary in which the Slovenian people will be able to trust. It's not like that today. It's just not like that today. And it's up to us. I know that the well-respected Jasna often disagrees with me, even today, but she was a judge. I'd be glad to see her decisions. She must have done a lot of good, but I don't know. Thank you very much. I'm not an expert, absolutely not, thank you. But surely there is no need to humiliate anyone in the hall. In different colleges we studied, indeed, one in Slovenia somewhere else. So I would actually call for you to consider the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and move forward to what we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u39	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished minister! I am pleased to discuss this debate with my predecessor, my colleague Anje, because I see that we are at a number of points together, when we are talking about transparency, that we want transparency, that we want transparency, not only do we want to respect human rights, and that we want to ensure it not only today, but also ensure the future. And precisely because, as I have heard in the debate, because judges are not holy cows and because they have to answer for their work like everyone else, I believe that even now, with regard to this amendment that we are talking about today, there are institutions in existing legislation that guarantee the responsibility of the judge and respect for human rights. Let me just list a few of them that come from, of course, the legislation that we are talking about today, which is the proposal of this law. The assessment of the judicial service, the judge's discharge institute, i.e. criminal liability in the case of a biased and unfair trial and disciplinary proceedings are all mechanisms that ensure this – respect for human rights and, of course, also demonstrate and require the responsibility of the judge, i.e. the judge. That is why I believe that there is no need for us to impose further work and further regulate the area of respect, the identification of possible human rights violations, because this aspect is sufficiently covered in existing legislation. As my spokeswoman said earlier, there is also evidence in the human rights record that indicates the state of violation or the state of respect for human rights. And I'd like to refer to the discussion of previous debaters. Today is precisely because we want to ensure respect for human rights and because we want to ensure transparency of work, we have before us this proposal for a law. You all kind of tripped against the stone of a reduced procedure. Let me just remind you why it's a reduced procedure. As early as 2012, we had a review and on the table of the GRECA report, which made clear what these recommendations are and in which direction we should therefore work and work. And they're kind of staying somewhere, because today is 2015. And even today we have a re-evaluation, which was given in December 2014, which is not that far back. If I only refer to this topic, which we are talking about today, namely the judges, the judicial service, the state prosecutors, who are concerned with this area of regulation by code, to follow some integrity, anti-corruption, that we have zero tolerance for corruption, it is said that the general situation concerning judges and prosecutors is unsatisfactory. He says that in most of these recommendations, we have remained at an early stage, that we have done almost nothing at home. In GRECA's view, I regret that I regret that this institution does not mean how much to some, but I regret that it should, because it is not an institution, but an institution of experts working in the field of expertise and knowing what they are talking about and in which direction it should work at the European level, not only at the level of individual countries. And they say that, in the Slovenian context, there was little work done in this area. Although progress has been made in the preparation of the various soft law instruments, as required by the recommendations, i.e. at the level of codes, ethical rules, but unfortunately we must implement them, so we must do exactly what we have before us today. So we need to get them into law. And today's proposal is a step towards that. GRECO also explicitly stated in his report that we are now at a very low level of compliance with these recommendations and give us a new opportunity to prove and prove ourselves to be truly thinking in this area in the right direction and that we are also ready to do something, precisely because, as you all have found, transparency of work and transparency in the field of justice, which will give security to both our citizens and those working in the field of justice. This next opportunity will be on 30 June 2015. I think today is exactly what is before us, what we really need to do, to take the first step towards demonstrating this zero tolerance and to show that we are actually working towards transparency. And maybe it's about the code and the interpreters, and then I'll get it over with. Ethical rules, in fact, do not interfere with autonomy or professionalism, but are essentially designed to prevent abuse, that is, everything we are all against. And I think we're all in this together. As for the interpreters and the forensic experts, it is right to speak at this point about the need to regulate this area. And it is right to limit responsibility and to achieve control, which is the main purpose of this proposal and the regulation that we are talking about today. It is the control over implementation and the work of a particular segment. It is not about restricting work, as has been said at certain points, or limiting the right to work, which is constitutionally ensured. No, it's not, because they can still act as experts in this area. The question is whether we do not have an area in which they act as experts, even a right and a possibility of control. They don't have it. And since, for its purpose, the execution is an institution to assist a judge in deciding in cases where he does not have specific expertise, it is necessary to restrict this control and to effectively exercise this control by the Ministry of Justice. And only in the way that it is now proposed can we ensure this. And that's why it's right to follow that. However, we still allow that an expert or a judicial interpreter in professional work, that is, when he works on the market, works as an expert, and in such a case, it is right that he is equal to all the other experts who also operate on the market. It is true, and I must also agree here that this area of regulation of the work of these individuals on the market is very fragmented and requires proper regulation. Appropriate regulation in such a way that it will enable the work of the profession in this field, with respect for specific criteria, standards that are of course in force. But that's another story. When we talk about unification, then, under what kind of entry conditions can someone do a certain job, of course, on a professional basis. I don't think this is about what someone might want to suggest that we violate constitutional rights. Far from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u41	Mrs. Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the amendment proposed by the SDS Group of Members, I would like to draw attention in particular to the following. Article 1 is the proposed amendment, and I will refer to the explanation. We believe that, in the field of justice, it is necessary to ensure consistent respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings, and therefore we propose three additional indents. The proposal requires the Council of Justice to monitor, identify and analyse violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to something I've been observing lately, and I think it was produced by one analysis by Dr. Lovr Šturm. It's an operation with the term "contraband." I note, in particular, that part of the policy, most of the types of SDS, defines a violation of the Constitution as an intentional offence of certain actors who have decided on certain rights. In short, he's criminalizing this concept, which is naked deception. The proceedings are regulated by procedural laws and since the process itself is regulated by law, it is quite common for errors to occur. And that's normal, it's built into the justice system itself, into an instant trial. If the error was, for example, found in a lower-level trial, the higher-level court shall annul such a judgment. But just because this mistake occurred doesn't mean that the judge committed a deliberate violation of the Constitution, that he violated it, I don't know that he wanted to violate anyone's human rights. Part of the policy, which consistently refers to this, advocates this very thesis that it is intentional infringements. We also have an eyewitness to the minister, and I don't want to be his advocate here right now. You broke the constitution. In fact, there was only one decision-making process in some process of issuing the KPK report. And such cases are being remedied in court proceedings, now not least in the Supreme Court. And not from the first, but it went to the higher court first, and it came back not to say what a colloquial event it was, or else you're well aware of it. That analysis I read myself, Dr. Sturm, who says there have been so many and so many violations of constitutional rights, is very flawed. For the first time, it's not clear who these violations were resolved, and in what way, I know the cases that are covered inside, and I know they were. And what's the second thing is, when you constantly expose yourself to someone's violation of rights, either to judges or to certain politicians, to anyone, you forget that the Constitutional Court has also repealed a whole bunch of laws that have been passed in the National Assembly. Let me remind you, ZUJF, part of the ZUJF was cancelled because they said it was unconstitutional. It is said that those Members who voted in favour of the ZUJF violated the Constitution by this logic. And who's going to answer here now would be asked by someone from another political party. It should be noted here that this concept of constitutional violations is being over-exploited, obviously from certain political purposes, not from the exercise of human rights protection at all. And in this light, we also see this arrangement in this amendment, which is why we cannot support it. As I mentioned earlier, if the court found that there had been a procedural breach, that there had been a violation of the Constitution, this was due to a mistake. Some judges may be too wrong, and this must also be sanctioned, perhaps on purpose, but this must be determined and processed before the law. But it's not all about throwing in the same basket, you've all been deliberately wrong, and it's just to the detriment of us. That's not true. That's not true. The fact that someone was intentionally wrong is a completely different category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u43	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u44	Don't mind me, President, I just want to ask you one question. I hope we're at the point of the Courts Act, because if we're not, then tell me, I'll go out and I'll come when this point goes forward. Now I hear we're talking about matter outside this law, and I would suggest we stick to it. It is customary for us to have a general discussion of the whole law in Article 1 and then stick to points, amendments or amendments in order. But this now, KPK and this, I think you need it somewhere else, somewhere else, somewhere else. Otherwise, we'll change the point. I'd like to discuss the law. If you can, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u45	I believe that the debate was earlier on the law because it touched on the interpretation of amendment number one, which has been tabled and which we are currently discussing. It is up to me to judge what is involved in this or what is not, and I believe that this moment is still within this debate, so I ask you to remain in this assembly. And since you'll get the word then, you'll be able to discuss it. Now Mrs. Jasna Murgel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Judicial Service, the proposed amendment appears to me to be fine in particular with two aspects, as regards the fact that, if this amendment is adopted, the Code of Judicial Ethics will be adopted by the Council of Justice. The Code of Judicial Ethics has only been adopted by the Court of Justice and the Council of Justice has somehow called on the judges and informed them that it would take account of this Code of Judicial Ethics also for those judges who are not members of the judiciary, but GRECO has given the opinion that this is not sufficient and that the Code of Judicial Ethics should be adopted in such a way that it will be formally applicable to all judges, including those who are not members of the judiciary. If anyone has looked at that code of judicial ethics that exists in a judicial society, it has several articles, but it has already been interpreted by the judiciary, there is a judicial ethics commission, where the judges have set themselves very strict principles. I think that judges will have no problem with this and will also be in compliance with the principles of judicial ethics when this code is adopted when it is adopted by the Council of Justice. I think this thing is very welcome. Another important issue that is the subject of the amendment of the Judicial Service Act is the possibility of a district judge being assigned to the seat of a district judge. Some district courts have a lot of work to do, and so far there's only a chance for the district judge to be assigned to work at the district court, which I've been doing myself. However, it is a very welcome opportunity for a district judge who is already qualified to work in a district court to be deployed there and thus contribute to the speedy handling of cases, because they do not move the case to another court, which is, for example, another location, but only a judge, which does not increase the costs of the proceedings, since parties, witnesses, experts and I do not know who should come to another court. [[advertising in the hall]] I know it's the Courts Act, thank you. With regard to the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, I believe that it is unnecessary, as judges are already being assessed enough. As we have said many times before on the Committee on Justice – this has also been pointed out by representatives of the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice – a judicial function is one of the most supervised functions in the country. In the first year when the judge is re-elected as a judge, he shall be evaluated for the first three years each year and then for three years thereafter. Then there may be extraordinary controls, supervisory complaints, an assessment of the judicial function. And to say that the judge is not being evaluated now and that his term of office has been cemented and that no one is able to do anything to him is simply depressed and is not true. If we just look at, say, a district judge on justice who has a standard of 14 judgments per month, of course written by himself, maybe has half a professional associate to help out if the entire expert's fortune is that his pay grade is 50 and the district judge starts with 47, why don't you compare a little – where is the MP? The judge has a very difficult judicial function, which is properly controlled. There is also that article of the Penal Code relating to judges. Of course, you will find that it has not yet been used, but it is there and can possibly be used. As regards the professional evaluation of individual court decisions. All I could think of was being able to assess the court's decision professionally by someone who is qualified to do so. And that's a trained lawyer, a judge who's in high court. Parliament has the power to familiarise itself with the work of the Court in the context of the report of the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice. And that's it. I find it unacceptable to raise specific court cases and interpret them for political purposes. Yeah, you can just interpret them, it's not illegal, but we need some legal expertise to comment on this. The legal remedies are provided for in the judicial system to apply. They're supposed to make the mistakes go away. And if the error is established, then it is only by achieving that a certain judgment has been annulled in the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, that legal protection has been obtained. Yes, the assessment of the judicial service shall indicate, monthlyly, the details of the confirmed cases, of the dismissed cases, of the relative infringements, of the absolute infringements. Each judge shall be held on a monthly basis and shall be assessed within the framework of the assessment of the judicial function every three years and may also be the reason for finding that there is a reason for the termination of the judicial function. That, on the basis of a single judgment which is only exposed to the public and which does not in any way constitute the full scope of the judge's work, his term of office would immediately cease and then no judge would be present in the State. As a result of this proposed amendment, we cannot agree, for it represents an attempt to exert unnecessary additional pressure on judges, a pressure that is not necessary, because all mechanisms to control the implementation of judicial work are already included in the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Courts, so that the amendment is unnecessary and does not need to be included in this amendment to the law that we are considering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u47	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I must also say that I am a little confused by the motion for an amendment to Article 1, and I must say that the explanation was very broad and I think we have sailed a little away from the subject matter of the court itself. I also note in the debate of the other Members that we are talking about a broader topic, but I will be specifically defined until the first amendment, regardless of whether I would prefer to define myself to everyone, but because the president has mentioned that we are being defined until the first amendment, I will define myself in this regard. I believe that the existing reporting system on the functioning of the courts is regulated. The annual reports on the functioning of the courts already cover analyses highlighting human rights violations in judicial proceedings. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that there are other institutions that ensure respect for human rights in judicial proceedings or in the exercise of judicial responsibility. The central staff records of judges shall also contain data covering possible violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. There is also a system of reporting on the functioning of courts and other institutions at individual and specific levels that ensure respect for human rights in judicial proceedings, the identification of judicial responsibility through specific cases such as the assessment of the judicial service, disciplinary proceedings, the discharge of a judge, special offences, bias and criminal proceedings. The proposed amendment by the SDS Group, which imposes additional works and additional records, is of the view of the Social Democrats that it is unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President. In a procedural explanation, the President explained that we can really talk about what we want, just to be called a court. The word court needs to be used, and we can go what we want. This is now a parliamentary practice, and I will remember this for all points, for all objects, etc., and I will use this forever. But we do have on record that this is within the scope of the possibility. So much for an explanation. Besides, I think it's ridiculous, puzzled with logic, so I'm not gonna do it. I just wanted to warn you that there's somewhere else for other discussions. We have legalised what we Members have used so far. Okay. Again with the new thing. What I have pointed out at the outset of the Law on Courts and what was more or less very clear by the Minister and his colleagues is clearly stated and what I am not comfortable with, which I see some SMC Members explaining, which is that they mix two concepts. For few articles do not yet mean minor changes. These are two different things that don't go together. So now we're going to count the terms of how many there are, and if there are few, that really means a minor change. It's not like that. And I'm going to try to get to the first thing that seems very important to me. The concept of the Code is not to be transformed into a normative form within the meaning of law, and this is wrong from the very beginning, regardless of what GRECO thinks and what it wants. GRECO, of course, had recommendations in terms of some stronger commitments, but the sense of ethics and some morals cannot be obtained simply by writing something into the law. There's no way to get it. If you didn't internalize it yourself, if you didn't take it for granted, if you didn't take it as a normal act, given the work you're doing. Of course, there are housing organisations, which then also have some kind of self-regulation within their own species, when, of course, they violate these basic rules and they can have very much weight, sometimes even more weight than we prescribe legally. But of course, we are more concerned with what is written in the law, and we think that this has solved the problem, and we know from practice that we have never before known what we have written in the law, but not only that it is not respected, it is not sanctioned or even implemented. You have seen for yourself, for example, at this same point, when we see that there is really no control in a particular part, and because you find that you do not have it or can't do it or you don't want to do it, or even evaluate it, because I am thinking, because there is no assessment of what would be necessary if you decided to take a different step, I am talking to the judges and interpreters when it was suggested that this second path should be made, not the one that the Court of Auditors was talking about. Well, if I go back to the code. See, the Consultative Council of European Judges has highlighted two essential principles. It is a consultative council which advises the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and has also set minimum standards in opinion number 3 and number 10. But he said two things. The codes must be adopted by the judges themselves, and they must also have a different use than the legal or disciplinary rules. No, no, no. We don't go this way, we go the other way and we say that this is better and more effective and I don't know what else and, of course, we just attach the reports to GRECO and we're there. And that seems wrong to me. Especially when, of course, judges also point to this. It's a stretch. You know, it doesn't just affect judges. Far from it. This will have an effect on everything. Indeed, only those criteria that will be legally prescribed will count, since all other housing organizations in our society have no legal basis. But they won't be worth anything anymore because we've put a category of judges on something more. However, I still argue that all public officials should be in the same rank as judges, not in terms of tasks, but in terms of integrity and necessity. And I also got this answer here that the judges are something more. I also received this clear message from the committee that distinction should be done. Politicians are allowed a little more than judges. The second thing that seems to me to be at odds with all logic is, of course, that if you read very carefully and look at the Legislative and Legal Service, what comments she has had in court experts, where, of course, she points to the following things. In particular, it points out that there is a general prohibition on the execution of judicial proceedings outside the courts, so it can in fact have a negative impact on the conduct of the professional public in judicial proceedings. It then points out that it is a special status enjoyed by judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters. Of course, they are still treated as a whole in the PSC because they have not yet taken into account the amendment which follows. At the same time, for specific qualifications and stable evaluation and qualifications. "That is why we believe that the restriction on the use of this qualification can also constitute a restriction on freedom of work." It's a very clear message from the ZPS. Having regard to the constitutional right to freedom of work, to be restricted only in accordance with the principle of proportionality, Article 15, paragraph 15, of the Constitution, by which an action must be appropriate in order to achieve the constitutionally permissible objective which must be necessary. Since the objective cannot be achieved by any other means and must be proportionate in a narrower sense. We're not gonna respect that. Let's move on. The intervention is also disproportionate, of course, because it is about achieving the objective, the quality of work in this case, and the inappropriate means used, which is a restriction or ban on work. Actually, I think it's very important that we know something. If, in practice, we have so far had judicial evaluators and experts for those who first have contact with practice, because also with practice they will actually be able to obtain high professional criteria in assessing certain opinions of experts, experts and others, such as the fact that they have the title and perform only valuations and deliver opinions on the basis of individual requests of the court in proceedings and so on. Now we've separated this because we're afraid of commercials, instead of putting in serious control and actually doing this distinction there, who can and who can't do it. This is not about the priori of what has been trying to do lately, when – Minister, I have nothing against you or against your suggestions, far from it – but frankly I think this is wrong. I'm an interpreter myself, and I've worked in court as an interpreter myself, and I know what I'm talking about, and that's the wrong thing. If we did this in my business, there are only 40 of them in my profession in Slovenia. Then we'd just do the casino. There wouldn't be any more in court, because anyone would say I'd rather work so that I could live at all, because the costs and resources you get from the expert court are drastically different, of course, lower than commercial work. Well, with the interpreters, this amendment is now proposed for at least one part of this part to be rectified. We will not support this amendment or any of it, because it seems right for us not to be involved in the whole process if we do not support the law. It's always been funny that I support one amendment, and then I don't end up supporting the law. It doesn't make any sense, it's purely principled that we simply don't support this kind of procedure, and with the other amendments, I'm not going to comment anymore because I've taken care of everything here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Please sign in. Mrs. Root Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Perhaps an explanation or even as part of my debate, we discussed the need for an expert on the code of ethics and integrity, morals and ethical issues. Let me remind you of one very important thing. I believe that all of my colleagues, especially those who sat on the Justice Committee, knew this somehow now, because the judges themselves, namely the profession, who will be the ones who will be the most affected by this code and who will be the ones who will be the most affected by the regulation of this code, have explicitly stated, on the basis of the survey conducted between them, the results of this survey, which, of course, were also presented at a special conference or round table, organised in a real college, that this area should be regulated in the form of a code, i.e. in the form of ethical definitions, which will complement the work and, in some way, also affect the part that touches their work from this point of view. In particular, 300 judges participated in the survey and they also explicitly allowed the results of the survey to be presented. The key point is that the profession itself has found that it needs this type of regulation and that we need such a code. That's essential. Once again, this code does not mean any interference with professionalism or autonomy, but we introduce it to be valid for all, so such a proposal and such regulation, not just for those who are members of society, because we know whether I can be a member of society or not, so this is in my discretion. Now this proposal will apply to everyone. And once again, it is intended to prevent abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xenia Kreniya Kramar. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that our justice needs fundamental reforms, fundamental changes, and in New Slovenia we expected these changes quickly, in the first year. You'll say it's not the first year of the government's operation, but it's six months, which is what I've been repeating at the board meeting. The changes needed by the judiciary, which are pointed out by both the professional public and the lay public and the economy - I think this is not only about this change that we have received on the table, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, but is a reform of the judiciary's desire and requires all these public to make these radical changes so that things need to be cut down more deeply. In Novi Slovenija, we are constantly critical to the staffing of the courts in recent years. I am happy – and we also support this, although not the whole law, but to set out pre-known criteria for the selection of candidates. But where have we been? For 20, 25 years she has been independent of Slovenia and we have not had these predetermined, well-known criteria. I wonder, really, because we are in the 21st century, and it is only with this novel that we are introducing some public criteria. There's something else I'm worried about. Mr Vladi or the President of the Council of Justice was also at a meeting of the Committee, and he was not particularly impressed by these new criteria. Here I wonder whether these new criteria introduced by the Ministry will be taken into account for the selection of judges, or whether this will remain just a dead letter on paper. We are not aware of everything, including in the area of appointment of judges, that each allocated right must also bring with it responsibility, otherwise we are opening the door to new corruption risks, actions. And if there is no one to follow this – Mrs Murgel, a colleague, has talked about this before, but I will come to the end of these matters, to these criteria, because I will first tell you the experience or knowledge of certain cases of how things are going. What bothers me the most and us in Novi Slovenija is the circulation of the files in the first-degree courts, why it does not redistribute the judges. Ma'am said some of the courts are busy. True, but where is the one who should supervise, and who is responsible for overseeing the courts, how an individual court works, and whether there are too many files to send there a judge who may not have such a burdened worker? Yes, I can say that this operation is contrary to the material provisions on local jurisdiction. The worst part is that the parties are not informed where their file was transferred. That's how they get a claim when they think they're going to go to a court in their district for a criminal case, and they have to drive 50 kilometers away. I think that this is at the same time a court does not meet the criteria and has already been in the past in the process of abolishing it. [[…]] I mean, where is the responsibility of those who run the courts or who control all this? Finally, we wonder who is judging and how they can judge respect for the terms of such local jurisdiction, such courts. This is actually a violation of the law. Or it is in order to reduce the transparency and traceability of judges, to spread these judicial files, if I say domestically, across Slovenia and then no one knows where the file is. That is why I would ask the representatives of the Ministry, which was said, that judges are monitored for three years or every year for the first three years, and then for three years, that is what was said. I know the case when from such a court where the files were distributed – I can tell you, Lithia, Trbovlje, Vrhnika, and I may have let one go – and the judge was transferred from the district to the district court, but from such a case, it seems to me that you need control and, of course, responsibility. I would like to ask how long has the discharge of judges been due to non-compliance or to the achievement of the results of work efficiency. That's what I want to know: how many were there? Because we know some of these cases, and even when we had our first hearing on the committee, we got quite a few e-mails, what and how it was. But I'd just like to point it out. Yes, responsibility must also be established for the work of judicial assessors and experts, because obviously, even in the light of the debate on the Committee, this supervision has not been practical to date. Even the area of choice was quite, I think, messy. I also think that this area of appointment of judicial evaluators and experts needs to be systematically regulated and the procedures for appointment, education, knowledge verification and, again, we must not forget the resolution. So it seems to me that in all these comments and these debates that I am listening to and that we are on a committee where I feel that there has been a very high quality debate, this needs to be heard, including by the ministry as a proposal for change, and that we are finally just seeing those reforms that need to be made in Slovenia. These days, I read on an online media, why Slovenia is not interested in the arrival of some foreign knowledge, foreign investors, and it was precisely the area of justice that made us so different from other European countries that they simply have no desire. For once that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Anji Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Let me start where my esteemed colleague Iva Dimic ended up. It is true that the European Union sees precisely the judiciary as an essential segment in order to help put an end to the crisis. This certainly means crises in all areas. And that's why today's matter that we're dealing with is so much more important because we're actually opening up things that may not be directly related to the amendment, but they're indirectly linked. I do not think it would be right for such a debate, given the time involved in the National Assembly, to be prevented. I am pleased at the essence of the debate of colleague Korenjak Kramarjeva, who is the principles of some things, which in some ways also bother me. It is true that you say that the law already ensures everything that there are no violations, that if there is a coming, they are eliminated. But it's kind of like what I'd say right now, because we have the code, the code exists, the code talks about ethical criteria. Does this mean that we have all the judges who do not respect ethical standards? But I'm not gonna say that, because if it's the opinion that it needs to be strengthened, refined, then fine. But certainly this will not change the fact that there is a reality in Slovenia, that we have a number of human rights violations in the process and the constitution, this ethical code will not end. Previously, it was by a fellow Member of the SMC, and here, unfortunately, I have to answer, it is said that there are some violations that have been prepared in some analysis by Mr Sturm. It's true, but there's more than that information. Let me first say that, unlike some others, I take this study seriously. Finally, it is the comment maker of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and probably the material knows much better than any other, but whatever. Opinions are different. However, allow me to quote to you the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as this is, of course, linked to our amendment. 132. Article 132 of the Constitution states: "If a judge violates the Constitution in the exercise of a judicial function or is in serious breach of the law, the State Assembly may, at the request of the judicial council of the judge, resolve it." Now I'm asking you, how many of these solutions have there been? There were. Now I'm going to tell you another piece of information. In the last 15 years, according to Dr Šturma, some experts here disagreed with at least 600 cases or even over 600 cases of human rights violations identified by the Constitutional Court. And this took place in the entire vertical of the trials. And if you don't believe this information, then I hope you believe the findings of the European Court of Human Rights. You may not be comfortable here either, but there are over 300 of these. How many judges have been dismissed, Your Honor? Last time, I think, there was some kind of information, given to me by one of the representatives of the Supreme Court, if I'm not mistaken, 5, 7 discharges over the entire period. You're giving it to me! When a doctor makes a professional error, professional supervision is immediately introduced. I just don't believe in this control. I also somehow cannot agree with that part of Mrs Jazna Murgel's debate when she says that the non-experts should now determine whether human rights have been violated or not. No, that's not what the amendment says. Allow me to read what the amendment wants, i.e., we are talking about the Council of Justice, "accompanies, notes and analyses violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings, as it adopts a semi-annual report on abuses in the judiciary, which will inform the National Assembly no later than 30 June of the current year and 31 December". It's a briefing from the National Assembly. The Council of Justice is said to be a professional body — is it not? You'll ask your president. Next, "he shall keep a public record of violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights. It shall carry out procedures to determine the abuse of a judicial function in cases of violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia which have been identified. What's so disturbing here? Why so much opposition to this amendment? Don't you really want to know who and why human rights are being violated? After all, that's why we're sitting in the National Assembly. We're not talking about identifying them, but it's only right that we're talking about them. However, they are to be found by those who are therefore called and, of course, expertly qualified. And I absolutely agree with that. Earlier, the chairman of the committee had somehow said that she was confused about the breadth of the debate. You know, it's true, because I'm confused, too. In view of the committee – I think 13 articles are being amended – the Legislative and Legal Service considered that it was inappropriate 7. Even then, the proposed amendments did not remove all irregularities. That's the legal and legal service. The most interesting thing is that today, when we consider the other amendments, I see again an article that you, a respected coalition, have rejected on the committee. Today it's happening again in here, and now I don't know if you were dissatisfied with a committee that was supposed to be designed, you didn't know what you were doing, or if the minister didn't have enough time to find you in the hallways, but that's the fact that, you know, it's a mess. It's a mess. First, the coalition throws something away, then brings something through the back door to the National Assembly just because the article was adopted and you finally supported one of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but that the public will know why. So that you could bring back yours, which you, of course, rejected back then. But it's a mess. It's a mess. However, speaking of the judicial backlogs that are the problem of our judiciary, talking about greater transparency and a fairer judiciary can be no confusion and must not be confusion. There should never be too little time for such a debate. It should always be enough. And I hope that this debate will go primarily in this direction, so that, finally, also by the Minister, we will actually get measures on the so-called judicial laws that will regulate these matters. These laws, which we will deal with today and a few more tomorrow, certainly do not bring about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to have another thought here about why foreign investors do not come to Slovenia, and that the main culprit is justice and the only and main and very practical one. I think it's a little different. I agree with you in part, but I think that this mistrust is the reason for the various factors, not at all, not just justice. It is true, however, that our environment is attractive to foreigners as investors, it is also affected by transparency, stability, the sustainability of our legislation, but it is only one stone in the entire mosaic of all others who make up this business environment. But it is true that justice can also contribute and build it. Certainly not that it is an exclusive culprit and an exclusive builder of the attractiveness of our business environment for foreign investors. Yes, the difference is, of course, with human rights and then with the code, because if we look at the definitions that they are, these kinds of monitoring and those data that they are, they apply to everyone. They're attached to everything. Such is the legal provision that applies to all. But the code, so if we go beyond today's proposal, it's a code that society has. And before that, I pointed out that he was a voluntary member of society or not. And that's why we need to move forward so that we can get to the point where the rules will also be laid down in the code, that the code as a whole applies to everyone. That is why I think it is so important that we regulate it in this way and in this way define these settings so that the Council of Justice will then manage the substantive area. And even ethical rules of conduct are assistance to the judge's decision, not to interfere with his independence or expertise, but to deter potential threats, violations of the law and the constitution, so in a sense they are a moral guardian. And once again, as I said before, it's not an intervention, it's a complement. And I think it's okay, so we know and somehow follow it in the sense of this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much. As far as the code of ethics is concerned. The law will only stipulate that the ethical code will be adopted by the Council of Justice, and that there will be no ethical code in the law. Therefore, given that judges in the Council of Justice have a majority, they will be actively and mostly involved in the adoption of the ethical code. Judges have nothing against the code of ethics, they have accepted it themselves, they stick to it, they respect it themselves, they respect its nature, so there is no major opposition here, but they are now subject to the rules of the code of ethics. They know him, they respect him, like I said, and there's no problem. Furthermore, I would point to the reform of justice – and there are no colleagues – but the reform of justice cannot be done quickly, because then mistakes of error are made, which then burdens this same judicial system if we quickly change it, because we put some provisions into the judicial system, and then we put something into the judicial system, which must then work under these rules. And if we quickly propose to him a bunch of some standards, which has happened many times, let's say I had a problem with the Law on Judicial Fees, which, hop, is such a very simple law, and then the whole judicial system is stuck because of that law, because we didn't know how to work the case at all, and then three other laws have been amended, and now you work and you're guilty because you can't work because you have to create one year of judicial practice, so that you can even know how to forgive someone's payment of a court fee because the law is written as quickly as it was written, on a quick basis, as soon as possible, that this justice will work once again so that all problems in the country will be resolved. And even though at the end of the day, all the problems and problems always end in justice, which then has to solve all those problems and is the last decision-making forum that decides about all of them, I will not use the word that happens in the country. [[…]] The judiciary is not to blame for the existence of violations of the law, which must then be decided by the judiciary. So much for these reforms quickly. The Ministry of Justice is preparing, I would not even talk now about reform, but about some of the changes that will – and this is important – in cooperation with those main actors, the builders of justice: the Supreme Courts, the Council of Justice, the Court of Justice and who else will make a statement to the debate, have a deliberate decision on what needs to be done in the area of the judiciary. And so on. Surveillance of the courts. Yes, it is carried out by the President of the District Court, the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Supreme Court, also reports to the Ministry, and reports monthly to the judge on the achievement of the standard. Do you understand?Oh, my God! A month, like we're standing in production! How many judgments did you make? Did you make 14 judgments? Did you sell 12 houses? I don't know what, and if you don't have a standard for three months, you have to report to the Council of Justice, and I don't know who, and you're being supervised by the Supreme Court, you can be monitored every day. [[…]] So, the Supreme Court has already said many times that some changes need to be made, that the judicial system is comparable to other EU systems and that changes are necessary, but, as I said, slowly and thoughtfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Any other wishes? Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs Murglov has made quite a point, we obviously need reforms, unfortunately, as soon as possible, although I know that we need to be careful about this. Absolutely. But just what you are stressing is that on the one hand, judges are overwhelmed with literally rulings to stand, then let us listen to the following information. According to the European Commission, Slovenia spends 86.9 euros per capita for the justice system, while the average in the European Union is 41.7 euros. Secondly, according to the European Commission, Slovenia has 71.2 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, with both full-time judges and temporary staff considered to be employed and an average of 45.6 in the EU country. Now look at the difference. Madam colleague, she highlighted the problem of overload, and I am talking about the average in the European Union. Then something doesn't work in this country or something really doesn't work in this country. If it is true that decisions are constantly being made, then we must be even more afraid. Then support this amendment with both hands, not because of it, but because something really needs to be done and the amendment would be the first step towards it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Any other wishes, perhaps? If not, I thank and put to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u64	I said before, now I would really like to hear from a respected colleague, from a coalition, whether they support it or not, depending on the committee's decision. There was another view of the coalition, and I was curious whether you changed it, supplemented it, you found at the committee's own meeting that the proposed article in the law was not sufficient, but it seemed almost identical to me. I would be very happy to have an explanation from the proponents, given that it has been proposed by the coalition and that I cannot address just one of the parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss it? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I've been a little ahead of myself before. I'm gonna use the time for this article. Here we propose, in essence, only the informationisation of the enrollment. I think that's to say hello. Today we will also accept the so-called changes in the Court Registry, where we can find out how important it is that matters are also managed electronically and that these matters, as far as information is concerned, are as regulated as possible. I think that such a matter would certainly help in the final stage of a more transparent work and in some ways make it easier to work. She must be more than welcome in these days.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am moving on to Article 7 and to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u68	We propose a deletion because this was the opinion of a number of those who were somehow able to participate in the debate in that short time. Believe me, there's more to these opinions, but you know, in two to three days you just can't present it. And everyone just doesn't wait in front of the screens when it's their turn. So actually think about the issue being deleted, and then, by some normal procedure, if I may say so, file a case that will be as widely coordinated as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Article 7 speaks of forensic experts, court interpreters and, of course, we believe that the article is well enough to govern this area and that the SDS proposal is not appropriate and therefore we do not support it. I believe that the functioning of the Court's interpreters remains the same and unlimited, while experts and valuers will continue to be able to carry out their work on the basis of other laws governing this area. Of course we will vote against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Any other requests for discussion? Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u72	Your Honor! We have heard that you do not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Then I urge you to follow the opinion of the associations. The Association of Permanent Interpreters and Legal Translators of Slovenia, in its comments, emphasises that the amendments do not comply with the Directive of the European Union on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings, nor do they comply with Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Standard for Providers of Translation Services and with many provisions, such as Article 444, paragraph 4, or Article 677, paragraph 3, of the Act on Economic Companies, which provides that the documents must be submitted in the original and in the certified translation. Your Honor, your profession has informed you of this. Let the Slovenian Democratic Party propose this, put a little policy back in line. The profession's talking about him being in disharmony. Now we will all be in breach of all directives. Once you hang on to them when it comes to pyrotechnics, and when it comes to beating through Slovenia, you talk about what directives set out when we talk about justice, where we should be most precise, and that is irrelevant, for God has mercy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? No, then I'm closing the debate by 7. To the article and we move on to Article 10 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. If we really care about ethics, to reduce the risk of corruption and everything else, which we are always listening to: ethics, morality, anti-corruption arrangements and so on, then you will certainly support this amendment. This is because delays in the adoption of policies, perceptions and management of corruption risks and the exposure of judges are the reason for its resolution. I think that I am making this amendment after all that we are listening to in your debates, as your Minister has recently said, and despite the fact that he has violated this legislation himself, you will certainly support this amendment, because otherwise it cannot be.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate on this Article. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Dark Staret, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are looking at the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the legislative procedure. Since minor changes and legislative amendments are proposed, consideration of the law is proposed following a reduced procedure. The proposed amendments follow the recommendations of GRECO adopted at 57. A plenary session in Strasbourg between 15 and 19 October 2012, i.e. three years ago. The common denominator of these recommendations was that the procedure for the selection of judges and the procedure for the evaluation of the judicial service should be more transparent in order to follow the principle of transparency, that the criteria for the selection of judges should be further defined in order to increase their uniformity, predictability and transparency. In these proceedings, the role of the Council of Justice should also be strengthened. The objectives pursued by the proposed novels are thus to establish an objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for judicial office. An amendment is proposed with regard to the implementation of the selection procedure for the seat of the arbitration panel, after which the selection will be made in a multi-stage procedure so that the candidates can be phased out gradually. The legal level also provides for the possibility of carrying out the procedure not only on the basis of written documentation, but also to carry out appropriate tests, including technical examinations as well as the possibility of psychological testing. The second objective is to define more precisely one of the conditions for election in a judicial capacity, namely the personality of the candidate. Under the applicable legislation, the personality of the judge for the performance of the judicial function shall be determined between the general formal conditions for the election to the judicial office and the second paragraph of Article 8 shall specify what excludes the applicant's personality. In addition to knowledge, skills, skills and personality, it is necessary for a person to be able to perform a judicial function and, of course, to perform it honestly, conscientiously, carefully and responsibly. Its evaluation and evaluation shall be subject to a substantive assessment, both in the selection procedures of the Judges and in the evaluation and discharge procedures of the Judges. It is therefore proposed to specify the assessment of the personality of outside the scope of the provisions of the formal examination in the selection procedure and to propose placement between the general provisions. By placing among the general provisions, the basis for its substantive assessment shall be laid down both for candidates for judicial office and for judges. The third objective is to increase the uniformity, predictability and transparency of the criteria for the selection and evaluation of judges. The more precise criteria for the selection of candidates are laid down in the act of the body making the choice. An objective and transparent selection of candidates will be achieved under the new regime by better standardising the selection process and setting out more detailed substantive selection criteria to be adopted by the Council of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. Say good-bye again! The Committee on Justice is held at the first meeting of the 6th Regular Session, 12. 2. In 2015, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure, was also approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the applicant, the Minister of Justice, said in his initial supplementary explanation that the proposed law follows the recommendation of a group of countries of the Council of Europe against corruption, namely the need for more transparent procedures, increased transparency and a more detailed, predictable and transparent definition of criteria for the selection and advancement of judges. In doing so, it indicated the establishment of an objective and transparent selection procedure for the selection of the judicial function and the improvement of the current system as a key objective of the proposed amendments. He further expressed and justified disagreement with the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service in its work, which deals with the brought legal case and on the basis of an indictment, the main proceedings for an alleged crime, which is dealt with on an official basis as an exclusion clause, which disproportionately interferes with the right to freedom of work and the presumption of innocence. In the presentation of the written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service reiterated in particular the likelihood of dispute over the proposed regulation in terms of proportionality of interference with the constitutional right to freedom of work and the non-conformity of the criteria for election or appointment in the various functions in the field of justice. At the time of the presentation of the written opinion of the Commission of the State Regulation, the Council of State called for the consideration of the comments of all stakeholders and the future for a preliminary examination of the views of the professional and interested public and for the adoption of legislative proposals on a regular basis. The representative of the State Attorney's Office, the Attorney General, called for a reflection on the transfer of the final decision on the election or appointment of judges and state prosecutors to a less political body than the National Assembly or the Government. The Secretary-General of the Supreme Court highlighted in particular the need to protect the judge's independence and impartiality in the decision-making process. In the debate, the majority of members and members advocated the introduction of stricter criteria for election to the judiciary. In particular, the opposition Members drew attention to the incompleteness of the proposed solutions and to the need for even stricter criteria than those proposed by an effective control system, and to the question of the meaning of distinguishing the criteria for appointment or election to a judicial, parliamentary or other function. The Coalition Members expressed their support for the bill and stressed the need for changes because the nature of the judicial function requires the highest standard of integrity and personal fitness of the persons implementing it. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups to 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12. Articles 15 and 17 and have not adopted the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 7. The Committee then voted on and supported all the articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respected and respected! Let me begin by saying that in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Pensioners we support the Minister of Justice in efforts to improve the performance of the judicial service, and we assess that changes are needed, so we support the amendment of the law. It is important that the proposed solutions apply or further enhance principles such as the principle of transparency in the selection process for the selection of candidates for judicial office, the principle of greater transparency of the criteria for the evaluation of judges and the principle of integrity. For we all want our country to have as important a role as a judge, individuals who are most suitable for it, namely judges who will perform their work professionally, honestly and conscientiously. Let me take a brief look at the main solutions to the bill. One of them is the establishment of an objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for election to judicial office. In accordance with the conclusions and proposals set out in the GRECO report, it is therefore proposed to amend the procedure for the selection of candidates. In this way, the choice can be made in a multi-phase process and inadequate candidates will be phased out. In addition, it is very important that, at legal level, the possibility of carrying out the procedure is determined not only on the basis of written documentation but also by carrying out the appropriate tests, including tests of professional knowledge as well as other characteristics, skills and skills required for the successful performance of the judicial service. Applicants may thus be required to carry out psychological examinations allowing an assessment or to what extent the applicant’s abilities are in line with the requirements of the court. Furthermore, the possibility of having an oral interview with candidates who best meet the conditions and criteria for the seat of the Court of Justice is envisaged. However, a substantive assessment will also examine the personality of the candidate, which, in addition to other knowledge, is necessary for the good and efficient performance of the judicial function. Finally, let me mention the restriction that this novelty imposes, namely, that a person who has been convicted of, or has been brought against, a criminal offence may not be elected as a judge, or that a criminal charge has been brought against him, or that, on the basis of an indictment, the main proceedings have been brought for a criminal offence punishable by an official obligation. With regard to this change, it was the most controversial, but in the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia we believe that someone who is charged with such an accusation cannot be qualified to decide the charges against others. As I said in the introduction, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners, we will support the bill because we believe that its implementation will improve the conditions for the effective work of our courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. Allow me to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. We are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Service following a reduced procedure, as the applicant estimates that it is less difficult to amend. In addition to following the GRECO recommendations, the applicant submits that these amendments are also related to the two other documents adopted in 2013. These two documents are: Commitments to improve the situation in the judiciary and the National Reform Programme. Among the planned reform measures is the third pillar, improving competitiveness for long-term sustainable growth, which includes a wide range of measures, including an effective rule of law. Within this measure, we discussed a proposal for a new Law on Courts a few hours ago, and now we are proposing a new Law on Judicial Service. Therefore, the aim of this law, one of the small reforms of judicial reform, as also referred to by the media, is to improve the conditions for effective judicial work and bring about some organisational, statusal and substantive changes. The proposal states that the amendments and additions follow, for the first time, the proposal of the Courts and the Council of Justice and for the second time, the GRECO recommendation, which states that we have unpredictable procedures in Slovenia for the selection of judges. The law therefore incorporates provisions aimed at strengthening the integrity and standards of ethics in the judiciary. We have repeatedly warned the Social Democrats that judges must take care of their own reputation. They are also expected to do their work conscientiously, responsibly and qualitatively. Therefore, we believe that the requirement to strengthen integrity and the requirement for higher ethical standards in the selection procedures of candidates and candidates for the judicial function is entirely on the ground, and we can only welcome them. According to the proposal of the law, the selection procedures will be regulated in the act of the body, that is, the Council of Justice, and it is therefore important that the conditions of choice for election in the judicial function are clear and transparent. This is certainly also a measure that will dissuade many of them from thinking that they would enter the judicial function and also that future lawyers and lawyers will know in advance what personality characteristics and majority must have or must obtain in order to be able to come through a sieve of selection proceedings. But nothing new will be said by the Social Democrats when I say that we are all officials, permanent or mandate-holders, a model not only for voters and voters, but for everyone. Integrity and ethics must certainly not be foreign to us. Even without the codes, we should know how and what to do. We have supported the Social Democrats on the home working body with amendments to the coalition by supplementing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Judicial Service Act, which we will also repeat at this plenary session.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello to all of you again! We have yet another law of the mini-justice reform that I will call it. This is also accepted in the short term and is not a public debate nor is it coordinated with the professional interested public. Unfortunately, I'm going to have to say that in every one of these laws. Although this proposal was not so strongly opposed by the professional public as the Law on Courts, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has raised more concerns in this law, and even in this case the opinion is almost as much as the text of the articles. Minister Klemenčič announced the strengthening of the rule of law and the restoration of the confidence of citizens and citizens in the judiciary at the time of his presentation to the home committee before he became Minister. As a result, we are even more surprised at what he has done. We expected the stakeholders to start talking about the necessary changes and to prepare a reform that was in line with the promises he made at the time of the presentation. Instead of deliberate and coordinated solutions, we received in the National Assembly a package of laws that do not solve these essential problems of the judiciary. Otherwise, we support the objectives pursued by the proposal and relate to a more objective and transparent selection process for the selection of candidates for judicial election and to increasing the uniformity, predictability and transparency of the criteria for the selection and evaluation of judges. However, we believe that these are not the changes that will solve all the problems that arise in this area. At the hearing, the minister also highlighted the problem of changing laws too often. Since it is most ironic, he cited the Law of Judicial Service as an example and said that today there is a lack of words, a letter in the Slovenian alphabet for all novels and added that in his opinion the judicial policy in the Republic of Slovenia is missing and, I quote, "let it sound so simple, precisely this, clear and internal consistent vision of development. A vision of development based not on some external pressure either on politics, or on the streets, or on international institutions, but based on some, let's say hardcore data, serious expertly based analysis, which will not only mean some transfer of chairs across the Titanic, but will actually try to put these building blocks of the justice system into a coherent whole." If we look at the Government's normative work programme, we see that the Ministry of Justice will draw up 21 more laws this year, including all those discussed at this meeting. So we hope that in this case, the letters in the alphabet will not go away first. In spite of all that has been said in the United Left, we agree with the implementation of the GRECO recommendations, but it should be noted that GRECO warns us in these same recommendations precisely because of the excessive use of rapid procedures that prevent professional and interested public participation. We have great problems with the fact that the legislative and legal service has a constitutional and systemic nature in relation to individual solutions to concerns, that the proposal is inconsistent with the professional public and that the most controversial solutions to the amendments have not been resolved and, of course, we cannot support such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u86	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let us first point out that in New Slovenia we welcome the criteria for the selection of candidates for appointment to judicial office as defined in the law itself. The draft law lays down the following criteria: working skills, professional knowledge, personal qualities such as responsibility, reliability, and prudence, social skills as well as leadership skills, if required for a single seat to be occupied by the judge. However, the weakness that is not regulated today by the proposed law is that it has not regulated the way in which these criteria are checked and left open to the Council of Justice in order to decide, from case to case, how it will verify the fulfilment of these criteria. We would expect the law itself to sum up the solutions known in this area by the laws of comparable European countries, including mandatory written tests of knowledge, psychological tests, group interviews and so on. Furthermore, the law leaves an unresolved question as to the status of judges who are already appointed for a permanent term of office and, in the course of monitoring their work, it has been demonstrated, in accordance with the criteria adopted, that they are not suitable for the performance of a judicial function, only from the point of view of the prescribed judicial standard. For several years they have not met the criteria for quantity and, in most cases, the quality of the work they have done. Many of these judges are even making progress, since the personal councils or the Council of Justice of the required criteria do not take into account or comply consistently with the progress of the judges. We would expect the bill to regulate certain specific sanctions for such judges. However, the law currently in force regulates the possibility of a reduction of wages, but only if, according to the assessment of the Personnel Council, the judge does not meet the possibility of progress twice in a row, which means that the judge does not meet the conditions for progress until after six years. Moreover, these sanctions are practically not implemented. So there's practically no sanctions. We would like to highlight the fact that, due to professional solidarity, the conscientious, successful and, above all, fair judges are in the worst position. These have been criticized, which fall on the judiciary across the board, and themselves cannot provide an improvement in the general picture of the judiciary, apart from their contribution in the form of conscientious and honest work. They remain silent observers of the events in court, as do all lay and professional public. For the sake of protection and successful judges, it is necessary to introduce data on the quantity and quality of the work carried out by the individual judge and information on how many times he has progressed to the title and also to the pay grade. This form of control in the public opinion would also bring much more order into the judiciary. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats We will not support the Amendments and Supplementation to the Judicial Service Act because the amendments made by the law are insufficient. We could say that some of the solutions proposed are merely declaratory. In particular, the proposal for a law provides, for example, for the Council of Justice the obligation to comply with the criteria and does not prescribe sanctions if the Council of Justice fails to comply with those obligations. As we pointed out in our position on the amendment to the Law on Courts, we lack the legal basis for the responsibility of the Council as an organ and the responsibility of each member of the Council for each decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors Alliance Alenka Bratušek. Don't you? Thank you. Good. Then I ask Dr. Clearly Murgel to present the position of the Mir Cerar Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u88	Colleagues and colleagues! The substance of the amendment to the Judicial Service Act is the regulation of a more precise selection procedure and more detailed substantive criteria for the selection of candidates for judicial office. This law is essentially linked to the Law on Courts, which represents the whole of the case concerning the organisation of courts, the selection of judges and so on. Why are these criteria important? They are becoming increasingly important because the calls for judicial posts are becoming less and less. However, there is an increasing number of very good and excellent candidates for judicial office. In the courts, there are a large number of professional colleagues waiting to be successful at some call for a judge, but there are few or very few calls. It is very important what are the conditions for entry into judicial office for those who have not yet been elected to judicial office, as well as for those who may run for another court seat, for example higher, county or Supreme Court. The objectives and solutions of the proposed law have already been mentioned here, and these are transparent and objective procedures for the selection of candidates for election to judicial office, and a more precise definition of the conditions for election to judicial office, i.e. the personal suitability of the judge, which I think is very welcome, because this is a stretching concept – then personality needs to be filled again and again, therefore, it is welcome to define it in law. Under the formal conditions for the election of a judge, two conditions are newly added in Article 8, which are comparable to evidence from public records, namely that the applicant has not been convicted of an alleged offence of imprisonment and that no legal charge has been brought against her for an alleged offence which is prosecuted under an official obligation. It is pointed out here that this second requirement that no legal indictment has been brought against the applicant, this request has been specifically made at the request of the Supreme Court. This is also one criterion by which those who sincerely and seriously want to run for judicial office have no problem, nor does anyone who is charged, at least as far as I know their fellow judges, come forward for a judge if such an indictment is brought against him. The next criterion is to increase the uniformity, predictability and transparency of the criteria for the selection and evaluation of judges. A multi-phase selection process with a gradual elimination system shall be introduced. The Council of Justice may choose on the basis of written documentation, but may test the knowledge, skills, skills, can carry out psychological tests and oral interviews with candidates most eligible. Of course, the one who makes the professional choice is still the Council of Justice. This is the only one legally competent to carry out an expert opinion on whether someone meets the conditions for appointment to a judicial office, and then here in the National Assembly we decide whether this happens or not. Furthermore, the law lays down more detailed substantive criteria for the selection of candidates, namely working skills, expertise, personality and social skills, leadership skills. These criteria have already been respected by the Council of Justice, but it is very welcome that they are laid down in the law itself, and then the Council of Justice will receive and distribute them. Since it is a law that elaborates the criteria for electing a judge as a judge, the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party supports him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u90	Hello, again! Amendments and additions to the Judicial Service Act are also dealt with in the so-called shorter procedure. The amendments should follow the recommendations of GRECA following more transparent procedures, following increased transparency, more detailed and uniform and more predictable and transparent definition of criteria for the selection and advancement of judges. To this end, a more objective and transparent procedure for selecting candidates for judicial election and improving the current system should be established. As we have pointed out several times today, reforms in the field of justice are essential. I stress, reforms are necessary, not beauty repairs. Finally, elements of judicial responsibility should be established. We keep saying that, and then we call and hope that we will see it again. There are also measures that will establish de facto impartiality and the appearance of impartiality in the judiciary. The proposed amendments will not change or eliminate the abuse of the situation in the judiciary. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed that the criteria for appointment should be supplemented by the criteria for professional competence, by adding to the selection of candidates for a judicial post and the decision on progress that, in the performance of its function, it protects impartiality or the appearance of impartiality and independence of the trial and does not violate human rights and fundamental freedoms in the trial. The proposed special criterion of professional competence is based on our assessment, as it is an important element of impartiality and independence of the trial. Just as we will not support the proposal for a new Law on Courts for the sake of the procedure itself, we cannot support this amendment of the Law on Judicial Service. We are considering the proposal following a reduced procedure. In doing so, it should be pointed out that a number of substantive comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Council of Justice also stressed in its opinion that legal amendments and additions to judicial legislation should be adopted in a comprehensive, regular and not short-term manner, as well as prior professional harmonisation of all content. In view of all the above, we will oppose the proposed amendment to the Law on Judicial Service in the SDS Group. However, we will certainly closely monitor the implementation of the Law on Courts, in particular in terms of ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings, in particular the impartiality of the trial. You know, beautiful corrections and references to the so-called great GRECO, simply won't be enough to change the essentials of our justice system. Untrust in the system will continue to be strengthened, which will certainly have a negative impact on the functioning of the whole country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to discuss the amendment? I'm asking you to sign up. I give the word "magic." Goran Klemenčič, Minister [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I misunderstood. I give my word to Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I thought it was a mistake. The minister will probably talk later when he hears us, not before. I didn’t want to discuss my views at the committee’s meeting, since it seems silly to repeat myself twice, so I’d rather say everything I need today or now from the bench. In this law, I must say that at a meeting of the committee I have raised one key question that is for me, I will say that there is a point where we can take a step forward. And I can see that it's just not as strongly developed a will or desire to change the concept of what a functionary really is. I just can't accept that in this country we're hiring officials for officials A, officials B and officials C and so on. I am talking in particular about this distinction, because on the committee itself I also wanted to say, at some symbolic level, very clearly, when the Minister has very clearly rejected me, you say that I really have no idea which officials I am talking about and that this was not the purpose. In fact, the Law on the Prevention of the Integrity of Corruption is in fact the only law that lists in one article all the officials who are obliged to report their assets and so on, that I do not impose, and in some way also for these needs of this law, which is necessary, so I also stress this, of course, lists who is obliged to report their assets. True, we do not define in any other legislation who are all the officials in this country. And since we are talking right now about this proposal that judges are subject to a legal charge and that there is a sufficient limit and a degree where the judge can no longer perform judicial service, of course, I just need to remind myself of a similar proposal that was already in the National Assembly for officials in the previous term, and that the Law and Law Service, like all of them, have actually rejected this thesis if the official goes too far, what the irreparable consequences will be if it is found that no and the official will have to give up not to kill you, in short, because you know all of this matter. [[…]] My purpose was simple and very simple. If something is true for the judges and if it is such a high moral integrity and blah blah blah blah, it also applies to officials. What is the real difference? While a fellow opposition spoke on the committee: neither for the officers nor for the officers, they have each other's logic. They go to elections every four years and that's the best indicator whether they're still good officials or not. But the judges have a permanent mandate, and that's something else. And of course my step forward, thinking in the direction is whether we are now separating the functionaries into a duration of function and is dependent on the length of the function of duration depending on how much you of course can have some integrity, morality and so on. I'll be brief. It seems that we are still very immature in this society, and we still need a very long time to think about what is more than that, because what some feared was that I was fighting to give the judges a legal indictment or not, a judgment, and that it would be a milestone. On the contrary. I would like to see that officials are treated the same way as judges, but it seems that this is not like the coalition, not the minister, not everyone else, or they do not have the power to convince others that this is the case or that it is the time for this to happen. Okay, in another life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I'd like to do a little bit more of the procedure myself. In fact, much has been said in the past, how important it is that laws are not adopted by means of a so-called reduced procedure, no matter what changes are made. If there is change, it is important that we discuss this as widely as possible, for this will also provide a surer satisfaction. See, the harmfulness and inadmissibility of the reduced procedures at the time of Janša's government, when we were taking up individual matters, was very much said. Let me remind you that even Igor Soltes, who was then President of the Court of Auditors, was an independent institution and is today a Member of the European Parliament. Let me tell you what he said at the time: "The rapid adoption of laws creates legal uncertainty and confusion." We can agree with that, but not just when one government is in power, and when another comes, that is no longer the case. Dear Minister Klemenčič, what did you say about this yourself? The public expert debate on individual legislative solutions must never be understood as delaying and opposing the necessary changes. Harmonising the search for good solutions and openness to the opinion of civil society, the professional public and also independent state authorities are guarantees of transparency, limitation of partial bodies, better quality of regulations and tackling corruption risks. In view of your opinion back then, I am asking you whether this means that these changes today represent a corruption risk, a poorer quality of regulation, the lack of transparency of regulation, partial interests and so on. The fact is that you said this when it came to each other's marriages, but today we already have another law before you after the so-called shorter procedure, followed by a few more. I just can't accept it. And speaking of two materials, one was before the courts, and now we're talking about another. I'd like to ask you a question. When you were making changes, how come we didn't get any analysis of the situation to even see where we are? What happens to the so-called commitment to citizens, I stress that the commitment to citizens between the then government of Alenka Bratušek and the Supreme Court was signed? I want to know where we are in this commitment, how far we've come. These are the information and things that are necessary for us to be able to talk about what needs to be changed in laws. And as far as the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned. See, if you are looking earlier at what criteria are somehow to choose personality, skills, right, they are important, but we are talking about judicial function, but nowhere is it defined that the person who performs this function should not be the one who in the past violated human rights and fundamental freedoms or even abused his or her position. It's not like that. Therefore, with the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to define these criteria in concrete terms and not something in general. You know, the word "personal properties" seems to me to be a bit problematic in professional choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. He asked the Mag for a word. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all, I will answer your specific question directly, and this will also bring to light a recurring statement, which is – a recurring obvious not only of you, but also of the United Left – about the type of procedure. This is a Parliament, and it should be possible to say everything that is worthy, true and appropriate. I admit I learned something from that story. From now on, you will very rarely get anything from me through a reduced procedure simply because it is not worth exposing yourself to these critics, even if the conditions for the reduced procedure are given, and here I believe they have been. I would very much like to say the following, or because we have discussed this in a long and broad way on the committee. As your colleague Mrs Iva Dimic said before, and I agree with that, the debate on the committee was good, it was substantive, a lot of professional organisations were there. In my naivety, I thought it was meant for the committee, without the government coming there saying it was all in harmony with the others, and now raise your hands, in that sense. Really, well, it sounds naive again, but that's the way it is, and that's why I didn't take all these amendments negatively. You need to know that now what I'm going to say, why the procedure is short and why we don't have bad conscience and why we think it's about meeting the criteria and that things weren't so reckless. First of all, this is what I am telling my colleague from the United Left, who, of course, is not here, but he was quoting me when I said we were going to ask the people from production. That's exactly what we did. These changes are followed by a survey between hundreds of judges and judges who have supported such solutions, but have not completely undermined them, we will say, the administration – the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, but this is now, and the production of management, according to the household. Second thing. 90% of the solutions in this law, we are now talking about the Judicial Service Act, is Verbatim - I do not know if the right word is, but literally a copy of the proposals of the Council of Justice in response to the recommendations of GRECO. For two years or half a year or so, the working group was composed of representatives of the Council of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Supreme Court, the KPK, the Ministry of Justice at the time. They prepared these things, very similar, but not exactly like them here, and then they went into the drawer. We took it from the drawer for reasons like we said, because it's GRECO. Because, by the way, if I may say what we had in the debate earlier, you know why GRECO, why not the European Union. The European Union and the European Commission regularly quote GRECO reports. Also in the European Commission's last and first anti-corruption report, which covers all countries, GRECO's recommendations regarding Slovenia are also explicitly written as something to be respected. Mr Möderndorfer, your previous government, which has adopted a set of anti-corruption measures, has explicitly stated in point 20 that these provisions should be implemented, these proposals by GRECO and, even in this record, called on the Ministry of Justice to act on behalf of the stakeholders of the working group. Now, at one point it was clear that agreement would not be possible to reach. And here, as Minister, I have taken responsibility for doing what we think is best to put things into discussion, not the debate that has gone on before and has not moved anywhere, but into the process. And I believe, by the way, when we're talking about the shorter procedure, in November we gave it away, today is March, at that time there were intensive procedures, it was intensely written about it in the media because all the possible lobbyists woke up because they saw that it was really happening now. And I believe that's why marriage is better today. Because as long as we meet by working group, we coordinate, it's great. And on the committee in which you were present, a representative of one of the judges said, but we worked well with the previous minister, together we prepared a bunch of solutions, and then he added, and we regret that they never went into the legislative procedure. This is one of the key problems. We run circles, we're happy to talk, but there's no final solution. and here we have taken this next step, which is minimal, which is without prejudice to any human rights that poses no corruption risk, because these provisions cannot in themselves, and which in no way undermines the relationship between these individual builders. All that you're talking about, both in the coalition and in the opposition, and we're still waiting and we're talking about it. We have clauses with the Supreme Court, with the Council of Justice, and therefore, in the normative programme by the end of the year, there is once again this change, but not about that, but about those things where it will actually have to be put on a completely open stage. Once again, it's about reduced procedures. Direct answer to your question. I am still behind what I have written and what you quoted as a letter from the Commission to prevent corruption, with regard to warning about the danger of reduced procedures. But it wasn't that, and I think it was good of Soltes that I would take him into the dam, that he wasn't a general observation, but he was in specific laws, and you know what that meant. It referred to the amendment of spatial legislation because you have established new conditions for black construction after a reduced procedure and the legalisation of line constructions. You know, it's a place for me not to repeat it now, it's touched every individual and so on. The second thing we've warned you about is the Real Estate Act, how you can sell something and how you can't sell something. However, there were no two and a half years of expert coordination of the working groups. After all, in one year of your rule at the time, February 2012 until March 2013, you had 19 regular procedures, 45 reduced procedures and 40 urgent procedures. The government of Alenka Bratušek was slightly better, but not much, had 35 regular procedures and 43 reduced 39 emergency procedures. I know, now you can tell me, like you started, you'll beat us to it, I promise you, because I say that I learned something from this, although I believe that laws are also because we put them into this process and because they've experienced such a public response today, and that's why I said it's not a mini judicial reform, it's not an expression and I didn't. And the answer about your integration is because Mr Möderndorfer said that apparently the Minister didn't like it either, that all the officials would be treated the same, I mean, you didn't say clearly, you said that maybe I didn't like it either. It is, I would also support that law you were talking about regarding legal charges and charges against other officials. In my jurisdiction, unfortunately, there are judicial officials, who I believe and therefore I stand that they are different from the other officials and that they should not be officials at all, and they are officials, because someone wanted to throw them in the same basket about the pay system, but they are old and the stories we know. If you tell an English judge or an American that he is an official, he will not react well, but in Slovenia they are just judicial officials. In this regard, we have taken a step forward, because you know for every public servant that the Law on Public Administration stipulates that you cannot be appointed to an official office if you are in criminal proceedings, you cannot become a lawyer if you are in criminal proceedings, but you can become a judge, you can become a state prosecutor, you can become an MP, a minister, a secretary of state. And that's wrong. I propose, together with the government and the coalition, that we sort out what we now have on the table, and this is about judges and state prosecutors. And that's the last thing I want to say, of course, this law is, because the conditions for judges and prosecutors in the appointment apply one criterion for others, of course it also applies to the State Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is Xenia Root Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's proposal for the Judicial Service Act, in my opinion, enforces and further enhances transparency in proceedings. It also ensures uniformity and predictability and transparency of the procedures themselves, not only transparency, but also the objectivity of these procedures. For the provision of the criterion and also provides for still the jurisdiction of the Council of Justice, which is the only right to make a substantive decision by means of a procedure which is transparent once again, and predictable and transparent. This introduces security, stability on what we have already discussed in previous discussions. The fact that this remains under the jurisdiction of the Council of Justice is only right and only natural to judge substantively, by carrying out these procedures. It is true, however, that these must be as predictable as possible, on clear criteria. And I would also like to refer to this debate by the Minister myself, because this seems very important to me, and I think that we all agree on this point. Speaking of which, I have also discussed in your debates when you referred to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on possible constitutional dispute or questions related to a particular opinion and, above all, to the fact that it is now also required as a criterion that there is no legal charge against a candidate. This constitutional dispute, referred to here by the Legislative and Legal Service, refers therefore to the Constitutional Court's judgment, which is, of course, one of these decisions, which is not yet bound to judges, but is linked to notaries, which is essential. And the judges in this context are something completely different. And another important aspect of this constitutional decision is that, here in its substantively separate opinion, it specifically points out that running for a public office is not a right, but a privilege. And in terms of various potential corrupt risks, we must be particularly careful about our privileges. For this reason, these privileges require such regulation and restrictions. And today is the first step towards achieving this. However, it is a privilege for him to draw not only his reputation but also his many others. And compared to others, colleague Jani pointed out somehow to officials and employees, yes, I also agree here that in this regard too, we should say that today's step is to align this position. No criteria are available for a wide range of public servants. Therefore, it does not have to apply at all in the event that a criminal charge has been brought against it, which is prosecuted under an official obligation. Any one of them. And I think it is right that we take such a position when we talk about judges. And that is why I believe that today this proposal before us will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister mentioned that the debate was very effective on the Committee on Justice. I must say that I miss my colleague Gorenak who is actively involved in the debates of the Committee on Justice. Now, about the criteria for the selection of judges. Yeah, I think so, but I'm sure the judges are a different category from the public officials. I remember when they were trying to get them in because of the pay system, into the public officials system, already in those pay grade, there was a problem, because the judges were somehow there at the 47th salary, which I mentioned once before, compressed, but the judicial function is a function that represents just one of the branches of government, separate branches, the judiciary knows the authorities. More importantly, the criteria for entering the judicial function are different from those for other branches of government than for other officials. The first is that they have to meet very high legal professional standards. And now these standards will be further defined in the Judicial Service Act. But one of these standards is also a legal examination of the state and, of course, it is a very high professional competence of these candidates. Therefore, we cannot compare the judge with a Member or with another public official of the executive authority, since the conditions for entry into this function are significantly different. And it's also a different purpose for a public official. The judge shall decide whether or not the law has been properly applied in a particular case. I agree, however, that it may also be necessary for other officials to define similar criteria, because it seems to me that, for example, a Member's function could be performed by someone who is not being charged with a legal charge because it is a trustworthy person, and this criterion would also be acceptable. But today we are talking about another law, namely the Judicial Service Act. I also said in my presentation of the Group's position that this was an explicit proposal by the Supreme Court to give such a criterion, because I cannot imagine anyone – if I am in criminal proceedings to run for judge. It's not working! You can't make a decision about the proper application of the law, stand there in a court of law and even run for office, say, but now I'm running for office, but I'm facing some kind of criminal procedure. These two don't go together. And I repeat, there's no one to run for office, even if it wasn't written down. But it is right that it is written down and that we set such high standards also for the judicial function, especially because for others who are part of justice, this criterion already exists. And I'm sure the judges don't mind either, and they agree with that criterion. As for the criteria for determining whether a candidate for judicial office has violated human rights. Yeah, and if he was re-elected, he couldn't break them, but if he wasn't a judge, right, when he entered court. He was not a judge and could not judge and could not violate human rights. Or will someone just, I don't know, find out because he got the wrong look at someone who was violating human rights? But this criterion is already contained in all of these criteria for judicial function, which are already and are being introduced by this law, so there is no need to introduce this proposed amendment as a special criterion for human rights violations, so it does not need to be introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, at least we're talking about what a politician should be. And I'm not gonna talk about it anymore because I've already said my thing. But I'll discuss it at the point where the Minister spoke about the procedure. And I didn't want to talk, but because I can see there's been a misunderstanding or confusion, which is actually what we're talking about when we're talking about a procedure. Minister, for the first time, it is obvious to you, by the Members, that you have gone into a reduced procedure, especially because if someone does, then Members know damn well what a reduced procedure is. This does not mean that you do not know what a reduced procedure is, but you did not say that your basic proposal was to go even through an emergency procedure, which is even more terrible. And then you were stopped in the coalition at least so much that you followed a reduced procedure. You keep saying, "We've given up November," so that's enough time. Now for the layman's public, because they don't know what a necessary procedure is, what a reduced procedure is, and what a regular procedure is. I guarantee you that I will take you through the regular procedure within two months of marriage – if you understand what I was going to tell you. However, the powers and steps that you can take in a reduced procedure or in a regular procedure are others. And that's the difference that we want to tell you that if the speed was meant to be, then we could still go on a regular basis. But it is true that the levers should be made within the coalition. And the first man of the coalition, it is said, the leader of the largest parliamentary group, should have a whip as far as the proceedings are concerned. But we would follow the regular procedure, we would have a general discussion, the amendments would be put in the right way, there would be no need for night meetings, in short, everything would go pretty elegant. And so much for advice, Minister, if you want to take anything quickly, do it on a regular basis, just ask yourself how to get it out in two months. So much so that there won't be so much deception about why it's a reduced procedure and why it's a regular procedure. But as far as the category is concerned, that we will not get things wrong, yes, we have three branches of executive power. Three branches of authority, I'm sorry. We have enforcement, legislation and judicial and, of course, everyone's jurisdiction. But if anyone, then leaders or representatives of all three branches of government, should have the same degree of integrity, it is necessary to know when and when a matter can be done. If you want, I'll tell you again and again, but I hope you understand what I'm trying to say to you, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u104	President, thank you so much for your word. Minister, I'm so glad you called, I had a feeling at first that maybe we're not the right people to talk to you, because I'd like to hear an answer earlier. Let me start where I ended up before, because I didn't get an answer. What I really want to know is what the so-called commitment to citizens is also about the amendments to these laws that we are considering today. Look, we're changing laws in the field of justice. I answer what you said earlier about the so-called environmental law and the difference in procedures, why one would be suitable for short-term adoption, but not environmental. Look, there's been people on the street for over six months. Because they warn that there is something very wrong in our justice system. Dear Minister, I don't remember when the topic of environmental law was to be people on the streets, so you'll find it difficult to convince me that an intervention, whatever it is in the justice system, is not important in law or that it's not as important for citizens. Last but not least, you didn't come forward for almost every act of marriage after a reduced procedure. You know, almost every marriage affects people's lives. Almost everyone. To some more, to some less, but because the laws are intended for citizens and citizens, they interfere with their lives, their rights, and ultimately their obligations. So I'm glad you found out that there was no reason for you to go into a reduced procedure. And there's one more thing. You mentioned that it was very important because there were many different audiences on the committee, especially professional ones, and that you considered this to be something positive. Of course, I can agree with you that the debate on the committee was broad, as far as quantity is concerned. You know, as far as the adopted or the fruitfulness of it is concerned, the amendments you are making today show that, above all, the opinions or concerns of the professional public gathered there have not been taken into account at all. They didn't even consider it. To a large extent, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was not taken into account. So no matter how well we can talk, how well we have discussed, let us stay there what you said — we talk a lot, we talk, we talk, we talk, we do nothing. Somehow that was the way the debate sounded. Perhaps there is something else that I would like to point out here, which I thought was very important in this debate as such. You were saying what should be in these criteria. I think you've reopened these convictions, convicted individuals, I don't know what age, six months, 12 months. I agree, absolutely, let's put in yet, that no one may also be in some of the functions that violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the mother of all laws. Let's be exact, and let's write these things in. We'll see what happens then. I just don't think we should have double standards when it comes to us or when it's not about us. Once again, Minister, I hope to have concrete answers to the specific question. Just something else for the intermezza. How fruitful our debate was, too, is the statement by the distinguished minister that your coalition did not even know what the negotiations had been before. It was said that we were all invited to some kind of coordination, and the biggest party representative didn't even know what it was. In short, in a way, we were literally surprised there because we were supposed to be invited to some coordination that, of course, was not at all. All of this means that speed. This speed is certainly not good, especially when we talk about justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I apologize for forgetting to answer a specific question about the undertaking earlier. I am not going to answer you on a substantive basis right now, because it is an extensive answer, and also because this answer — I don't know if it's just you, but certainly from your parliamentary group — has already been received. Several times it has been discussed through the parliamentary questions, written also, as they have referred, we are from the Ministry, statistics, frankly, I do not know now about all those points, but it is one large part, but not everything, perhaps even insufficient. Part of the commitment was progress, part of the commitment was not carried out by the previous government, part of the current government, not because there was no finance, part of the commitment, part of the criteria failed to execute the courts because it was a lot of ambitious things. However, I think that the step forward was very important, which is also reflected in the statistical reports on the occasion of the new judicial year, which took place 14 years ago, and the Court presented these results. So we can send it back to you later. As far as it's concerned, let's just be precise that somehow I don't want to talk to you, and that's really not what you need to talk about, because that's not the case. And I didn't say you were looking forward to finding out that there was no reason to short-circuit the procedure. I said I learned something from it. That's the difference. Nor is it true, in my opinion, that the views may differ, that all this debate and all these associations have not contributed to anything, quite the contrary. After investing and all this time in all these three months – and I regret that we do not have these abilities, as Mr Möderndorfer has, organisational and business – but we are learning, in my opinion, that after a regular procedure we can also get the law through, but in all this time we have also gotten back to the ministry with all these associations, which everyone has said, by the way. Even those who were unloving to us said that they thanked the Ministry because they had been given the opportunity and so on, and many things were then changed, but not everything, because you can never please everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I no longer see the request made, so I am closing the debate on Article 6. And we are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u108	Maybe I'm a little clairvoyant, I knew it was my turn. A little joke, I apologize for checking in too fast. Look, this amendment also somehow just wants to specify the provisions. I think what he wants to make concrete is welcome for our justice system. Here on the balcony today we are accompanied by a younger generation. How are we going to tell them that in this country we guarantee human rights in judicial proceedings, if the judge does or does not do something or if he has violated human rights in his work, is not on the criteria. It's just not on the scales. These are important things. Also in view of what I have pointed out earlier, 600 violations, which have been found after this analysis – some of you agree with it, some of you do not – in the European Court of Justice 300 violations of the Constitution of Slovenia, human rights violations. I don't think such an addition to the criteria can be an obstacle to accepting it. Why not show that we really want to make changes in this area? That's not why the budget will suffer. Not here. Calling for not enough resources, etc., here is simply not it. Here is only the will: whether we want to make a difference in this area or whether we still have a justice system so on one reserve that when necessary, it will take care of something that has made it impossible for someone to run in the same way, if I can call it an election, put him in jail, and then when the whole thing falls - God has mercy on where it is. That's right. But these are bad messages, colleagues and colleagues. Today is me, tomorrow is you. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDINATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE COURT OF REGISTRATION, REDUCE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u110	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! This is a change of law affecting a court register that has not been amended in 20 years. It has some technical corrections, some adjustments to today's time and one very important adjustment to today's time. The Court Register, together with the Business Register Act, now that this amendment is adopted, will allow everyone to look online at the business register, to see who owns any company, who, how companies can be chained, where the supervisor is in this society and so on. This amendment, which we have proposed, has been accompanied by a huge amount of dust, serious as well as argumentated debates. There has been an information officer who, at the Ministry of Justice in general, as far as possible, is following, when not, because it is a matter of different perspectives. This proposal was strongly opposed by the Law-Legal Service, if it is a possible counter-constitutional solution because it is an intervention in personal data. At the Ministry of Justice, not out of some kind of arbitration or arrogance, but in due consideration and in the very precise face of arguments, we have a different opinion. Such a solution is known by most Baltic countries, known by many Scandinavian countries, also by some countries in our neighbourhood, a remote neighbourhood, perhaps a little more Slovakia, Poland, and finally Britain. It is a matter of conceptual nature between privacy and transparency. When you first, colleague Bah, referred to the youth up there, and I will call her as well – it's basically about the ones upstairs. It's the ones upstairs. Do you think they know what Ipes is and where you're going with the court register and so on? It's about being able to go online as you can on Google today to look at who has the company, where Google does it, but they can't look at how many companies someone might want to work with. Those who will call him to whiten their first apartment when they have it, whether it's trustworthy or not, and so on. That's why. Which Mr Möderndorfer will probably point out, because he's held my word three times when I said at the board meeting, if not today, but he'll be in ten years. I hope it will be today, because of them, if not, but it will be in ten years – yes, when they come. But it is a matter of transparency. Today, as a citizen, you are stripped naked. If you go to the social work center, all the data from you gets from the state. Today, for each of you who has real estate or for each of us can see whether it has air conditioning in the house or how many windows it has, when it has restored the roof because it is publicly available on GURS. But you can't, but you can't look at how many companies someone has. You can look, and that's true, and it's not against the Constitution, only if you pay two and a half grand because this data is available today, but it has to be paid for. And that's all it's about in the final stages. I have no doubt that the debate on this will be interesting. After a very thorough consideration, we have decided to put this in, because we believe it will contribute to greater legal certainty, to greater transparency in the business environment. Of course, it won't save the chain of businesses, but it will limit it. Of course, it will not mean that citizens will do this job instead of the police because it has nothing to do with it. However, it will allow consumers greater security, greater security and trust in business relations and in the final stage – well, for now this will be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Justice is held at the 2nd session of the 6th session of the Committee on Justice. 2. 2015 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. In addition to the legislative proposal, the Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, further clarification from the Ministry of Justice to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 9. 2. 2015 and Supplement to the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia of 16. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendments to the bill were tabled by opposition and coalition parliamentary groups and the amendment of the Committee to Article 9 of the bill was proposed. In the view of the Ministry of Justice as the applicant, the proposed amendment aims to ensure greater transparency and transparency of the data entered in the Register of Justice in a way that, in addition to obtaining basic data on the registration entities, everyone can also have online access via the Apes website to the data in which the registration entities are designated by a person as a member of the management or control bodies, or a procurator, and to data on ownership links. This strengthens the fundamental principle of the Registry of Justice, the principle of the public, which is a function of the protection of legal traffic and of the participants who conclude a business relationship with an economic operator. The publication and public access to these data shall prevent the possibility of conflicts of interest and facilitate the exercise of liability in the event of damage. Legal certainty and the functioning of economic legal transport also require the provision of a clear and transparent structure of companies and their links. It is estimated that the public interest in the publication of these data is expressed, the dissemination of data to the public through the provision of search and representation of the role of individuals in the various registration entities is in accordance with Article 38 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the Personal Data Protection Act. Prior to this, it has already been pointed out that all these data have already been made public, but only the possibility of individual searches is added to the individual registration entity by means of the proposed amendment. The representative of the ZPS had substantive reservations of a constitutional and systemic nature and therefore pointed out that the proposed amendments to the law extend to all entities in the register, irrespective of their status and regardless of ownership, thus free access for each interested party would also constitute access to data on private law entities and not only public companies, but also to entities of natural persons not subject to public spheres. According to the ZPS, the proposed law, together with the introduction and explanation, does not remove doubts about the constitutional consistency of the proposed solutions. So far, protected data will be made widely available through websites to everyone, which is certainly an excessive intervention in privacy and the protection of personal data. In her presentation, the Council of State also presented the written opinion of the Commission of the Council of State on national regulation and the proposal of the law in principle supports and recalls that the proposed amendments constitute a major interference in the protection of personal data and therefore expects constitutionality to be respected in a way that will allow for the transparency of the data of economic companies and other legal persons who are registered in the Register of Justice and who operate in legal transport while ensuring the protection of personal data and the restriction of access to them. The information officer highlighted the substantive reservations to the draft law and stressed the need to respect the fundamental principles of urgency and proportionality, by which only those data should be disclosed and in such a way as to achieve the objective, namely the security of legal traffic, taking into account also the human right to privacy. In the debate, opposition Members opposed the short-term adoption of the proposed novel and the proposed amendments, which did not follow the guidelines of the ZPS and the Information Commissioner. In their view, too, the excessive disclosure of personal data discourages foreign investors, and the applicant should therefore strengthen trust and honesty in the business world in a different way. The coalition Members supported the bill as it brings transparency and security of legal transport. In favour of the proposed amendments, the fact that the data under consideration are already publicly available today is a matter for everyone to decide voluntarily to enter the business world. At the end of the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, considered and adopted the amendments of the coalition groups and the amendment of the Committee to Article 9. He then voted on all the articles of the law together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am behind this stage again to present to you the opinion or position of the Group of Social Democrats. On today's parliamentary debate day, we conclude with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Judicial Register Act. While this is a short law with nine articles, we estimate that there are significant changes, as everyone will be given access to the various data collected in one place. Until every such attempt, we Social Democrats are held back, it is difficult to accept the fact that every entrepreneur involved in legal affairs is in the same way assessed as a potential, kind of, fraud; and this is due to media-resistance cases of business abuse. Based on the basic objective aimed at greater transparency and transparency of data on companies as well as other legal persons who are registered in a legal register, these solutions make it possible to access data through the internet portal of Apes. All market participants should therefore have access to this data when entering the business council and in business relations. In doing so, participants who engage in legal transactions with persons who have been the subject of a register of justice would be armed with data on both the founders, their legal representatives, supervisors, in short, all natural persons expressing the right of legal persons, and we know that abstract creations with relevant assets are, in fact, capable of carrying out this function only through natural persons having a certain status in those business entities. The applicant also assesses that the work of the courts will be facilitated or burdened by the solutions adopted. Perhaps this solution is acceptable to many at this time, because it is often referred to as abuse in business and also as a play by all participants, as well as by countries. Social Democrats believe that when collecting personal data in one place and entering these bases to everyone by simple keys, let's say by name and surname, however, caution must be exercised. Nor is it possible to overlook the warnings of the information officer. In the discussion, the information officer warned on her work body that Slovenia would use these escape solutions in Europe. It also drew attention to a number of legal practices and even drew attention to individual solutions in other EU Member States. Whatever excessive interference with personal data, we need to be sensitive, and we need to weigh when data is carefully selected and accumulated and placed in the public eye.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you. The position of the Group The United Left will be presented by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The main objective of the Law on the Court Register is to increase transparency. In the United Left, we are pleased that the minister has a similar position on this subject as we do. We have been committed to increasing transparency at all levels, which is part of the democratisation of all levels of society, which, of course, we are committed to as socialists. We support all the solutions that go this way. At the same time, another aspect needs to be pointed out: the procedure for drafting and adopting a bill that follows a welcome objective has some bitter taste. In the United Left, we do not agree with the Minister's way of acting, because we are convinced that good solutions cannot be prepared quickly, so to speak overnight, without the professional and interested public – therefore untransparent. Proposals for laws that are prepared recklessly and quickly end up in the hands of constitutional judges, who repeal the positive and urgently needed amendments. This can also be prevented from writing proposals thoughtfully, in cooperation with the professionally interested public, and solutions are prepared in such a way as to maintain a constitutional judgment. And even if the polls were done, it is good that these polls were then submitted to the administration, if we call it that, to re-examine them. The legal change in the business and judicial register will not solve the key problems. Its aims are good, but it is a drop in the sea to solve problems of abuse by chaining businesses, straw companies and selling businesses, allowing for the fraud and illegal exploitation of workers. Labour rights will be violated until employees have a word in decision-making in companies until we start making changes in the direction of labour management or economic democracy until we go in the direction of systemic solutions. Last but not least, it is now possible to obtain data on offenders through different pay bases. Nevertheless, has the situation of infringement of the most basic labour rights improved in recent years? Solutions need to be drawn up systematically to address the causes and prevent harmful practices that constitute erosion of labour rights. The fact that the public has access to company chain data and all related data is, of course, welcome. But that's not enough. This same country, which will now allow public access to the business register, has enabled or allowed raspberries and major tycoons to establish businesses on a day-to-day basis. It did not have the desired effects in the past, either, and only to increase transparency. The publication of taxable persons not accompanied by a system-wide solution to prevent such practices did not have the desired effects. Nor did the desired effects have an insight into the contributions paid to workers, since capital owners still make extreme use of the most vulnerable and do not provide them with a decent payment or regularly pay their contributions. If changes were to be made thoughtfully, with the inclusion of the public, union representatives would put forward a number of proposals that would be more effective in preventing these extreme exploitation practices – if the government is at all serious interest in this, of course. We therefore support every step in the direction of greater transparency and democracy in the United Left, but we find ourselves in an extremely serious dilemma when solutions to strengthen transparency are implemented in a non-transparent way. Although this is a step in the right direction, we rightly fear that exploitative practices will not be reduced. In the next steps, however, we expect the Government to continue its measures against the chaining of businesses and the establishment of straw companies. An example of how to resolve this problem with legislation can be found in neighbouring Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The principle of integrity and integrity in civil law relations is a fundamental principle on which business in the economy must also be based. The business of economic operators must be based on the mutual trust of business partners, and the State must establish and ensure appropriate mechanisms that prevent and sanction abuses. Is that so? In recent years, we have witnessed a number of cases where entrepreneurs open a company and do some business through it. When debts are collected in the transaction account, companies open a new company and operate further through a new company, and in the previous company they leave behind debts, unpaid workers, unpaid taxes and contributions to the state, as well as a number of creditors who lose money and hope to be paid at any time. They often find themselves in bankruptcy. Such abuses shall, as a rule, remain unpunished, on the grounds that the choice of a business partner and the conclusion of a business is a business risk burdening each individual entity, natural or legal person. In a given case, what can we do to limit such abuses if they cannot be prevented? In any event, it is one of the possibilities of ensuring access to the data entered in the register of public records and in which the company data and the legally relevant information on those companies are entered, to everyone and to an unlimited extent. The principle of the public is one of the basic principles of the Judicial Register Act and the proposal of the Act under consideration today applies this principle. Such a solution is necessary in terms of public interest, which is in greater security of legal transport. It is also important in terms of ensuring an appropriate business environment for the economy. Therefore, before entering into a business relationship with another entity, any business entity will be able to easily verify who is the founder and how many companies are involved in these roles. The data of the business register will also be able to verify for itself whether individual companies are insolvent. This will also result in the exclusion of unfair founders and their companies from the market. Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register because we believe that this is a measure that will bring more order and legal certainty into our business environment. At the same time, we explain that we do not agree with the information officer's warnings that the proposal for that law will be inadmissible and unduly affect the personal data of the individual. By entering the business world where each individual enters voluntarily, the level of privacy of each individual decreases or becomes more widely accessible. In our belief, honest individuals will not be harmed by such widespread access to their information.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u120	I have more to say in this law than in the previous ones, and I must say that, unlike before, if we have discussed laws that have touched the narrow circle of professions, judges and others, this is a law that practically touches every man in this country who just thinks he will open one company. You know, now I'm going to make it very simple. But whenever we're talking about transparency, whenever we're talking about hunting tycoons and bastards, I have to say that we're all going to unify very quickly and say that we need to implement very quickly, I don't know what else, just to catch each other and that we're all going to be honest, etc. But you forget one thing, at the time of the Internet, and when personal data are published on the Internet, even later, when you get confused or realize that maybe this move didn't give these effects and those results, of course, it's hard to draw back something when everyone's already copied everything and everyone knows about you and you're undressed, like the Minister said, naked, naked, sorry – I say naked. What's the real problem? The problem is that the Ministry has not shown any public interest in this law to date. There is no public interest to introduce such a system. Several decisions of the Constitutional Court have more than made it clear that access to personal data, disclosure of personal data can only be done if we show public interest. Until today, the minister has failed to prove it. Until today. Why open something we can access anyway? True, it is necessary to pay, but I apologize — how far have we achieved? The Information Officer has very clearly warned how much we have achieved by publishing taxpayers' taxes. How many more tides have this been made into the budget? Not much; but what happened. On the website we have published all the personal data I don't know how many citizens and now everyone is gloating over this personal data, all of a sudden they're bad guys because they couldn't afford to pay those taxes because of the economic crisis or which other steps they could take. Not to say that there are companies up there that are not at all anymore, taxes that we will never be able to recover that any normal government should have written down long ago, and that there is one real debt that can be recovered or recovered in some way. What is of course important about this law is that it is done in direct harm. Today I say, because we will all be listening to discussions today on how to cut once, how to establish or not to establish public interest, but how to act transparently and so on. All I'm saying is that this law has crossed that border of good taste and personally as a citizen, and I will not be able to accept it as a Member. I've already predicted that on the board. This law and the law associated with this, the Business Register Act – I will go to the end. That's what they say. I'm going to demand a constitutional judgment for him, too. In fact, we just can't let ourselves play with personal data. I believe that the Minister wants to achieve a kind of breakthrough here, a change or as my fellow Members say that somewhere and once it is necessary to start. I'm asking you nicely, not with personal information, in this way! There is also some proportionality to be done. You know, we all refer to Scandinavian countries as having this arranged there, but that's where they have this balanced. It is easy to access certain data on one side, but it also carefully protects and weighs personal data. And second, more important than that, it will cause irreparable damage and zero results than what we want to achieve. To change to work to hunt a tycoon and those who multiply their companies, but everyone who has multiple companies is not yet a bastard in this country. Thank you very much. We're not going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Mir Cerar will be presented by Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. The Court Register shall be a public book intended to record and publish information on the legally relevant facts concerning companies and other entities of registration in the Court Register. The purpose of the public publication of the legally relevant facts on registration entities is to protect legal traffic and to provide a set of information necessary for the legal efficient and secure legal business of all stakeholders engaged in business with economic companies and other entities registered in the Court Register. The basic function of the Registry of the Court is the public publication of data on registration entities which are relevant for legal traffic. This is also an acceptable purpose for the management and processing of identification data in the Court Registry. The protected category protected by the public publication of data in the Registry of Justice is therefore the security of legal traffic. The public principle, which is also inseparably linked to the principle of trust in the Registry of the Court of Justice, extends to all the data entered in the Register of Justice and to all the documents in the file of documents, and therefore everyone has the right to request access to the data entered in the Register without having to demonstrate legal interest. The public publication of relevant data on economic operators, while ensuring that they are true, is essential for the smooth functioning of economic business traffic. However, as relevant information, in our view, the information on the role of the shareholder in other companies and the information on the members of the management and control authorities and procurators is of course considered relevant. Such data shall already be kept and published in the Registry of the Court of Justice and may be obtained by means of a proposal for a law on the basis of a summary. In particular, it is pointed out that all data from the business register, and thus also judicial as part of the business register, are already fully publicly available and also under the provisions of the Public Information Access Act. Apes can thus market the entire content of the business register and sell in machine-readable form. The new law provides access to personal data on those entities that create the will of the company and make the most important decision regarding the operation of the company. These are entities which are civil and criminally responsible for the legitimate functioning of companies, for data on persons who have voluntarily and independently decided to enter the business sphere, for legal representation and whose personal data have already been made public, publicly published, and in the Court Registry and whose role in companies is essential for the operation of a business entity. To ensure the efficient and transparent functioning of economic legal transport, it is necessary to ensure the clear and transparent structure of the economy and the transparency of the existence of other links between different economic operators. Only in this way can individuals be provided with sufficient transparency and stability in legal transport and the business environment. For this reason, we will support the proposal of the Judicial Register Act in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u124	Hello, distinguished young representatives! Amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register are to be dealt with in a reduced procedure. It is supposed to be less complex changes and additions, following one of the basic principles of the Registry, the principle of the public, which is the function of protection of legal traffic. Today, we have already stressed twice the urgency and need for reforms in the field of justice. But the actual ones that will eliminate abuses in justice, those that will put Slovenian justice at European starting points, at European ethical standards, at European expertise, at the average European spending of funds, at the average number of European judges. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we agree, in principle, with proposals that pursue the objective of greater transparency, public transparency and transparency of the data entered in the Register of Justice. We cannot and cannot say that the proposed solutions proposed by the Government are those that will address possible misuses of data in relation to the public and possibly unacceptable use of these data. However, we cannot agree with the adoption process in the SDS Group of Members. The proposed amendments are not coordinated with the interested professional public, for example, they are not coordinated with the information officer. Let me put it this way, when the information officer comes to your aid, her opinion is sacred. When it's not useful, of course you ignore it. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service also highlighted the unconstitutional nature of individual provisions. The fact is that data from the Court Registry are already publicly available today. It should also be pointed out that everyone chooses voluntarily to establish legal persons or business entities. However, it should also be pointed out that the conditions for the establishment of legal persons and the expectations that such an entity may expect upon entry into business relations must be known in advance. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed an amendment to supplement access to data and documents relating to the period from 1. 2. 2008 onwards, allowing them to be transformed into electronic form. This, however, would allow direct electronic access to these data in an individual application. Of course, we will not support the law as such, for I have said that its adoption procedure is at stake. Previously, the minister said that the young generation must be interested in what they can find on the Internet and that this will also be possible for them. But it is also right to say that as young as all other generations worry: Do these entities take into account the law, or do law enforcement work, or do laws actually live, or are those who unjustifiably absorb property actually behind bars, or are they walking on our streets? That's what burdens our society. Our society is interested in capital invested in various oasis. Not to be surprised, dear colleague, but this is the problem of this country and by actually doing more on the system where criminals will actually be where they need to be, then we can talk about contributing to changes in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you. Let me point out, however, that according to the usual practice, it does not welcome viewers, not here in the hall, nor in front of television screens. Now the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia has the floor. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, co-worker! As the main objective of the novel, the applicant cites the achievement of greater transparency in data on the company and other legal persons who are registered in the register of justice and who are engaged in legal proceedings. Thus, a novel through an online portal allows anyone public access to information on whether and where legal entities are designated a member of a management or control body or procurator and founder or associate. Access and search for data will be enabled by using a combination of identity signs of the person, as is proposed in the new Business Register Act, which will be considered in the coming week. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we support these changes. Of course, we have also listened to all the comments on the proposed arrangements, in particular by the Information Officer and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The fact is that this interferes with the constitutionally protected right to the protection of personal data, but in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we believe that this intervention is necessary in order to prevent abuses in legal traffic, which unfortunately we are witnessing too often. Our position is that the public has the right to access information that is important for the safety of legal traffic. For we believe that participants who enter into a business-legal relationship with a particular economic operator must be informed of the status of that entity and, to the greatest extent possible, must be protected from abuse. In addition to this new method of obtaining the data mentioned above, it is no longer necessary to have an existing regime governing access to so-called protected data. This will also put a strain on the courts, which, under the applicable rules for obtaining data from the Court Registry, issue thousands of decisions annually. In the Desus Group, we believe that ensuring public access to these data will also help to effectively ensure the objective of preventing conflict of interest, and it will also make it easier to exercise possible liability for compensation. I would also like to point out here that this information is already publicly available. We must also be aware of the fact that human rights holders to the protection of personal data by nature are not legal persons and not natural persons who carry out business activities when it comes to data relating to the exercise of this activity, as stated by the Constitutional Court in one of its decisions. In the Desus Group, we support the proposaler's efforts to establish clear and transparent structures of companies and the links between different companies. In recent years, we have witnessed too many controversial business practices of the so-called chain of companies and the setting up of straw directors, leading mainly to damage to the creditors and workers of a particular company. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u128	Your Honor, after the amendment of this law, of course, it will be possible to look into all those that have somehow been entered into the record since 1. 2. 2008 For all those before this it will not be possible, for this way will still be the old procedure when the application is due and then the data will be obtained. But the data won't be on the Internet. So we're making big differences. We're making big differences. That is why we want to ease this problem with this amendment at least so much, because it is only about equality before the law in that it would allow this amendment to allow when the applicant requests information about a particular business entity and they are not published that the service will then turn this data into an electronic form and then allow direct access. This, of course, will not mean much work at once, but gradually. But if we want to have the entire register in so-called electronic form once again, you certainly cannot oppose this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll try to be brief. First of all, as far as the amendment is concerned. To be honest, I would support him if he could be executed. The problem is that – as you know, I believe you know – there is no information on this data in Ipes and in the Court Registry. For example, we used to have similar cases about our supervisor. I wish it had been public since 1990 or even a few years earlier. Here it is a matter of proportionality, although in principle it is a good proposal. I would like to say one more thing, which I think is also important, given that we have heard not only from the opposition but also from the coalition Members a lot of personal data talks and so on. It may sound a little too personal again, but since I'm here as an official and I'm just like myself, I've been working a lot of my life to protect personal data and communication privacy. Only if you go to COBISS and write my name, will you see that I have written almost the most articles in this area, which I have ever written, and I am a co-author of the larger books, and even with Professor Sturm I am a co-author of the constitutional commentator in the work of protecting privacy. I have not changed this view in the sense that personal data is not some sacrament that needs to be very protected in general in a digitised society, only in my deep conviction and partly in the conviction of the Constitutional Court, and I will quote that later, but we have lost the compass. On the one hand, personal information where it means something because it means protecting the self-upgradation of a person in its essence, where personal data originates: family, health, mutual relations, education – and so on. [[Incomprehensible]] On the other hand, we are increasing the protection of personal data and now it will sound ridiculous – capitalists. I've said several times in the past, but now a little has changed in recent years, a number of years have been easier in criminal proceedings to get a phone call from a suspected drug dealer for six months than to get information on who owns an account in Liechtenstein. Property has become a god and lies about having his personal information. In international practice, including constitutional law, it is considered that the greatest damage to the rule of law in general was in some way done by the decision of the Supreme Court of America 100 years ago, where it was written that the corporation had rights. This results in everything else – money talks, it follows that the financing of election campaigns is all of a sudden equal to freedom of speech, for example, and so on. What do I mean in the final phase? Let us return to the roots, in this digitized society, to the last barricades, we must protect man in our privacy when he does something that is intended for privacy! If you walk naked in your bathroom, you have a different expectation of privacy than if you walk naked on the street. Today, if you go into politics, if you go to college, if you go into any other relationship outside, you give up a lot of privacy, and that's the same thing if you go into business! You need to be aware of this, and it's not just that the amount of personal information about this is being collected about you. Just what company you have and where you're a supervisor. Here we have legitimately different views, I have stayed only because I do not agree to the thesis that, for the first time, we destroy those personal data in the noble sense of the word, and for the second time because this law does not mean this – with due respect, Mr Möderndorfer – that everyone who sets up a company is a tycoon or a bastard. Of course not! Everyone who opens a bank account is absolutely not a bastard and so on; but sometimes bank secrecy has been something sacred, now, thank God, it hasn't been for years. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you very much. You know where the problem is – the problem is when the constitution was adopted. I say quite often, I repeat that we have put personal property before the public interest because of some personal traumas from the past, when it has not been protected in private, and now it has become practically the first. In fact, whatever you're doing in the public interest today, you're running into a private problem, and always a private person has almost the right to do more than anything. And it takes procedures and I don't know what else to do before you do anything. So much for when the minister said it was so private. As far as this law is concerned, however, the fact that three different things are being struck. One is the concept that someone represents, the other is the personal view that those who deal with this matter have, and if you have the power and influence to change it, it's all the more important. But the third is, of course, the goal of what we want to achieve with this. It is precisely because it is a digital sphere where we know how to deal with this data – and I have debated on the committee several times in this direction that those who have now served on the basis of these personal data will now serve even better because we are giving them a literal gift because what they are now paying two and a half euros or not two and a half, they have given little less to buy whole bases, pull them down, pay them once a year with information agents, and then sell up-to-date packages and offers, so that they can come up with some commercially useful data so that big companies can work with small companies and so on. But I can't get rid of the feeling that this is also about voyeurism. We also open the door on one side to all those who have been unable to access it until now, but now they will access it for a joke. Tomorrow, all of a sudden, we'll have octopuses painted all of a sudden, who's with who, who's not, who's got businesses somewhere. I mean, this is going to become unheard of and we're going to drown in some stories, every hundred will be real or partially real, but the rest will be some imaginary product that will be sold as information goods, so that we can infect it daily and blame it all over Slovenia, because it's some top news and I don't know what else. That's one thing. The other thing is that it is important to me that we are still the only country that comes with so much information that is available. The information officer gave a nice comparison. Getting to the address today is really no longer a problem. We all know who lives around here, you walk up there, you look down there, you see the street, you joke, and the thing is done. Getting to the EMCHA number is already a bit of a problem, not as much as the address. Also, who can get to this number sooner so that they can review and access and access this data. There is also inequality at the end of the phase, if you mention earlier that someone today uses EUR 2 000 500 to access data, and today they will be part of a group of privileged people who will be able to access EMSH data. I'm scared. You know, otherwise I trust public services and officials in principle. But there are always gelibters who exploit their position and access to data, including EMHO, where you can access certain data just like that. In addition, one thing to note is that the law does not prohibit or criminalize more businesses in this country. It's not a crime. But today we are talking about multiplying the company, and whoever does three companies, that's an argument, right, that's why I'm mentioning it now, and that's already a problem. Therefore, it is necessary to open and make transparent so that everyone can access and verify how many companies he has. What does that have to do with anything? I know businessmen who have ten businesses, they haven't committed any crime, they pay all taxes, a lot of people are employees, and everything's okay. Of course, there is always a certain percentage without such a rich court registry or, above all, access to it or with it, which will always be the villains. But I say that for this there must be other instruments, how to hunt them and prevent them, so that this can happen. This cannot be an argument that we are therefore opening a court register to a wide, everyone, on average and practically, of course with this formula, which is very successful and now will be available to everyone for free. I'm sorry, it's, you know, populism, very nice. Everyone loves everything for free. Try to give one supergo for free to someone. Everyone's gonna take it because it's free. Crazy! He doesn't have anything to do with her, but that's about it, metaphorically speaking, with this data. Everyone's going to start and they're going to joke about all their neighbors, all of them alive, those who know them, and they're going to watch. Remember when GURS first put the data out. Yes, the server fell down from joy and joy when everyone was looking at all the data on the average, because everyone wanted to know who had as much as they actually had — no matter how valuable it was. Then they just started making comparisons of what he was worth, etc. Well, in the third story, they found out that what was theirs wasn't even listed under theirs anymore, but it's just next door, and it's kind of stupid. That's how it is with this court record. That's why I'm saying this thing is preposterous. The concept, the idea, the goal can be welcomed and even very sincere; what it wants to achieve with this. Just excuse me, it's too open and too exposed to all the "infections" coming this way. We're really doing voyeurism here at number one. It's worrying for me. Besides, let me mention something else. Has any analysis been done so far, but what has now happened because this court register has not been opened? Excuse me, the information I have heard in the presentations, I think that from one of the representatives of the coalition's parliamentary groups, there will now be quicker procedures, because the courts will no longer have to issue so many conclusions and I do not know what nonsense. Please! That's no longer a problem today. The Minister correctly notes that sometimes it was a problem, today it is no longer a problem. These conclusions are all forms – look, it's done, I won't say in what time. That's it. [[Finger-toed clap]] One minute it's done, the decision is out, and the procedure is clear, and you get this information. My ex-judgment is sneezing, the minister is nodding — I don't know who's right. That's right. Therefore, I say that this matter is too serious, and I have warned at the outset that it is not possible to go through this inadvertently with a reduced procedure and therefore it should be considered on a regular basis. This is no longer a minor change. That's not a minor change. That's a huge change. The other thing that is even more important than that is, you know, once I heard it ten years ago, if not twelve years ago – today it is before he goes to jail – when he said that it is because we have this personal data protection law and now we are protecting everything and everything is closed and nothing else should be known. This is completely wrong! I have to tell you, when I heard that from him, I said that maybe it's true, motherfucker, why we have this personal information now. It depends on what your interest is. Last but not least, respect for privacy, I agree with the minister when he says - while he interprets it from another perspective and says - of course, it must be the first person in line and it is very important to protect the privacy of the family and then list all the important areas that touch the human being. But I'm sorry. Economics, too. It's not true what someone says. You've entered the economy. You're part of the public now. You know what is public, and you know what is still not private, but also in the final stages of business secrecy. I would understand if I had been opened by a court register so that it would be more than clear that you are accessing data from the public domain; that is, public companies, and that you can see and chain when you see who is in a public enterprise, and who has a private company. You'd understand that, that opening logic. But I don't understand the logic that we're going to access private people because it's private capital because it's a private initiative. I don't understand that. I hope you're aware of what we're doing with this. In fact, we are the only country in the world that does so, in this way, with such data, with such a simple view. Yes, they have something similar in Scandinavian countries, but not nearly as proposed here. That is why this is really controversial and to consider whether such a solution is acceptable. I know that the minister will again answer that no; that this is his task, because in the final stage he has his goal and will achieve this. [[…]] I don't know if this is a really smart decision, and you will – we'll all cross the rubicon together. The Minister is well known for his time, at least during the last part of the period, dealing with these things and he was really very disturbed when he actually had problems in his work when he accessed certain data, blah blah, and so on. [[…]] [[…]] Maybe he saw this outside view that others were dealing with. Today, however, he was given an extraordinary opportunity to be a minister, and now he has the tools and the power to even do so. But that's his aspect, that's his view. He says so, he found out right at the beginning and I have to repeat this, "if not today, but in ten years' time." Yeah, for God's sake, since when is Slovenia the first one to do that in the whole world? The first thing we figured out was that we had to do it. This will lead us to the point, you will see when it has worse consequences. You know, because something is, like the minister said, because he said fantastically that once the bank data was very closed, now in recent years, thank God, they're already open. [[…]] Bank data is still closed, only it is known who can access and under what conditions and how to access them. Except what we transferred to the DUTB. There was also a very serious debate and debate in the previous term. Finally, when we discuss the calculation of the recapitalisation of our banks, we are now having a discussion. You see this media maneuver when they say why don't we open up and show Yes, but who's the one who's going to determine what's going to open and what's not in this data? [[…]] This step was, of course, taken and at the time, the ECB's warning was to the Bank of Slovenia not to do so, and not least to all banks. And we're once again the only one who's opening up all this data. Something like that, not the way we do things around here. I only warn you that once you have opened something, it is difficult to explain why you will close it; and what is worse when you close it, why it is for those who were in the meantime that everything is open. So once you open the door, you never lock them up for these things again. It seems to me that, indeed, the minister has made a thoughtful move, but on the part of the National Assembly that he will confirm that, indeed, it is a reckless move. [[…]] In addition, the law-law service here had very clear concerns, including from a constitutional point of view, of violation of the Constitution. She had a lot of comments, some of them were corrected from the point of view of nomotechnics and so on, but essential ones, but not crucial ones. And do not be misled and hide yourself with words: For once it is necessary to begin, and let us trust the Minister of the Light of Reason in our heads too! [[…]] Second thing, an information officer. It's interesting that two different authorities came forward and very clearly warned us that this is where we went over the edge. This is not a problem of Möderndorfer, and the opposition doesn't know what else, it's without connection. The institutions we have been set up to express their opinion that you are going over the edge; because there is a profession behind here, not politics. It's okay. It's Which we all like to refer to. No! No! And after the short notice! The minister's already holding the microphone. He wants to answer me. I'm gonna give myself five more minutes so I can have some more spares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Popovat, did you want procedural? Then you can sign up. The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm not gonna go like this. I think we've been through this before. I answer you because I believe you believe what you're saying, and I believe you believe that I believe what I'm saying. The only thing I'd like to make very clear is that you had such an excuse to say. We are not the first to do this, even Mr Möderndorfer said that in Scandinavian countries they have such, but not exactly in the same way of course they do not have exactly the same, because they have a different country set up. [[…]] In Scandinavian countries, your income forecast could be found on the Internet, most Scandinavian countries have income decisions for every citizen on the Internet. Many countries have such a solution, none of them, because countries do not have exactly the same judicial register as we do. The matter is already open, but I agree when it is completely open, but it will be completely open; but the matter is already open, companies are buying it and so on. In fact, I just wanted to say this once again, because now an apocalyptic scenario has been created; now something is going to come into play, which will no longer be possible to get into the bottle once it opens. It's already open, but it's not accessible to everyone! Not only is it not accessible to everyone, it is not accessible to research institutions that today cannot do analyses and so on, which could be important. I know people. The profession, including the other part of the profession, serious people who are also involved in the protection of personal data have come to the attention of the articles. So it could be at the final stage when we draw the line, right, it's a conceptual change. [[…]] With regard to the reduced procedure, I have already said that I have learned many things, but that privacy will not fail. There is one more thing to know: all that has been said by Mr Möderndorfer's Member to make no mistake, is that today, when you enter the business sphere, you are not just hidden and so on. Anyone can look at it, and if you're espa, even your EMHA knows about your tax number, because you have it the same way if you look at the iPad. But you don't know – they say they know you're in a business environment, they have your address, they usually even have your tax number, if you're espa, it's all out there, but you can't know because you have on the other side of this man either as a business entity, or as a possible job seeker, or as a consumer, as far as that Jože is concerned, or Jože, d. o. o., then keep going. You can find out in many countries. Not with us. If you support this law, we'll be able to find out. But I have no doubt that the law will have a constitutional judgment, and we have strong arguments to defend it. What will be the decision — and not now, please attack me — cannot the Minister of Justice say that he does not know. No one knows because there is no Member here who would not be a Member for at least one term without the Constitutional Court repealing anything. That's the point of dividing power! However, it is important that the arguments are faced and here, only if we go to look at the magnetograms of that committee will we see a huge number of arguments. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much. In my debate, I would like to make this distinction between this term of privacy of personal data in this very narrow meaning, which binds to us, that is, our personal situation, and when we actually step into another sphere of conscious decision; into the sphere of business, into the sphere of public in some way. There is certainly a difference here and there is a public interest here in any way to ensure a transparent and secure business environment. So I don't think we can even these two parts. However, they must be treated with all due care. I think that by what we already have in our existing legislation, we have shown this and, on the other hand, we have enabled all those who consciously decide to enter the business environment, to have the opportunity, on the basis of data that they can see and verify, to make appropriate business decisions. On the other hand, they may also be made aware of these data which enable them to assess the risks to which they are subject. I think that this is essential if we are to have some security, stability, predictability and, at the final stage, also the security of legal traffic. I would like to refer to my debater earlier when he says that we will be spreading stories and octopuses here. We already have a lot of stories and octopuses today, and I don't think we're gonna do that much more of these stories. These stories may be different, but we have them. We do not want to do that, nor will we solve the problem of the various chains. This is not the purpose of these amendments today. But the goal is to do or allow some transparency, to give an opportunity to see that it is possible to get it on a summary, so that anyone can get it. That's the purpose, not the purpose of the chaining. And there is nothing wrong with it, but why not if someone thinks that he can be in three or four societies, that he is a partner, why not, because our economic initiative and engagement are free. So we can – but why should not this be seen at the final stage? Why can't we know that I'm involved in so many and so many societies? Why not? It is important that we allow this insight to make it visible and that we can enable everyone, that on the basis of the information he acquires, he can decide whether to go to a business game or not. I don't think there's anything wrong with this and it's not about revealing any business secrets in the future. I think this is a completely different topic – business secret. It's not that kind of information! Already, the data we are talking about here today is recorded in the Court Registry. These aren't business secrets. Business secrets are something else. Let's not mix business secrets with what's defined as a business secret with what's in the court register. These are two different things and we will not interfere with these areas. I also agree that it is right to protect business secrets, but in different ways, we have different instruments and other bases for this. So here today we want to allow insight, so let's make it possible to get this data, and to clearly distinguish between what is an intervention into a person, a personal sphere, and where this transition is now. But it is true that this transition is very thin. It is true that there is not a large red line here that warns us about this, but it is very small that we need to pay attention to. And so do we, once again, consciously decide to cross this line, and thus take all the risk and all the responsibility for stepping into this sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The Minister said earlier that he would agree with the amendment if conditions were in place. The fact is that the law also now allows and will continue to allow all documents and data before 2008 to be provided on the basis of a written request. So there's an answer, and it has to be somewhere. And if it is will, then these data could be combined, properly prepared, then transmitted to what it requires, and at the same time transformed into an electronic form, where access to what you're talking about could then occur. Today you're talking about transparency and everything else, but look, you're doing the difference. The one who was in different companies and owned a number of companies was in the unknown worlds – you will not know about all those before 2008, and you will know about all the others. If the Minister had previously said that these data are at different ends and so on, are you sure – now he is not in, and I believe he hears – that the data currently in the register of justice is complete? Are they accurate? Imagine there's going to be a bunch of information online tomorrow, and then it turns out that they're not accurate, they're even wrong. You need to talk about a man here, because you know, and that could be a big problem. Why don't you go through some regular procedure, look first what's enabled, what's not enabled, what's not enabled, what's the record, and not that you're taking something on your nose to make it sound good, and on the other hand, you're going to be able to do a lot of wrong. I hope it's as small as possible. But I am sorry for all those who are to be done with it not only personal but also very large business injustices. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat also took the floor. Because I see there are more wishes, then I'm asking you to apply. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u140	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we hear some evidence that we are adopting legislation that is contrary to human rights. In practice, I know a number of cases when people came to court because, for example, they didn't get paid for their jobs, and they were told many times, because the state still can't take care of you at every turn. Ask yourself who you're dealing with. You know, and when you want to know who you're dealing with, you need some kind of good environment. This law, or the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, makes it possible for someone before going into a business relationship with someone to look at, at all, with whom he can go. Not for some big money, even if it's some independent entrepreneur who's just getting into some market, but he's just going online and looking at who he's dealing with. Then there will be no excuse for such an entrepreneur not to be able to ask who he is dealing with and that the state has not done enough for him. Here. These personal data are also human rights, but the situation in Slovenia shows that they can be put into a technique with some confidence in the economy, and this trust is based on the experience of economists who do not receive their payments, which are transported by a number of people thirsting for water in a way that creates a new company and then re-transfers the business to a new or, say, bad business to one of the debt-burdened companies. So this practice shows that, if it really is a human rights issue, it is necessary to restrict them a little bit and give priority to those who want to avoid court in the future, to ask about who they are going to deal with. Thus, I have no doubt that I would support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam President. So, I would add that in this topic that we are dealing with today, we have to read the whole law, not just the individual provisions, because I think that a lot of things have been said today have somehow occurred. First of all, as regards public interest, it is clearly defined in Article 2 of the Judicial Registry Act, which states that the data are entered in the Registry for reasons of legal certainty. So, what was said by the NSI Group is fully true. If we look at it, section 7 of the law says that the court register is a public book. The subject of the registration, the entity, are legal persons. He's not talking about natural persons anywhere, he's just talking about legal entities. The person who entered the legal person is part of the legal person is no longer part of the natural person. Whenever they have a public book, if we want to exchange some information in it, it must be clearly stated which data is exchanged. Just as a comparison, if we look at the Social Act, it explicitly states which data are not public. In this case, when we look at the court register, this restriction is not in any provision. This means that this data is already public. But it is only a question of how they are accessible. What we're handling today is just a form of access. So far, we've gotten this public information by going physically and getting this data. Now we're going to get this information online. And the other is what we're talking about here today, about the abuse of this data; about seeing octopuses and the like. This is another concept that is being processed by the Personal Data Protection Act and that speaks about the processing of personal data. Whoever's doing this has to have permission to do that. So, whoever looks at this personal information and uses it for themselves, this is not going to be an abuse. But if someone's going to chain this data to abuse it for some other purpose, it's an abuse of personal data. That is why I believe that a large part of the debate today has actually been directed in the wrong direction and that this is not really a conflict of human rights with public interest, but that it is simply a different form of data acquisition that is already so public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u144	I heard from a colleague that we were talking about human rights. I wasn't talking about human rights, I was talking about constitutional provisions. But maybe he was thinking about some other debater. Maybe. Why am I even bringing this up? Actually, now I'm listening again when you enter the company, so when you set it up, you decided to become your personal data public. That's not true. That's right. I hope you know that's not true. And this story, czech, the court register is public and everything that's published there is public. Yeah, but why aren't those records in the court register today? For God's sake, we are now changing the law so that what has not been public so far will become public. That's the difference! That's what I'm warning you, so today is the time to stop. Secondly, I would like to mention very clearly what the information officer has said, and I did not want to mention it at all, but I will now be just because some of you are referring to how your data becomes public when entering into business, especially if we are pursuing the objective of making the matter transparent. Look, I'm not putting anything else on those words if they're just being said to achieve the goal of something being adopted. I'm interested in the effects. I say that when we have such a court register, we will not get at the end of those desired goals that we want to achieve. I'm sorry, what is this one guarantee, what is it going to be -- let's say, I'm going to take this case, which is now being repeated by three people -- that the person who wants to work at the company will know which company he came to, and can I see if this company has three more companies? What does that have to do with anything? Is that illegal or what? But here we have to clear up whether this is a public interest. If this was a public interest to reveal something that was forbidden, then I understand, but it cannot be a public interest. Therefore, first of all, I call and prove to me that this is a public interest and in the public interest we are doing so. That's not an argument. Because if that were true, we would have done it 50 years ago, or at least 10 years ago, when we went into another system, and then after 10 years, we learned something, and that's not the case. Well, let's move on. One of the judgments of the Court in 2007, 2008, these were the famous judgments of Satamedia and Bavarian Lager, the judges wrote nicely the following sentence – and now listen carefully and carefully to those who have repeated it now as broken records: "The individuals entering the sphere of business do not give up the right to privacy and the protection of personal data." In short, we are talking about privacy and not public data. That is why I am telling you that this is not public data. But someone here today is convincing us that it is necessary to open up and do everything in public. These decisions already exist. Secondly, remember the case in the 2009 judgment when the court ruled on the proactive publication of recipients of agricultural subsidies. It is a matter of spending public money, and at that time the court made it very clear that such information should not be made public. You can have them if you ask for them, but not publicly and not on the Internet. We don't! Public, transparent, everything! That's what I'm talking about. I don't have trouble chasing a bunch of lumps away from defending someone, but I have trouble knowing that once you post something on the Internet, forget – forget it for all time; you won't get it down, everyone has access to it. Remember the case, the judgment of Google Spain, there the court clearly stated that economic interest alone is not enough to interfere with privacy and that transparency has no automatic advantage over the protection of personal data. Speaking of which, and here we have to think about it and stop fooling around, so I told you very clearly in the beginning – don't play with words, because everyone is falling for these pranks. Do you want to be transparent? Of course we're for transparency! You want us to hunt bastards? We're going to catch the bastards! Do you want to be honest? Of course we're for honesty! But what's behind it?Oh, my God! That's the problem. Therefore, please, fellow Members and Members, do not fall for transparency, because not everything is nice, which is nicely wrapped in a box. You'll open up. Not you, you Members and Members of Parliament, have already been examined as necessary. I'm talking about those who don't go into this public. Thank you very much. I'm done for today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you. The Minister of Justice of the Magi has entered the floor. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you. You haven't concluded. No, I'm kidding. Just because you're a couple of times again, make sure we're not being too dramatic. [[…]] This information is now public and is accessible to everyone, it is on the web portal. The problem is, it's just the first line, just knowing that someone has a company, but you don't know what kind of connections he's in. I think other Members have also said why and how important this is. As far as it is concerned, there have been several references to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Justice. The Constitutional Court also stated, inter alia, that "it is the legislator's duty to ensure the integrity of the business environment, as regards such arrangements, to exclude individuals who are not worthy or capable of participating in an economic undertaking from the business environment. This duty is fulfilled by the State so curatively, that is, by persecuting and expelling those entities" – blah blah blah – "... with restrictions on the establishment of companies. On the other hand, this duty may be fulfilled by the State and provided with preventive measures in order to safeguard legal traffic, which consequently also brings more efficient market functioning and to enable business operators and business operators – consumers, workers and others – to obtain all relevant information on this business entity." That's what he's after. The Constitutional Court then repeatedly said that the extremely liberal concept of entrepreneurship was not in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution. This is the Constitutional Court said a few times and here, 'this is still the best constitution, a copy of the constitution...', 'the law determines the way property is acquired and consumed by ensuring its economic, social and environmental function', then we have entrepreneurship, 'the economic initiative is free, but the law lays down the conditions' and so on, and 'the economic activity must not be carried out contrary to the public benefit' and so on. [[…]] All these arguments, I'm sure, will be brought before the Constitutional Court sometime. I only came by because Mr Möderndorfer, as I have told him many times before, with a very good rhetoric, was able to create some fear, and now you are putting on the Internet something that will no longer be possible to pull in and the world will collapse. Once again: many countries already have it, it is time for us to get it, because of trust in legal traffic, not because of some fetish of mine for transparency. I think everything that comes out of this can only be good. Other than that, I forgot to say this earlier. Yeah, that's a fact. Every transparency in the beginning means voyeurism. That's right. When GURS gave – is the GURS base generally good? I think it is, even though I think it has too much data. It's good for every citizen. At first, however, the server fell down because everyone wanted to watch the neighbors and so on. The same thing happened with the supervisor. The supervisor, by the way, is an inappropriately larger intervention in the principle of proportionality. The information officer then supported him. What happened when we put it up - we didn't have a server down, two million and a half clicks was and they were mostly full private clicks. People were looking for what, who -- you know, all that. Today, there is almost no man who would say that this is a product that is harmful, regardless of the political color. I believe that we will achieve the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. For my discussion, Mr Möderndorfer, although I had prepared for something else earlier, encouraged me. Since I cannot agree with all of his conclusions, I would like to say the following. Mrs Kozlovič said very well what is the purpose of the Law on the Registry of the Court of Justice, that information on companies is to be entered here, it is said, about the shareholders, and what we are entering into the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Next, I would like to say that I very much respect the efforts to protect citizens' personal data, that this is very important. However, when it comes to some public interests, the interests of our citizens on the other hand – and then I will explain what I was thinking about it – of course, I cannot support this, or I have also decided on the committee, and I have supported the provision in this law that data on companies and associates, on members of the supervisory councils and thus continue to be transmitted to citizens as public data. I also support the position of the Minister, who spoke about the protection of the privacy of the person who has priority over the protection of corporations, property and so on. I also believe that in our society, in our Slovenia, a person or a person is insufficiently protected. I'll tell you why. Look, we've had a lot of problems in the past. We were able to watch on TV the horrendous data of how some entrepreneurs – especially, as I recall now, in construction, in companies like Vegrad, for example, then private entrepreneurs in construction – used these workers. It looked like we were in a slave relationship. The people were lawless, they did not get salaries, they did not get a suitable place to live — that is, those who were from Bosnia and elsewhere when they came to Slovenia. Then I would also draw attention to other of our employees who have worked fairly in a number of companies and who have not paid them, paid them no personal income, made no contributions to them, made no withdrawal of these administrative obligations for the loans they have withdrawn and so on. In short, it was the exploitation of workers, the humiliation, you know, the man who worked for someone, and then he didn't even get the bread. On the other hand, these entrepreneurs did not pay other companies, and so on, in short, there have been major frauds and exploitations of individuals. [[…]] I think the cancer is the wound because we let it end SDK, and this is where it all started. This is a little bit about history now, because I'd like to explain and justify why I'm talking about it. Even today, look, we still haven't adopted the Law on the Prevention of Work in the Black, and it's still being done, we still have too few inspectors today to worry about people being used anymore. So, this protection of a man from capital, I want to apologize for saying that. This novelty, which we are discussing, is prepared with the aim of achieving greater transparency in the data of companies and other legal entities that are registered in the Court Register and operating in legal traffic. This is this objective, which I also support, and therefore I think that everything else is less important. It is important that we make order in our economy, in our societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see you don't. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, and I am also adjourning the 5th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 15.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u150	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Work Programme and the 2015 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly gives its consent to the Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2015 of 4. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. There were 46 votes in favour and no one in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts following a reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. There were 13 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 45 votes against 13. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 49. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 13. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, reduced proceedings. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Registry following a reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 3 July 2016. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u151	Before us is the law that the coalition has decided to open up, I apologize, support, under a password: let us give people a glimpse of how many people businesses have, let it be publicly accessible, free of charge, transparent, because they will be better employed because they will know in advance who they go to and what they are. We are convinced that this is a harmful law; it is harmful because we are taking an unreasonable step for one simple reason that will not have any effect; secondly, there is no public interest shown, and let us not forget that when we look at the register of justice, we must be aware that if we have a simple person before us, this person will never know if this company is supposed to be employed – this was the whole time – and in which company he enters, he will not know whether the company will settle obligations, pay all contributions and taxes under the law. It is not possible to find out from this court register. Therefore, all comparisons and excuses that this will now be transparent and good are, of course, futile and therefore I claim that this is a harmful long-term law, because a simple step back will not be allowed to work later. That is why we will vote against it in the Alliance, we will not support it, but everything will be done to reach the constitutional judgement of this same law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u152	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. In the SMC Group, we believe that these are entities and also data on persons who have voluntarily and independently taken decisions to enter the business area of legal representation and whose personal data are already published in the Court Registry and whose role in companies is essential for the functioning of the business system and for legal certainty. In order to ensure the efficient and transparent functioning of economic legal transport, it is necessary to ensure a clear and transparent structure of the economy and also the transparency of the existence of different links between different economic operators. We believe that there is a fundamental and necessary distinction between the sphere of narrow personal protection, i.e. personal data, and the area where we enter into the field of public interest and public interest. [[…]] We therefore believe that such a proposal and the proposed amendment will be sufficient and will lead to transparency, protection of legal transport and full economic relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u154	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u155	In the United Left, we will support this law mainly because it brings a higher degree of transparency as regards transactions under the Court Register. The Minister and I agree that these steps are necessary, and we are pleased to be here in a similar or similar position. It is that we socialists are fighting for democratisation at all levels of society, and this law in some way agrees with it. Of course, it is necessary to understand at the same time that things as this law provides are already in existence, and insight into this information is possible in a way or another. What I want to say with this is that the law itself with this measure will not bring about the fact that all the irregularities that occur with the chain of undertakings and so on and the lack of respect for workers' rights, the payment of contributions and so on will not be overturned. But one step closer to this goal — or at least we hope — this government and the justice minister — is set. Therefore, I repeat that we will vote in favour of this law in the United Left, but at the same time we expect, or in our own way, the Ministry of Justice to take further account of all these measures that need to be considered in this reform, which will be reviewed by this law, together with the other four which we are talking about at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u156	We have exhausted explanations of vote Explanation of vote on behalf of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats Mrs Iva Dimic. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, President! Once again, I would like to point out that the Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register because we believe and believe that this is a measure that will bring more order and legal certainty into our business environment. Once again, I would like to stress that everyone entering the business environment, into a business world where each individual enters voluntarily, I think that the level of privacy of each individual is declining or some of his data becomes more widely accessible. Once again, every entry into this system voluntarily, no one goes under duress, and I think that those who are honest who enter it and have fair intentions have no problem. It is true, however, that in the country it is necessary to establish and provide an appropriate mechanism that does not allow and also penalise abuses. I think that's the first step towards that. That is why we support this in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u158	We're exhausted in our own name? [[…]] Then I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support this marriage, as I explained earlier. When it comes to a situation where someone doesn't get paid for his job, a lot of people on the side of the country say that the state can't take care of you. But there's something you need to know for yourself, who you're dating, who you're going into business with. This law regulates these situations when someone who decides to go into a business relationship with another person can check its data. I am not saying that in some systems these rights are somehow limited, but with us we are aware of the situation, it is easy to set up new and new businesses, to transfer good jobs to new, bad jobs to the old and just to avoid such situations and frauds, where someone can hide for a new company, this law will allow voluntary businessmen to wonder about who they are going into business with. That's why I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u160	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u161	I'm not going to support the law exactly because it won't allow everything you've just listed. He's not going to let me know if I'm going to have a settled business because I'm going to see it from the court register – what? I won't see that! And I won't be able to see from this court register, because he has 3, 4 companies that he is now, I don't know, either a bastard or an honest man. You can't see that from the court register. But you can see a lot of data that no one needs to see right now. And third, don't tell me that things are on a voluntary basis. Normally, when you start a business, you decide, but you don't decide that the data is public. It's a matter of law and there's nothing voluntary about it! So don't fool people into making a voluntary decision. Everything prescribed by law is not voluntary when it dictates what must happen. However, killing another person by doing so to take his own independent business initiative — see, this is certainly what we are doing with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u162	We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register following a reduced procedure. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the fifth session of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
