ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 13th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mag. Jana Jenko and Mr Andrej Chuš. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the additions of the law on the organ and the resolution of banks by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The substance of the proposed Law on Complements of the Authority and Bank Resolution Fund is the timely provision of an administrative basis for the payment of the contributions of Slovenian banks for 2015 to the single resolution fund. The funds of this fund will be dedicated in the future to the resolution of systemically important European banks, including those of the Slovenian banks included in the single control mechanism. During the post-banking and financial crisis period 2008, the European Union adopted several legal acts to ensure the financial stability of the euro area and the European Union as a whole and for an in-depth economic and monetary union. These legal acts provide a framework for the establishment of a three-pillar banking union: a single control mechanism, a single resolution mechanism and associated funding arrangements, including a single resolution fund. The members of the euro area and other members of the European Union, who have decided to join the formation of the Banking Union, have committed themselves by means of a special intergovernmental agreement to the Single Resolution Fund, which will formally become operational 1. 1. 2016, paid a preliminary contribution for 2015 at the latest by the end of January next year. The preliminary contribution for 2015 shall be determined by each member of the euro area alone and, for 2016 and years, by the establishment of the target value of this fund, by the single resolution committee, which shall also be the manager of the fund year. Some members of the euro area have laid down a specific law for their preliminary contribution for 2015, which transposed the Directive establishing a framework for the rehabilitation and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, others, including Slovenia, already need to adopt a specific law. This is also the reason why the legal basis for the contribution of Slovenian banks for 2015 to the Single Resolution Fund is to be laid down in the framework of the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund. In determining the preliminary contributions made by Slovenian banks for 2015, the government assumed that they were the least burdened by their business outcome for 2015. The total amount of the previous contribution for this year is fixed as a proportional distribution of the annual preliminary contributions. By 2024 at the latest, the single resolution fund must have assets of 1 per cent of the total of all the guaranteed deposits of the European banks. Thus, the contribution of Slovenian banks for this year will be around €15 million. This law also lays down the legal basis for the possible pre-financing of the Single Resolution Fund, which, in the case of insufficient funds as the last possible measure, is provided by a member of the European Area in a proportionate proportion. This is bridging financing in the form of a loan, which was agreed by the members of the euro area in December 2013. The target value of the single rescue fund is €55 billion. The amount of the loan approved by Slovenia in the event of insufficient funding from the Single Resolution Fund in the preceding period will be up to EUR 71.5 million. This loan shall be returned to the Member State after the expiry of the period and shall be repaid. The proposal for this law merely constitutes the operationalisation of the legal acts already adopted at the level of the European Union, which are aimed at the final establishment and effective functioning of the Banking Union. The establishment of a scheme to finance the resolution of European Systemic Important Banks is an obligation for each member of the euro area. This ensures that taxpayers and the real sector have as little burden as possible on taxpayers and the real sector, contrary to previous practice in the rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia as possible. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Marushi Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Respectable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 37th emergency meeting, on 13. 11. In 2015, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Authority and Bank Resolution Fund to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and technical aspects and made a concrete comment in its opinion on Articles 2 and 3 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD groups, namely Articles 2 and 3 of the bill. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law establishes the legal basis for the payment of the contributions of Slovenian banks for 2015 to the single resolution fund, which will enable the operation of the single resolution mechanism from 1 January 2016 and will be aimed at the resolution of the systemically important European banks. Members of the euro area and other signatories have committed themselves to the Single Resolution Fund by the end of January 2016 to make a preliminary contribution for 2015, each of which is to be determined separately for 2015, and for 2016 and for the following years until the Fund’s target value is established by the Single Resolution Committee. Slovenia has not yet transposed the Directive establishing a framework for the rehabilitation and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms into its legal order, and the proposal for a law lays down the legal basis for the payment of Slovenian banks for 2015, amounting to approximately EUR 15 million. The proposal also lays down the legal basis for the possible pre-financing of the Single Resolution Fund during the transitional period, which, in the case of insufficient resources as the last possible measure, is provided by a member of the euro area in a proportionate proportion and amounts to EUR 71.5 million for Slovenia. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the service had made comments to the bill's proposal mainly of a nomological nature, which had been taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. On the question of whether the draft law was sent to the European Central Bank for an opinion, the State Secretary replied that the proposed law meant only the operationalisation of the EU legal acts already adopted, so the opinion of the European Central Bank was not necessary but was sent to the European Central Bank for information. A question was also raised regarding the harmonisation of the proposed law with banks and savings banks, to which the Secretary of State replied that the Agency for Insurance Control, Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia had participated in the coordination and that the comments of the Association of Banks of Slovenia had been taken into account as far as possible. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered and adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD's parliamentary groups to Articles 2 and 3 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be held by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, for which it is a mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose supplementing the Bank Resolution Fund Act. In particular, we would appeal to the Bank of Slovenia, as the manager of this fund, that these funds that banks have to pay into this fund and which, last but not least, also remain the assets and capital of the bank are dealt with primarily economically. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party, at least according to information, that the management of this fund by Banka Slovenije is not at the best level, especially if we compare the profitability of this fund with comparable funds in Europe and also on the other hand, that Banka Slovenije will ensure that the costs that banks have to pay for this fund are also compared to comparable funds. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the cooperation and communication of Banka Slovenije with the Association of Banks is not at the best level and we expect cooperation between Banka Slovenije and the Association of Banks to improve. In particular, it is important to be aware of what this fund is intended for, not least, the funds of the Bank of Slovenia and to appeal to the Bank of Slovenia to act as cost-effectively as possible and that the return of this Fund is comparable to comparable funds in the European Union. As we have already said, we will not oppose the addition of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a bill that we will unanimously support in the Desus Group. The bill establishes the legal basis for paying the contributions of Slovenian banks for 2015 to the Single Resolution Fund, which will enable the operation of a single resolution mechanism from 1. 1. 2016 onwards and will be aimed at the resolution of the Systemically Important European Banks. For the purposes of possible bank resolution, the banking sector will contribute the necessary resources in the future before the state budget funds are used for this purpose. The bill lays down the legal basis for the payment of Slovenian banks for 2015, amounting to approximately EUR 15 million. It also lays down the legal basis for possible pre-financing of the single fund, for resolution in the preceding period, provided by a member of the European area in a proportionate proportion in the event of insufficient resources as the last possible measure. This loan in the case of Slovenia amounts to approximately €71 million. The fact is that the settlement of the occupied banks is one of the most important stories of the last decade. It is a story of what happens when cheap money floods the market, the story of poor regulation and the actions of unfunded loans based on relationships and knowledge. In the end, all taxpayers, including those from the most vulnerable group, were saved by banks. The bill is therefore a step in the right direction in the Desus Group. Systemic important banks should be paid in small from which they would cover in the event of severe market volatility. However, we do not blind ourselves to this, the amount we paid to save the occupied banks is likely to be much greater than the rescue package that would be able to deliver a single resolution mechanism. In order not to repeat this story, we will need much more, especially the adoption of appropriate legislation in the field of control. In addition, there will be a need to clear up some back story, demand the responsibility of those involved and reject the potential of banking machines in the future. Let them deal with their original mission, not speculation. As has already been said, in the Desus Group we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u9	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, in which we will support the proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Authority and the Bank Resolution Fund. The law deals with and regulates one of the foundations of the European Banking Union, a single European Bank Resolution Fund to be financed by banks from their own balance sheet. Although Slovenia adopted this law already in 2014 and this year, banks have already collected their contributions to the Single European Fund, which will live next year, in a special account with Banka Slovenije. However, the amendment of the law that we are considering today regulates the way banks contribute to the single fund and provides for the possibility of bridging the loan of the Republic of Slovenia to this fund during the first years of its operation. The establishment of such mechanisms for possible new resolution of systemically important banks constitutes an important guarantee that the banking sector will contribute in the future itself to its recovery before taxpayers' money should be used. However, with this logic, it should be noted that even if we are talking about the banking sector setting up the necessary mechanisms for the resolution of banks, in any case this money will go from people to the banks economy. The only difference will be how it will be collected. This has happened in such a way that in a very short period of time it has been necessary to squeeze people, reduce wages, reduce pensions, eliminate regressions, reduce social assistance and, last but not least, forgive workers. This was the principle that was established in the current financial crisis and what people have contributed with their dismissals or cancellations, so that the banking sector can be reintroduced. The only difference will be the fact that this will gradually take place throughout the operation of banks. Thus, insurance against the great potential burdens of people and the budgets of individual European countries is in fact a key argument to try to organise this fund, since, last but not least, we must remember that we have invested almost EUR 5 billion in the resolution of banks in Slovenia and this represents, when we are just at the time of the adoption of the budget, almost half of the annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the direct cost which has been incurred and which we have dedicated to bank resolution, but of course many other costs have been incurred, not least the repayment of interest, but also the so-called bad bank, which is also one of the most expensive forms of resolution of the bank hole that we have decided in Slovenia. All of this would not have occurred if there had been no momentum in the processes for the financial crisis of greed. However, the key lever that greed could use was poor regulation, which did not require banks and financial speculators to guarantee their own business to form reserves to cover their potential losses. At a crucial moment when this loss has become too great, the question is always asked, banks are too important to fail, and they need to be resolved through public funds, and then this cost falls on people who have had no impact on preventing this loss in banks. The fact is that banks already have all the mechanisms to do what is right today, to carry out their operations in a way that strictly monitors both the flow of deposits and the outflow, if we can say so, and to assume some kind of responsibility for the granting of credit, there is always a risk of credit here, and this ratio between deposits and between credits can be regulated and closely monitored by the previous system, but obviously the banking sector has not been able to do so during this period and therefore this additional fund, which will be able to contribute to the burden of people if a new financial problem needs to be resolved, will not be as severe as it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! In the United Left we have adopted this law, so the Law on the Authority and the Fund for Bank Resolution have been opposed. There are two problems. One is on the side of the body that will carry out the tasks of bank rehabilitation, namely Banka Slovenije and the other are the principles of European action, the functioning of the European Fund. Unfortunately, the practice has shown that our reservations are justified. Well, if I go every single time. About the Bank of Slovenia. Banka Slovenije is an institution which is one of the most responsible for the crisis and for problems with the rehabilitation of banks and subsequent public debt. In the last 10 years, it has been a twofold failure: it has failed at the time of the overheating of the economy, when it has done absolutely nothing to stop the growth of business lending, even though then many economists have warned of the problem, even though the growth of credits to companies at that time has reached as much as 30% per year, and clear signs of the crisis have already been displayed in the United States before 2007. The fact that Banka Slovenije did not act resulted in a 7% decline in GDP and a later bank hole. The Bank of Slovenia's leadership has never acknowledged this, has never analysed its mistakes and has never reformed. The Bank of Slovenia now remains responsible for the rehabilitation of banks by this law, although it is unreformed and responsible for both catastrophic policies before 2008 and for catastrophic recovery in 2013 and 2014. At that time she did stress tests; two stress tests of Slovenian banks, which varied by 45%, while in comparable countries there were no such differences. The result of an unrealistic assessment, due to the unrealistic assumptions of Banka Slovenije, is by some calculations even 2 billion more public debt, 2 billion more that we had to invest in the rehabilitation of the bank hole than the state. As a result, the privatisation of NKBM, for which the state has endured EUR 250 million, even though this bank has received more than a billion euros in state aid over the past three years. The figures in the salaries of Torbjörn Münsson are, in this case, fines. But Torbjörn Münsson is not on a bad bank today, but the Bank of Slovenia is still completely unreformed, completely unreflected, completely without criticism, but we get new and new debts. This law is once again becoming an institution that will decide on the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks in the event of a new crisis. Another problem we have is the functioning of the European Fund. We are not against such a European fund, provided, of course, that it is based on solidarity between European countries, especially between the European Centre countries and the European periphery. But since this law was at European level or since we adopted this law, two events have shown that there is no such solidarity that would allow such a way to work in Europe. The first such event was the Greek debt crisis, which left Greece virtually the whole of Europe in decline, but humiliated it, while the second is the current refugee crisis. In short, given that solidarity in Europe or in this context is not counted against the practice of the European Union, we will be led by the informal Bank of Slovenia, which is responsible for the disastrous management of economic policy before 2008 and for the catastrophic rehabilitation of banks, we cannot support this law in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! In opening, let me say that Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Authority and Bank Resolution Fund. However, we are critical of the government because of the urgent procedure for adopting this very important law. Colleagues and colleagues, with the establishment of a single European Union-level resolution fund, there is a mechanism for bank resolution, which is in serious trouble with the aim of establishing the normal functioning of banking markets in the European Union. The Single Resolution Fund shall be financed by contributions from banks established in individual Member States, with prior and exceptional subsequent contributions. For our taxpayers, this bank resolution system is essentially designed to ensure that Slovenia's taxpayers never again patch up bank holes in our important banks. Whether this will work or not is not a question of course. Of course, it's a good purpose. The Single Resolution Fund will continue to operate according to national divisions during the transitional eight-year period and Member States of the European Union must ensure that the adopted EU Regulation 2015/63 was implemented, which was published on 17 January 2015 and provides that for 2015 they must collect contributions from the Member State and, after the end of the transitional period, they will collect the Single Resolution Fund without intervention from the State. The proposed addition to the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund is necessary in order to harmonise internal legislation with the previously cited Regulation relating to the collection of preliminary contributions. For 2015, preliminary contributions should be collected by 31. 12. 2015 and then, in accordance with the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer and Reciprocality of Contributions under the Single Resolution Fund, these previously collected contributions will be transferred to the Single Resolution Fund by 21. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal to supplement the law provides that the Bank of Slovenia, which establishes the financing scheme, is responsible for the collection of these previous bank contributions. For 2015, the previous contribution by banks is 0.1% of the total of all guaranteed deposits in the Republic of Slovenia after the state of 30. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Bank of Slovenia will impose a decision on the individual bank to make a preliminary contribution. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a proposal for a law, states that Banka Slovenije must start issuing decisions no later than 1. 12. 2015, so in a few days, that contributions can be made on time and collected. That is why we are critical of the government, and we estimate that the Government should bring this law to Parliament at least six months ago. We even believe that, despite the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, there will be too little time available to carry out the procedures for the timely assessment of previous contributions, even in cases where the banks will make use of legal remedies. Of course, the government is responsible for this situation. Nevertheless, as has already been said, Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u16	Dear President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The proposal for a law supplementing the Authority Act and the Bank Resolution Fund shall provide the relevant documents for the effective treatment of banks in difficulty, in particular the establishment of a bank resolution financing scheme under the single resolution fund provided for by both the Regulation and the Directive, thus also ensuring the transposition of this Directive into the Slovenian legal order. This is why the amendment of the law establishes a resolution financing mechanism under the Single Resolution Fund, financed by the contributions of the banking sector and will provide funding for possible measures to address systemicly important banks in difficulty. More specifically, the proposal provides a legal basis for determining and paying the contributions of Slovenian banks for 2015 to the Single Resolution Fund and the legal basis for the collection of annual preliminary and extraordinary subsequent contributions from banks, which are determined directly by the Single Resolution Board under the Single Resolution Mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund under the Regulation and the Single Resolution Committee. In order to ensure compliance with the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of those rules, it is necessary at national level to establish rules allowing the Bank of Slovenia, as the bank resolution authority, to give banks timely decisions on the assessment of the contribution for this year and to set a deadline for the payment of this contribution for this year. In order to comply with the delegated Regulation, the financial effects of the payment of the previous contribution for this year must be expressed in the accounts of the banks for 2015. In the event that the payment of the previous contribution for 2015 would fall to 2016, the banks must take into account in their accounts the effects of the payment of the contribution for 2015 as a contribution for 2016. The payment of the previous contribution for 2016 will be awarded to banks by the Single Resolution Committee and will then be collected at national level and transferred to the Single Resolution Fund by 30 June 2016 at the latest. The provision of a resolution financing mechanism under the Single Resolution Fund has thus made it important to ensure that the banking sector as a whole will contribute the necessary resources to the future for the possible resolution of the Systemically Important Banks before the state budget funds are used for these purposes. In doing so, the draft law has made it important to ensure the planned implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia without any new emergency burdens on bank resolution, and it is therefore necessary to adopt legislation in accordance with the urgency procedure. Certainly, we support the creation of a single resolution fund in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre because the country will no longer solve the bank in the future, but other banks will solve the problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u17	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 32nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. On the day-to-day basis, this is a second-to-day proposal for an insurance law in the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u18	You have before you the Proposal for an Insurance Act, so allow first a few words about the state of the insurance market in the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian insurance market is classified as a medium-developed market among European countries, and this does not apply to the area of life insurance, as only a few European Union countries achieve a smaller share of these insurance in the overall premium. Slovenian insurance represents a good 5% of GDP and directly employs more than 6 000 employees. Taking just as many insurance agents and intermediaries into account, the role of insurance companies and their social responsibility is even greater. The importance of the insurance market was an important guide in the drafting of the law, with the cooperation of relevant state-owned societies and supervisors. The main objective of the bill is to transpose into the Slovenian legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the initiation and pursuit of insurance and reinsurance activities called Solvency II. Solvency II Directive lays the groundwork for the supervision of insurance undertakings on three pillars. The first pillar represents financial requirements, the second rules on control and internal controls, and the third pillar is based on reporting and disclosure. The following Solvency II approach will require insurance undertakings to take into account, in addition to insurance risks, market risks arising from the movement of investment value, credit risks – this is the risk that third parties will not meet their obligations to insurance companies – and operational risks associated with business processes, with amended regulation and other external events. Thus, the current Solvency I approach will be that the regulatory capital is calculated on the basis of risk assessments and on the basis of statistical or actuarial methods. replaced an integrated approach to calculate the corresponding premium. In doing so, account will have to be taken of all the risks to which the insurance undertaking is exposed. The central elements of the new capital requirements are the solvency capital requirement and the required minimum capital. The first represents the amount of capital that enables the insurance undertaking to absorb unforeseeable damage of 99,5 per cent of cases over a period of one year and the second in 90 per cent of cases over a period of one year. Solvency II is a system that takes into account the risks of each insurance undertaking. This means that the capital requirements will in particular reflect the specific risk profile of each insurance undertaking. Insurers who manage their risks well because they have strict policies, use appropriate techniques to mitigate risk or diversify their activities, will be rewarded and will be able to have less capital. On the other hand, insurers that are more vulnerable to risks will have to provide more capital to settle insurance claims at maturity. We believe that the new regime will ensure a uniform pan-European level of protection for insured persons, which will be higher than the current one. This will also benefit insurance companies, as confidence in their operation will increase. However, the transition to a new insurance scheme will also burden both capital and organisational, but the introduction of Solvency II should benefit everyone in the long term. I therefore propose that you support the bill. At the same time, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government proposes that a third hearing be held at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u19	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Marushi Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 14th session, on 6. 11. In 2015, the draft Insurance Act, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption, was considered as a working body by the Government. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the comments of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the letter from the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the letter from the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia, the letter from the Union of Financial Organizations of Slovenia, the letter from the Union of Insurance Representatives of Slovenia and additional explanations from the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the SDS Group, the NSI Group, the United Left Group and the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups have tabled amendments to the draft law. The proposal for amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD committees to Article 256 adopted by the Committee in the debate was also tabled to members and members of the Committee. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Slovenian Insurance Association and the Association of Insurance Agents. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the state of insurance in the Republic of Slovenia and explained that the aim of the draft law is to transpose Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the initiation and pursuit of insurance and reinsurance activities, Solvency II. In addition to insurance risks, insurance companies will also have to take account of market, credit and other risks under this Directive. The capital requirements will reflect the specific risk profile of the insurance undertaking. Thus, strict policy insurance companies, with appropriate risk mitigation techniques or insurance companies that diversify their activities, will be able to have less capital and higher risk insurance companies will have to have more capital to ensure that insurance claims are settled. In the short term, this will mean an increase in the capital and organisational burden of insurance undertakings and will help to increase insurance safety and improve the international competitiveness of insurance undertakings over a longer period. In particular, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the proposal for a law was not sufficiently clear, understandable and transparent. She explained that, on the basis of the comments of the service, amendments from the coalition groups had been tabled and further clarifications had been sought from the Ministry on comments that had not been taken into account. The representative of the Insurance Supervisory Agency further warned that the proposed law was extremely complex and that the proposed solutions to the bill would require the whole insurance activity to adjust its functioning. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee focused mainly on the following articles of the bill and the amendment under this Article, namely Articles 54, 57, 67, 494, 495 and 552 and the amendment for the new 625a. In particular, the areas governing the participation of workers in the supervisory board and the management of insurance undertakings, the composition of the professional board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the disclosure of insurance intermediaries’ commissions and the area of supplementary health insurance. The Committee has adopted, for consideration, all amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups to the draft law. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 494, 552 and 545, and the amendments of the United Nations Group of Ambassadors to Articles 54, 57, 67 and 625a. In addition, the amendments of the NSI Group and the SDS Group's amendment to Article 495 have become irrelevant. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u21	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for her, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Well-welcome colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for an Insurance Act. Over a period of months of coordination, the scope of matter itself, and above all the very substantive complexity and complexity, have resulted in the fact that there is a law in front of us that has more than 600 articles. The reason for the renewal of insurance legislation concerns the necessary respect for the European Directive and, where necessary, the appropriate implementation into the Slovenian legal order. The basic aim, which we believe will be seen in a very short period of time, is that the law brings more novelties for insurers and helps to improve the international competitiveness of insurance undertakings. The essence of the European Directive, referred to as Solvency II, relates to enhanced surveillance activities that include, inter alia, extending the risk range for insurance undertakings. This will also take into account market, credit and a number of other risks. Inadequate risk sensitivity was also one of the shortcomings of the current regime. A few numbers on how insurance works with us. In 2013, the operation of Slovenian insurance companies, we estimate the good and capital adequacy of the Slovenian insurance market at a rather envious level. Data show that Slovenian insurance accounts for about 5.6 per cent of GDP and directly employs more than 6,000 people per year and collects about 2 billion euro premiums. So this is a fairly successful industry, we could say, but in the Desus Group we are aware that insurance is also one of the most sensitive areas, especially given the fact that the standard of living is constantly changing. Insurers simply act on their monthly savings, so many times personal insurance, although it would be necessary, regrettably, to fall on the sidelines. On the other hand, the uncertain future has increased interest in these life insurance schemes. Recently, news has been published in the media that more than 1.3 million different life insurance has been concluded in Slovenia in the previous year, raising insurance companies for around EUR 500 million in premiums. The key problem in the conclusion of insurance contracts is repeatedly on the side of non-recognition or lack of understanding of matter, such as, for example, a cash expense or a need for a certain insurance or a prioritisation of an individual. Let me finish. In the Desus Group, we want the new regulatory framework to provide more information for insurers, which will result in additional confidence in insurance products. At the same time, there is a promise of greater security for insurers, which is supposed to be uniform across Europe, and as I have already said, a range of risks is spreading, which is also very important. Because of everything I have said, Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u23	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thanks again for saying that. Once again a nice welcome to all on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, in which we will support the proposal for an Insurance Act. This law transposes into the Slovenian legal order the Directive of the European Union adopted by the European Parliament and the European Council in 2009 and is referred to as Solvency II Directive. The proposed law in addition to the directive also updates all areas in the Insurance Act or in the field of insurance which are not bound by the Directive. When we look at the content of the law, we find that it contains as many as 646 articles, that is, extremely extensive material. It is important, however, that the new European control system, introduced by this law in Slovenia, provides control and a basis for correct assessment of the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings in the exercise of control over their business. Solvency II will apply in all 27 Member States of the European Union as well as in 3 Member States of the European Economic Area. The aim of Solvency II as a single European standard is to help protect the interests of insurers more effectively, thus reducing the likelihood of inability of insurance undertakings to pay compensation due to the new framework. The new law will also make it easier for insurance undertakings to operate or enter into insurance in other Member States of the European Union, as the rules and practices of the business of insurance undertakings will be uniform in all Member States of the European Union or of the European Economic Area. In addition to the importance of taking part in the European Union single market, this law also means a systemic approach to regulating insurance in Slovenia and thus brings solutions in a number of areas, notably the conditions for the establishment and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings established in the Republic of Slovenia, then the conditions for the supervision of insurance and reinsurance groups, the conditions for the reorganisation and termination of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. The conditions under which persons established outside the Republic of Slovenia may provide insurance and reinsurance services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia also refer to the proper functioning of the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the exercise of jurisdiction and liability under this and other laws, and also lays down conditions for insurance representation and intervention. The comments of the Insurance Supervisory Agency regarding the powers and designation of its administration were also taken into account in the debate in the National Assembly or in the working body. These solutions are now more clean. In fact, the issue remains unresolved, a very important issue, and this is the issue of working together in insurance. The new law provides that, in order to participate in the management of the required 5 years of experience in management positions, which in practice makes it very difficult or almost impossible for workers to participate in the management of society. We have before us or today we will also consider the opposition's amendment, which is trying to solve this problem. Here we would also like to stress the fact that this amendment also has a basis in a decision of the Constitutional Court which has already addressed this issue. I think this is one of the areas where we will have to find the right way to ensure the participation of workers in the management of insurance companies. Indeed, workers are certainly well aware of the functioning of insurance companies, and also with their experience and knowledge of the practical functioning of the whole process can greatly help to make insurance areas in Slovenia work even more successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! In the area of insurance today, there are two key issues: first, whether commercial insurance companies will be able to continue to carry out social insurance in the future – I am talking about supplementary health insurance – and secondly, whether employees in insurance companies will be able to have their representatives in the supervisory boards of these companies and administrations. From the answer to the first question, it is said that the question of supplementary health insurance depends on whether citizens will have equal access to health services and long-term care services. The United Left's position here is clear: commercial insurance companies have nothing to look for in compulsory social insurance! This system is ineffective, as the Ministry of Health only notes that 20 per cent of the money we collect from supplementary health insurance premiums never even comes into the healthcare system. This 20 per cent represents €92 million a year lost in insurance companies instead of coming to health; on the other hand, yesterday we adopted a budget which cuts the health budget by 30 million. If only here we could increase efficiency by one half, we would get 45 million euros. This system is still unfair; it is unfair because the premium for supplementary health insurance is the same, whether you have a pension of EUR 400 or EUR 10,000. You pay the same in both cases. This system is not only unjust, it is also exclusive. During the crisis, according to the World Health Organization, 28 000 Slovenes and Slovenians had to cancel supplementary health insurance because they were no longer able to pay it. Therefore, we must resist the insurance lobby and eliminate this ineffective, unfair and exclusionary insurance. In the United Left, we have proposed an amendment to the Committee, and today we propose that a safeguard be incorporated into this law so that the coalition's commitment in the coalition contract will also be realized after the abolition of supplementary health insurance by the end of the term of office. On the other hand, it is problematic that this law, which is essentially the transposition of the European Directive, is used by the Government to restrict the rights of employees to co-decision. For them, it introduces such restrictive conditions as to ensure that none of the employees will be able to perform the functions of a labour director or a labour representative on the Supervisory Committee, as we know from the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. In fact, a candidate for these functions is required, according to the new law before us, that a person has to exercise a business function in a comparable large insurance organisation before five years, meaning that a person who wishes to run for a work director or a member of a supervisory board will have to be a practical director of an insurance company five years ago. If he wants to become an insurance company in Triglav, he should almost be the director of Triglav Insurance because it is a comparatively large business system. In doing so, this law converts labour co-ordination into management co-ordination, since none of the agents, none of the insurance agents, will simply meet the strict conditions so that they can perform this function at all. In the United Left, we regret that the European Directive is being used in this way, because the spirit of the European Directive, as I will explain later in the explanation of the amendments, is not as far as the Government is concerned. The government reads this incredibly restrictive and reads it on purpose also restrictively, which apparently also gave way to the insurance lobby at this point in order to push the labour co-administration out of the insurance sector. In the United Left for both reasons, we cannot support the law, but we are once again putting in all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u27	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The insurance sector is one of the areas that can be affected, which is strongly affected by developments in domestic and international financial markets. The period of several years of economic and financial crisis has shown that the area of financial markets needs to be well regulated and, above all, the establishment of appropriate preventive mechanisms for capital requirements to be met by insurance undertakings in order to ensure solvency of insurance undertakings and to prevent disturbances in the Single Market of the European Union. At the level of the European Union, the insurance sector has been regulated by a number of directives that are transposed into our Slovenian legal order by this proposal. Compared to the rules so far, the new law makes the biggest changes in the area of improving risk management also through ensuring internal supervision in insurance and reinsurance undertakings, improving supervision and increasing transparency in the functioning of insurance undertakings. What is essential in the proposal for a law is a higher level of protection for insured persons, which we hope will at least increase the confidence of insured persons in insurance companies and their products also through the promotion of competition between insurance undertakings, which is expected to lead to a reduction in the value of insurance premiums. This is particularly important for the functioning of our insurance market, which has faced the onset of the economic crisis with poor business results mainly at the expense of the decline in life insurance and also the decline in property insurance associated with many corporate bankruptcys. At this point, however, I would like to point out a problem that is particularly important to our small economy. In fact, insurance companies do not offer products to the economy for certain risks because these products are not commercially relevant. I would first point out the employer's liability insurance for damage to workers. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry strongly draws attention to the issue of regressive claims applied by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance against craftsmen and entrepreneurs for the cost of treating workers for injuries at work. Regressive claims require such heights as are practically their downturn for smaller employers. In this respect, they point out that no insurance undertaking offers the possibility of insurance for this insurance risk. These areas are still quite attractive for our craftsmen and entrepreneurs. Liability insurance should be properly regulated and ensured, since, otherwise, the risk of injury to workers entails too much burden for, as said, in particular smaller employers. They do not decide on new employment, even though they have enough orders and enough work to do. The risk is simply too great. The same problem is the provision of crop protection against hail. Even in this area insurance companies do not offer insurance products because they are not commercially interested. These areas will need to be properly regulated according to the example of other developed countries. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law, taking into account the fact that during the parliamentary procedure, the resolution referred to in Article 552 was corrected, which ensures the equal position of insurance representatives of domestic and foreign insurance companies on our market in the manner proposed in our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u29	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u30	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! This is a topic that is the basis of the financial crisis that we have witnessed, namely that banks have been exposed to this financial crisis, especially with us in Slovenia, and if we look at the documentation more widely and analyse trends in Europe and in the United States, we see that it is a good part of the financial crisis at the expense of insurance and reinsurance companies. We didn't have much to talk about. The new legislation, which has somehow been promoted in the European Union and the directive that we need to implement, is precisely due to the fact that in Europe they are aware that the financial crisis is also largely the result of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. We are partially implementing these solutions, but we have not discussed this enough. We see that these new financial solutions are mainly about the fact that insurance companies are no longer doing classical work, but they are making the biggest profits from so-called new financial products; they say they are dealing with financing rather than insurance. Some problems have already been pointed out to me by my colleague Horvat from Nova Slovenije. It is that we have a proposed law with more than 600 articles and almost 300 amendments and there is a problem of confidence in legal certainty in such regulation. Of course, the law was adopted quickly, so solutions are not consistent with other legislation and are bad what we will feel in the future. We are interested in who has consulted in this legislation, we are interested in how this legislation will be implemented, because it will be a very short period of time, who will carry out education, who will justify this law, who will comment on it and, above all, what will be the consequences of the proceedings and how this will work in court. Who's going to represent these parties? The one who prepared the law and then educated it on the one hand? Who's on the other side? So, a whole bunch of problems in the future. That is why we are interested in how this law will be implemented – because of the lack of law itself and because the law was ready quickly. In view of this, we consider that the law is a good basis for so-called part of systemic corruption, which can over time show what the OECD warns us about, namely that such laws, which have too many articles, are inconsistent and inconsistent, mean that they will not be implemented and that some will be well deserved in the search for legal loopholes. As a result of that law, we cannot support it, as already mentioned on the Committee. We propose that a better, newer solution be prepared as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u31	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the bill is to transpose Directive 2009/138 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the initiation and pursuit of insurance and reinsurance activities — Solvency II, as amended by Directive 2011/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2009 which aims to increase the protection of insurers and beneficiaries and to improve the international competitiveness of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the European Union. The proposal for a law will now replace the current Insurance Act, as the transposition of a large-scale European directive makes no sense and it is possible to draw up an amendment to the current regime. The law will help to improve the risk management of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, as the current regime does not adequately focus on risk management and does not encourage insurance undertakings to measure and manage risks properly. In the current legislation, there is no incentive for insurance companies to increase their attention to qualitative aspects such as leadership, internal risk control procedures and risk monitoring. The new legislation will provide sufficient incentives for insurance companies to pay additional attention and improve their risk management. The law is a system law on insurance and brings solutions in the field of the conditions for the establishment, operation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings established in the Republic of Slovenia. The law lays down the conditions for the supervision of insurance and reinsurance groups, as well as the conditions for the reorganisation and cessation of insurance and reinsurance undertakings and the conditions under which persons established outside the Republic of Slovenia may provide insurance and reinsurance services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The law also lays down the rules of operation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the management of powers and responsibilities on this and other laws and the conditions for insurance representation and intervention. The main solutions to the law relate to solutions in Solvency II Directive, which includes 14 existing insurance directives and adds new solvency rules. Existing Directives have been partially revised but have not been subject to changes to the content. The main substantive changes in terms of current regulation are in the area of quantitative requirements – Pillar 1, quality requirements and control rules – Pillar 2, reporting control and public disclosure – Pillar 3 and group supervision. The new Insurance Act will give much greater emphasis to good risk management and strong internal control. The liability for the insurer's financial strength will be transferred to his administration, to which he belongs. The legal requirements and practices of the industry will be harmonised and insurers will be rewarded by introducing a risk management and capital management system that is most suited to their needs and the general risk profile. The adoption of new legislation means that the capital requirements for new ones will in particular reflect the specific risk profile of each insurance undertaking. Insurance companies that manage their risks well will thus be rewarded with a lower demand for capital. On the other hand, insurance undertakings that are more vulnerable to risks will have to provide more capital and thus ensure the appropriate safety of their insurers. For all of this, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the proposal for an Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u33	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act is particularly relevant in the transposition of the European Directive, so-called Solvency II. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that Solvency II is a positive trend in the area of insurance. We are confident that Solvency II will lead mainly to risk reduction, greater competitiveness for well-standing insurance companies and greater safety for all market players, in particular for insurers and investors. With regard to the law, we would appeal to the Government of Mira Cerar, Ministry of Finance, to prepare significantly better legislation in the future, which they send to the National Assembly. The fact is that we have dealt with more than 250 amendments on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which were mainly nomotechnic in nature, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we believe that such a law, which has more than one third of the amendments, is difficult to carefully review and effectively assess whether it is appropriate or not. In particular, another point needs to be highlighted: the Insurance Supervisory Agency has pointed out what constitutes the greatest risk to the insurance market in Slovenia – this is the share of the State in insurance companies and the share of the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia held by insurance companies in its portfolio. It is particularly important to us that we call on the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition to consider amending the strategy on the management of state property, because it is clear in this strategy that insurance companies owned by state should continue to do so. On the one hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we see why the government of Mira Cerar decided to pursue such a strategy. Last but not least, we were able to read a while ago in the media that actually the Triglav Insurance Company serves as a dedicated staff of some and other coalition partners. In the last period, we have been able to record at least seven names that have been employed by Insurance Company Triglav. We have tabled several amendments to this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. On the one hand, we are pleased that the coalition has followed the very important amendments for at least three of us, namely, that with the Director of the Insurance Control Agency, the Employment Contract is signed by the Council of Experts and not by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because we are confident, in view of everything previously said, that the State controls more than 60 per cent of the insurance market and there could be a conflict of interest here. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to table another amendment today at the plenary session, namely that the members of the Section cannot be employed by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. We are confident that such an amendment will benefit the Agency's quality work and also avoid conflicts of interest. I would once again appeal to the government of Mira Cerar and to the coalition to consider changing the governance strategy of state property, because in Slovenia we do not think we have the best 60 % share of the insurance market controlled by the state. Finally, there is a strong enough argument as to why this is: insurance is a business discipline where there must be some confidence, and not least, in the last 15 years, the presidents of our biggest insurance company, Triglav, have not even completed their term of office. We appeal to the smallest possible impact of policy on insurance activities. The only recipe for this is, of course, the withdrawal of the state from the insurance company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 57 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has Luke Moon, to be prepared, Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Article 57 adds the amendment of the United Left, which, as I have already said in my position, relates to codecision between workers in the management of insurance companies. In fact, in this novel, which we have before us, the transposition of the directive gives us a legislative regime which will stipulate that employees' representatives on boards and supervisory boards must work on a comparable function 5 years earlier for the insurance industry. It is clear that a working representative in the supervisory board will have to perform this function for five years first on the part of capital representatives in the supervisory board. The Director of Labour in the insurance company will obviously have to be in charge of the insurance company 5 years ago because the rules enshrined in this legislation are so strict and high-level. This is in stark contrast to the umbrella law on labour co-decision with us, the Law on the participation of workers in governance, where it clearly gives workers the opportunity to co-operate with companies, to participate in supervision, to participate in internal control and to be informed, while, in fact, with this novelty that we have before us, insurance companies are becoming a condition when labour co-management is turned into management. In fact, workers, insurance agents and so on will not be able to reach the criteria, which will mean that the functions of employees' representatives in the supervisory boards and insurance administrations can be managed only by former supervisors or former managers — none of the employees, none of the work co-management. That is, it follows directly from this law. At the same time, it must be said that the directive to which the Government refers is not as restrictive as our law. For example, the directive simply requires members of the supervisory and administrative boards to have knowledge in the field of insurance activities, which is understandable. However, Article 42 states that an insurance undertaking or reinsurance undertaking shall ensure that members of the Management, Management or Supervisory Board have the common appropriate competence, experience and knowledge, and the guidelines in point 11 state that members of the Management, Management or Supervisory Board have common competence, experience and knowledge. This means that they must have, in the supervisory committee or in the administration as a collective, these competences, which you now prescribe to each individual, because they understand and take in Europe governance a little more seriously than we do. And the absolute directive is not written in the spirit that a working representative should have previously performed a management function of 5 years in a comparable large insurance company. It simply requires that certain knowledge and competences, which are then further defined as they are, are not mentioned in this 5-year condition either. As far as competence is concerned, it provides that these authorities must have them in common. In addition, as I have said several times before on the committee, the regulation that the Government is now immersing in this law is unconstitutional. In fact, the Constitutional Court has already ruled in 2003 that even though it is a matter of, quote, "in insurance companies, in fact, for the specific tasks of those bodies", and in the view of the Constitutional Court, "it cannot be argued that this could constitute a reasonable and genuine reason for the disputed distinction, and this relates to a disputed distinction from the system regime" in this case from the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. Thus, the Constitutional Court recognises that it is in the insurance companies for the specific tasks of those authorities, but this must not be the reason for the workers' co-administration from those bodies. This could probably be said for any industry, for electricity, for energy, for transport, for banking. Of course, every industry and every governing body in the industry has certain special powers, functions, but the system laws are therefore systemic because they must be applied to all the same things, and the Constitutional Court ruling is so clear. If we're missing something in financial organizations, we're missing control. Labour supervision can only be a welcome news here, labour supervision will increase the transparency of these companies' operations and may reduce the opportunities for various distortions that have often taken place in our financial sector, perhaps not in insurance companies, but in reinsurance companies. Thus, in this spirit, in the United Left, we propose that our amendment to Articles 57 and 67, which speak practically of the same thing, take into account the ease of entry conditions for labour representatives in these insurance authorities, because: for the first time, we will allow labour co-ordination – let me remind you that economic democracy is on paper at least one of the commitments of this government, you even have a secretary for economic democracy in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. By adopting our amendments, we will allow greater transparency and supervision in insurance and reinsurance companies, by adopting our amendments, we avoid a potentially unconstitutional situation, since the Constitutional Court has already established judicial practice in 2003 and it has clearly stated that there are no reasonable reasons in the insurance sector to derogate from the system rules concerning labour co-management. After all, with our amendments, we will also make a significant contribution to the spirit of this Directive, because the spirit of this Directive is in no way and at no point should a working representative have a management function earlier than 5 years or be a supervisor on the capital side of the insurance undertaking, which the Government directly implies by its regulation. I'm counting on support, and if there's any confusion, we can talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u37	Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u38	Let me say that Article 75 of the Constitution does not prevent the manner and conditions of exercise of the right to co-ordination from being governed by several laws. Only that the co-ordination of workers in insurance companies with the provisions of the Insurance Act is otherwise regulated, as defined in the Law on the participation of workers in management, is not inconsistent with Article 75 of the Constitution. As the Constitutional Court has already established, cooperation in the management of representatives in company bodies is one of the appropriate and permissible means of exercising the right to co-decision, but the legal regime would not be inconsistent with Article 75 of the Constitution, even if the participation of workers in the supervisory world was not foreseen as a specific way of engaging workers in management. After a constitutional judgment has been suspended, the principle set out in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution does not mean that the provision should not otherwise regulate the same positions of legal entities, but that it must not do so voluntarily, without a reasonable and genuine reason. We believe that the reasons set out in the Insurance Act are reasonable and real and, for this reason, of course, the amendment to this Article and also to the 67th Article relating to the same matter will not be supported. Let me also point out that, because of the specificity of insurance companies managing insurance funds, it is said, by means of foreign means, that insurance companies are in fact specifically responsible for the specific tasks of members of the board and the supervisory board, and these are such that workers' representatives must be able to manage them equally to other members of the board and the supervisory board. Thus, they must have the same expertise and the same criteria apply to all members of the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u39	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Please, for your application. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. As I pointed out in the presentation of the Group's position on the amendment to the United Left, I would also like to reiterate in this debate that this is a solution that can solve the problem of excluding workers in the management of insurance companies. The Constitutional Court has already resolved this issue and has also found that a solution which does not allow workers to participate in the management of insurance companies, contrary to Article 14 of the Constitution and when it repeals the solutions in the previous law, also states that the annulment means that employees of insurance companies will also be subject to the general rules of the right to participate in the bodies of companies to any different legal regime, where the distinction will be based on reasonable and real reasons, as is the result of the previous paragraphs of the explanatory decision of the Constitutional Court. If we look at what the reasons are, why we should not be employees in the insurance administration, we will find, in fact, that all of this applies mainly to the fact that insurance companies are supposed to have a special meaning as financial institutions. So it is against the framework of financial institutions, something similar to what we have in the banking system – Banka Slovenije, business secrecy – in short, some distance from the real world, and this certainly is not an argument that would hold back the opinion that workers are not allowed to participate in the management of insurance companies. The second argument we are looking at is, in fact, the European Union Directive on insurance, but this directive does not talk about co-management of workers, but it does talk about the management of insurance companies and what kind of personnel there must be in those insurance companies. The co-ordination of workers is a specific provision which, of course, also needs to be specified in the law. This definition is not or is defined in law by excluding workers from co-management. If we also look at the conditions set out for participation in the administration, then we could find that it could represent workers under these conditions only someone who, for example, has already been or has been involved in the management of insurance companies. In addition, the Law on the Co-ordination of Workers in the Management of Enterprises opposes or prohibits former directors from representing workers in such companies. In order to avoid meeting in the future in the context of a constitutional review of this provision, it would be essential to adopt this amendment, to enable workers to be involved in the co-management of insurance companies, and thus can certainly do much to make the work of insurance companies even more operational, and above all, I hope to say more responsible for employees as well as for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, I fear that it may be one of the reasons why we should not participate in the co-management of employees, including in what the Insurance Supervisory Agency has written down in its position, which it has also provided in the context of the examination of this Insurance Act. In this letter, the Insurance Supervisory Agency has literally torn apart the Capital Investment Management Strategy Regulation adopted in the National Assembly and makes it very clear that this strategy for insurance is simply not in force and must not be taken into account because it is contrary to the Insurance Act that we are adopting today and with certain other laws. In fact, it calls on the Slovenian State Holding to respond to their letter on how they will take into account the implementation of the capital investment management strategy. However, the Capital Investment Management Strategy Regulation provides that insurance undertakings must invest a minimum of 30 per cent of all investments in covered funds in domestic instruments, and the Insurance Supervisory Agency in this letter clearly denies this direction of our insurance companies. And I'm just guessing, I'm speculating that this may be one of the additional reasons, because the Insurance Supervisory Agency has also participated in the debate at the Finance Committee and has explicitly opposed the participation of workers in corporate governance. This is an additional reason where I believe that we must be extremely careful, while, of course, this fact is confirmed by the fact that, because I objected to this Capital Investment Management Regulation, we have adopted a document that does not actually have any legal validity and will become a non-binding document, as it all appears in the field of insurance. This is when we talk about this law, which actually also allows an open market, if I may say so, within all 27 members of the European Union and three additional members involved in an economic association, the possibility that, of course, they are entering not only our market, but that they are actually trying to subdue this area, which is very well covered by Slovenia's insurance policy right now and is one of the more successful activities we have in Slovenia. So a very difficult situation that we need to be aware of, and many times it is with the help of employees and with simple consideration to prevent some speculative attempts, or the taking over of insurance companies, or the outflow of capital to other markets and then, of course, the loss of control over this capital. This is something we have experienced in banks, obviously in insurance companies in a much smaller scale, because they have always been somehow under control, if I may say so, of the pension fund and this liability for pensions has always encouraged us to be much more careful about how insurance management solutions are designed. With this law and with the implementation of the directive, these stories can change significantly very quickly and more than the functioning of insurance companies will be alienated from employees and more than insurance companies will be limited, as the Insurance Supervisory Agency says, to invest their inputs even in a certain percentage of Slovenia, it is more likely that we will actually have insurance in the future – I hope that not too much of a hole, but, above all, the capital outflow to other countries can certainly happen. This reduces the security of people, including security, if you want, of those who are insured, which is not the purpose of this law. I propose that we actually try with all seriousness to understand that workers will in no way harm their co-ordination, help them first, and therefore it is better to accept this amendment than to await once again the requirement for a constitutional review of Article 57. It is very likely that since the Constitutional Court has already ruled on this once before, there is once again that this law will have to be at this point. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u41	Ms Irena Sodin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The new standards and the new law introduce much stricter standards for the safe and prudent operation of insurance companies; what we have already highlighted at the outset. The requirements laid down in Article 42 of the European Regulation and the Directive specifically lay down that standards apply equally to all members of the management and control bodies and do not allow for a different treatment of any members of the labour representations. Therefore, the law does not prevent or prevent workers from representing workers in the management and control bodies under conditions that meet the same conditions as the so-called 'fit and proper' as other members of the management and control bodies. In accordance with Recital 35, it is required to assess the professionality of the qualifications of each member of these bodies separately, as is the case with banking, in the field of insurance, that each member of the Administrative or Supervisory Board together and individually meet all the requirements arising from the Directive. In insurance companies, the specific tasks of the members of the board and the supervisory board are such that they must also be managed by representatives of workers equivalent to other members of the board and the supervisory board. Thus, the conditions of the law applicable to members of these councils are objectively justified and demonstrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u43	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this article? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Madam Secretary of State says that the law alone does not prevent workers from co-managing. Maybe if we just read the letter of the law, it doesn't say it's forbidden to work together. But if we think about the implications of these sharp standards that you have set - and you have to admit that they are significantly sharper than the European Directive - it is immediately clear that no employee will meet these criteria unless the insurance director or a member of the supervisory board on the capital side firstly makes sense of the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. Once again; the Act on the participation of workers in management is therefore Article 75 of the Constitution, which allows employees or employees the right to co-operate businesses, is here precisely so that workers can participate in decision-making processes in the company, to participate in supervision in the company and to exercise their interest as employees through this. If we put some former managers in these places that are supposed to belong to the workers’ overseers, we know that this is a completely different type of activity. In fact, this makes no sense to any word about labour management because it loses all meaning. The former manager thinks in the logic of the former manager, the former supervisor who previously represented the capital side has the logic of this capital side and is not engaged in the interests of employees, so only those who work in this company can do so, not their former bosses. In this respect, the law is just as unconstitutional as the Constitutional Court ruled in 2003, and here I point out that the representative union is in insurance and the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia – both wrote the same assessment of this law, that it is an unconstitutional situation, that it is a situation when labour co-administration is turned into management co-ordination, that it is directly contrary to the SDU and Article 75 of the Constitution. I am reminding the coalition here because something quickly can happen that someone will also constitutionally complain about this evident non-constitutional arrangement. But if I could answer my colleague, that's what I'd say. I mean, this is a legal issue up to this point when we ask ourselves whether it is a permissible derogation from the system regime, it is said, the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, and whether it is a violation of Article 75 of the Constitution. In my opinion, the answer is yes. But for you as a coalition, it is not only a legal issue, but mainly a political issue. For you, this is the question of which direction you want to take this country: whether you want to take economic democracy – which is also one of your nominal ones, for example, the direction both in the coalition treaty and that in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government, the Secretary of Economic Democracy – I think it means something and that it should also mean something when we adopt such laws – or you want to continue, say, the management of banks and insurance companies in particular, which we have seen in the last ten years, how it ended. If I tell you just one example of banking, where the story is very similar to insurance, they hide there too, because the banks have deposits, they say by foreign means and that this is therefore some specific responsibility where workers should get as far as possible involved in management. But look, the more we kick the employees out of management, the less control and the less control, the more autonomy the managers have, and the greater the autonomy of the managers, the greater the chances of bad business decisions. If we look at the macro level, I'll give you a case of cumulatively poor business decisions. In 2004, Slovenia's external debt – said to be a common debt of banks, businesses, countries and households – was EUR 12 billion. Four years later, it grew to EUR 40 billion. Thus, it has increased by EUR 28 billion in just four years. And who's most responsible for this? The most responsible for this is this particular management class, which has apparently invested in companies in violation of the ability of these companies, has taken irrational business decisions in banks, and in banks are responsible for these managers who have approved these bad loans. You now continue to leave them unsupervised by such regulations. We will continue to have a management caste that will work according to the inertia of its own class, which has its own interests, and instead of asking ourselves at this point whether it would be possible to tighten internal control here also in financial institutions, insurance companies and banks, is your answer: no. Let's give the former managers – it's said to those who have already turned out to be in a bad business – now the chance to occupy those positions in these companies that belong to the workers; it's said, the positions of labour representatives in the supervisory boards, the job director's seat. This will now belong to former overseers and former managers. I don't know if this is really a new policy that you promised or imagine what the legacy of such a policy will be in 10 years. This formula, which you are now introducing with these laws, has already proved ineffective and we are already paying a price for it. The 40 billion external debt that was raised in 2008 has become public debt over the last seven years. As a result of our public debt, we have over a billion euros in interest each year, with billions of euros in interest on all the subsystems of this society, all the social, health and pension funds. My call here is not only to respect the Constitution and to respect the system's arrangements, to take into account the representative union and the Association of Workers' Councils, my call here is to consider the management model in this country that you are introducing with such laws. I emphasize; what you are now introducing has turned out to be a falsified time, and it would be a time to go the other way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. It is a demanding law, ladies and gentlemen, a professional law which is basically good. Now we have all come together to stop at this Article 57, and this is usually the way when we talk in the National Assembly, we focus on one article and then on this article, we break spears in some way. I listened to Luke, and I also listened to Janko, and I have to say that thinking is absolutely close to me. If we look at the back stories and look at the definition of what a working director means, then we know what a working director is and what the purpose is for a working director to be present in the administration. The worst part is, if the working director is, now I'm going to say a bad word, it's coming together with the administration, and it's not in any way in the job director's office. Of course, the primary task of a member of the board, in this case a working director, is to take care of the company, both economically and in the second part. To write down in the law that the Labour Director - and here clearly says - is only a person who was already or the President of the Administration or a member of the administration and so on, and believe me, that such a person has a much less perspective on what is done on the first step than on the last step, it seems to me extremely unrealistic. Workers in important companies, believe me, they know how to choose a working director. A man like that goes through a sieve, and people trust him in a factory or in a company. And that seems crucial to me. We have some good practices in Slovenia, where we have workers' directors representing, of course, the values of work, while at the same time, that the company is doing well. That is why I must say that I will in any case support this amendment, because with this, ladies and gentlemen, this law will not be any worse, and we will give the signal that it is particularly important that companies do well. You know, if everything was as ideal as it is in this basic article, they wouldn't be paying me billions of euros in interest on credit today. Who in Slovenia made these loans? A few policies, we who in some way owed ourselves, but a great deal of them came out of bad governance. In a few years, we had to cover a 5 billion-dollar hole in banks because of the economic decisions of these managers, which we would now put into all these times. Even in the insurance company, some know very well, even in the insurance company there have been a number of investments in the past, and some things that have made great downsides to our insurance company, I am talking about Triglav. But since it's such a good company, it's covered it, but it's done something 10 times, not to mention hundreds of millions of bad investments. It's a good thing, ladies and gentlemen, that a member of the board of directors has come and gone through the entire procedure. Believe me, these people will be able to take part in the board of directors for the benefit of the company and for the benefit of the people, so I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 57 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 67 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you. There's only a brief explanation. Article 67 deals practically with the same problem as that of 57. This Article is referred to as the question of labour co-ordination and the question of the criteria for working representatives on boards and supervisory boards of companies. As I said before, in the United Left we advocate that these criteria be wronged to allow workers to actually co-operate in insurance companies. By doing so, we are not in breach of the European Union directive at any level, because we have read it carefully and we have written our amendments in a way that follows the spirit and the letters of this Directive while at the same time ensuring that workers can co-operate in insurance companies. This law, as Matjaž Han said, will not be any worse, but we will contribute significantly to the development of economic democracy in Slovenia. We will follow the spirit of Article 75 of the Constitution. We will implement the USSD system law and perhaps take a small step away from that paradigm that I described earlier; it is said, from a paradigm where managers have complete autonomy, where managers as new gods decide everything, and no one can control them, because from within we disable employees and from outside they hide behind such and other banking secrets. I think that this is a point that we have to cut off if we want this country, but especially for the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 92 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Nova Slovenija Group has tabled an amendment to article 92, which is essentially in the direction of how the electoral system of the mutual insurance company is organised, where our regime, which does not reflect the will of the electorate on the right of the individual alternate representative to join the mandate of the representative, when this term ends prematurely. Perhaps for a brief explanation I would like to read or clarify, since matters are in some way difficult to understand, I would say how this is indicated in the case. To illustrate: Mr Matthew, who would leave his term early as the first in a certain age class, would be appointed as the first alternate representative, for example, mentioned Tomaž, who was ranked 5th in the number of votes received among 18 alternate representatives, and Michael, second deputy, ranked 14th. By entering the mandate of Deputy Representative Matei, Deputy Representative Tomaž, it is said that when someone who was elected after him or received the second largest number of votes, he would have had an unwarranted advantage over the other four alternate representatives who received more votes than Tomaž in the general elections by the voters. It is worth noting that candidates in general elections act exclusively as natural persons as members of the Mutual Insurance Society, so any analogy with political parties where, in the event of the termination of the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly, a person from the same political party is replaced entirely by a person from the number of votes received and therefore is not supported by a defined electoral system. We have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 92 in the New Slovenia Group. I hope you have read the whole justification, because the electoral system for members is different from the electoral system for the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Iva Dimic. Anybody else want to discuss this? Marusha Skopac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. This 92nd Article was amended at the time of the adoption of the law by coalition parliamentary groups, at the request of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states that it is already necessary to define clearly in the law which of the alternate representatives becomes representative of the member in the event of the early termination of the term of office of representatives of members. To this end, it is now clearly stated in the law that each representative must have a member of the first and second alternate. For this reason, we cannot agree with the amendment and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 96 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Parliamentary Group also tabled an amendment to Article 96. For a brief explanation, I should like to state why the current system of election to the Assembly of Members sets out the conditions that the representative must fulfil in order to carry out the mandate of the representative of the members. It is only the representative of the members who executes the mandate that the alternate representatives do not exercise the mandate, but only the function. It is therefore appropriate to lay down the conditions only for an agent for which the term of office is terminated prematurely. Whether the alternate representative fulfils the conditions for entering the representative's term of office, shall be checked at the time of the occurrence of each particular case when the alternate representative has the right to enter the representative's term of office. If the conditions are not met, it shall be deemed not to have the right to enter the mandate of a representative. This also means automatic termination of the function of alternate representative. The failure to provide for an early termination of the term of office for the first and second alternate representatives also stems from the amendment to Article 92 and the explanation for the proposed amendment, and we have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 96. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u56	As previously stated, Article 96 was also amended at the time of the adoption of the law by coalition groups, and this was also on the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service, since the mandate may be terminated prematurely by the representative of the members, it may also be premature to terminate the first and second alternate representatives, which, according to the Law-Legal Service, had to be properly and clearly defined in the law itself. That's why we won't support this amendment either.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u57	Anyone else want to discuss Article 96 and the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 494 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 611 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 616 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 617 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude this debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 32nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 31. It's a day's work. This is a second proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Republic of Slovenia's measures to protect the stability of banks under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Method Dragonji, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u58	Madam Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a new Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Since 2012, no changes have been made, although this is an important system law that provided a basis for the rehabilitation of banks of the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time a basis for the stability of the banking system as a whole. Despite many assessments and discussions as to whether the resolution of the banking system was appropriate, the law has established an appropriate system framework for this challenging task. The secondary question is how these measures have been implemented, which is and will be subject to a number of assessments and audits, some of which are already under way. We can simply say that the law in force governs two areas. First, they represent measures to strengthen the stability of banks, namely their content, their conditions and their implementation process. The second area is the structure and rules of operation of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. In the first area, this is the content of measures to strengthen the stability of banks; the proposal now submitted is without prejudice to the novelty. The aim of the novel is not to create a new framework for bank resolution, which will be re-established by a law which will bring about a directive on bank termination and resolution and which the Republic of Slovenia is required to adopt in the following year. The aim of the novel is to ensure a successful and favourable completion of bank recovery processes for taxpayers. The proposal therefore contains only solutions which we believe are necessary so that the rehabilitation of banks under the provisions of the current law can be successfully completed. The main issues related to the successful completion of bank recovery are, however, how to reduce falling but still a significant share of poor credits in the Slovenian banking system, and how to most effectively complete the controlled winding-up procedures of banks following a controlled liquidation process. As the objective of the DUTB operation, the novelty will set out the objective of restructuring businesses. It will thus be ensured that the DUTB does not ask itself what it can and cannot do, but that the restructuring will not take place under too much time and that the DUTB will also have enough time to sell the assets entrusted to it in management. As supporting material of the amendment, the Government submitted to the Members and Members the revised DUTB Annual Report 2014 and the business plan or strategy for the extended period of operation until 2032. One of the objectives of the proposal is also to prevent debtors whose liabilities have been transferred to the DUTB as risk items from being able to achieve, by themselves or through persons associated with them, that their debt will be extinguished without being repaid in whole. When the amendment of the coalition to Article 8 is adopted, the proposal will prohibit DUTB's claim as a risk item from being transferred to the debtor, members of his management, his associates and the companies which are related to the debtor in a way that would allow the debtor to influence the operation of those companies. Allow me to conclude by stressing that the basic starting point of the novel is to respect the independence of the DUTB, while also following the objectives of transparent, efficient and economic functioning of the DUTB and taking into account the numerous recommendations made by the Court of Auditors from the audit carried out. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government proposes that a third consideration of the draft law be held at this meeting. The government proposes that the proposed amendment of the law be supported by the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u60	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! Within the framework of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, at its 14th regular meeting on 6 November 2015, we considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and the representative of the ZPS explained that most of the comments in the opinion were duly taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups. Additional explanations were also provided by the applicant. We have also received the opinion of the competent Commission of the Council of State, which supported the proposal. The amendments were received by the following parliamentary groups: SDS, the United Left, as well as by the SMC, Desus and SD coalition parliamentary groups, and three proposals from the Committee's amendments were also submitted by the coalition groups and one amendment by the Committee's Group of Non-Aligned Members. The representative of the proposer stressed that the proposal retains the essential purpose of the basic law when adding a new objective for the prudent and efficient restructuring of companies whose partner or creditor is the Bank Claims Management Company – or a bad bank – even a conversational one. Since the basic objective is to ensure a successful, favourable completion of the process by taxpayers, the recovery of banks only contains the text of an urgent solution in the direction of the bank’s recovery and the successful completion of the Bank’s Claims Management Company, hereinafter referred to as DUTB. The note proposes solutions related to the extension of the DUTB's existence and operation and the liquidation of assets, additional solutions for ensuring the efficiency of the operation and improving control of DUTB, the DUTB's business restructuring and competences in relation to acquisition of shares in other companies, the establishment of a clear gap between the powers of executive and non-executive directors and the strengthening of the independence of the DUTB's operation. In particular, specific provisions have been highlighted regarding restrictions on the sale of claims to debtors in relation to prosecution and detection of offences and the limitation of obligations to the extent of State guarantees on DUTB liabilities issued. The envisaged solutions will, according to the applicant, help to strengthen the stability of banks while ensuring the stability of the financial system and at the same time allow for an effective restructuring of companies whose partner or creditor is DUTB. In addition, it will facilitate the identification of irregularities related to investments transferred to the DUTB as risk items while ensuring the economic use and recovery of the funds budgets. In the discussion, representatives of the parliamentary groups who did not express support for the text expressed a number of concerns about the applicant's presentation, also addressing a number of issues, namely the question of the fulfilment of the basic purpose of the bad bank in relation to the credit crunch, which, despite the extensive means, has not yet given up; the possible duplication of the activities of the Slovenian State holding company with the tasks of the DUTB; the identification of responsibility for the granting of bad loans; the independence of the DUTB in relation to external and internal control, as well as the prevention of cases where members of the management or debtor's owners, through the transfer of bad claims to the bad bank, have regained claims or shares in companies at discount price. Furthermore, questions were raised as to the projected costs of restructuring, calls and calls, related interests and price-related amounts of advisory contracts. The proposer highlighted the issue of credit crunch as a broader systemic issue affecting many factors, including the tightening of banking regulations. In particular, the organisational importance of the bad bank in coordination with other stakeholders in the process of more complex restructuring of companies with more banks and other creditors in the execution of business and financial restructuring has been highlighted. As regards the operating costs of the DUTB, it was submitted that in 2013 it amounted to EUR 5.2 million and in 2014 and is also expected to be under one percentage of the assets. Furthermore, the proposaler explained that solutions follow models of private banks abroad, but since the bank is 100 % public-owned, the standards of transparency and supervision must be higher. The applicant also explained that SDH’s powers do not overlap as DUTB manages its assets, while SDH manages the state’s assets. The Committee further adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups and rejected the remaining amendments or they became irrelevant due to previous amendments. In conclusion, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you, again, for your word and once again a nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, where we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. However, I would like to say in the introduction that at the very beginning of the Banks Stability Act, we were very strongly opposed to this law, because actually a bad bank means the most expensive possible way to save banks and also opens up a number of speculations about what will happen to these companies and, of course, claims. The main purpose of the law was actually to sell private businesses quickly; of course, before that they maintain themselves and remain actually poor claims on citizens. The small proportion of 30 %, as was actually shown on average, as the value of the claims transferred from the bank to the bad bank is then sold with a possible even profit. For example, you sell for 35 percent, and whoever sells it says it was successful. In short, the sale of companies would, of course, only make sense in cases like those in other countries if they were selling claims relating to real estate; hence, the companies that built the apartments and could not sell it have created bad claims. This is actually possible to sell and this is also being resolved in other countries. In fact, claims or undertakings that did not deal with real estate were also transferred to a bad bank but were organised in completely different areas. In fact, at some point we got overlaps with the operation of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which was essentially set up to manage the assets, and we had a bad bank, which was not qualified to manage the assets because its primary purpose was to sell. We are solving this problem right now with this law, because if we stayed in this solution to sell more than five hundred companies quickly by 2017, it means that we would have very many bankruptcys in Slovenia, it means that we would have very much unemployment and, last but not least, very much poverty because of this. This law will ease this by allowing a bad bank to also credit those companies that are in a bad bank and thus allow them to restructure, but still with a final objective of sale. However, this will happen after this law at the latest, it can be there somewhere in 2022, but at the moment the consequences of the possible rapid sale of companies are substantially mitigated, and of course, by this large unemployment rate due to bankruptcy. These high costs, however, are a fact and this was also one of the reasons why we opposed the bad bank. In fact, a significantly cheaper option would be to maintain bad claims on banks and to resolve bad claims within themselves. In this way, banks are burdened, they have received bad bank bonds, and in fact, when we allow a bad bank to lend these companies, we are setting up one parallel bank, which will have to provide significantly more funds and significantly more money will be spent from this restructuring for the purpose of the operation of the bad bank itself than if it remained at commercial banks. Nor can we get rid of the fact that we must be extremely careful that there is no excessive speculation in this transfer mechanism. In fact, the fact is that someone could deliberately leave a bad claim on the bank. 70 percent of these claims remain there, 30 is at a disadvantage and then buy back this claim – at a reduced price of course, cleared of all liabilities or practically credits. Therefore, one of the important amendments to this law is the amendment, which just speaks about it and means that only those who were not involved or even members of the board of directors could buy the bad claims that DUTB sells, or were even members of the board when bad claims were made, or even more important to prevent abuse, by extending the range of potential buyers to their related persons. This is one of the mechanisms that we hope will significantly ease this lack of transparency and speculation that can happen. Of course, there is no clear relationship to those who may have been employed at the time of bank hole formation, but today the authorities manage bad banks as executive or as non-executive directors. That's another question. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you and a nice hello again. The new Bad Bank Act is an opportunity to address the causes of the bad functioning of this bad bank and finally to ensure that it exercises public interest. In fact, since the bad bank has been operating, it has diverged from the public interest both in the area of wage policy and in the field of its basic function, this is the rehabilitation of businesses. If we want it to work in the public interest, we need to focus on three areas: firstly, human resources and wage policy, secondly, the objectives and methods of the DUTB and thirdly, it is necessary to regulate its functioning in particular. If I go in line. In terms of salary and human resources policy, virtually everything has already been said at the various board meetings. Nevertheless, the government has not done enough to actually eliminate these anomalies, and thus there are still people on the board of directors who are obviously in conflict of interest and who are at least objectively responsible for the violations that are taking place in this institution. In addition, the law before us still insists that a bad bank will not be subject to the system law on the salaries of managers in state companies, so called the Law of Laholovnik. Today's debate will be fruitful if we are able to overcome this and to remove this unacceptable exception from the system regime. Then we'll go to the surveillance area. There are also major shortcomings here, which the novel partially eliminates, but not decisively enough. It foresees that supervision will now be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, but at the same time does not give it sufficient authority to collect information. In fact, if we really want to ensure control, the Ministry must also have access to confidential data, because we do not forget, the last instance of the claim is in fact a credit card and those who do not have access to credit cards have no view of bad claims, have no insight into the matter with which the bank operates. The second reserve in the field of surveillance is again supervised by employees. In a bad bank, I obtained data after a month and a half waiting to have 103 employees, and even in this case there is no reason why the system law would not apply here and why what is enshrined in Article 75 of the Constitution would not apply here. In fact, if management does not have a moral compass and integrity, this is not yet the case for all employees in a bad bank, on the contrary; those who were at the top are probably exceptions rather than rules. The last key question is what do we expect from a bad bank? What's her general function? It was the idea of the founders of a bad bank to sell the claims quickly and thereby privatise the indebted companies or what will remain of them. This is certainly not a public interest. The public interest is very clear; it is that companies are being rehabilitated and as many jobs as possible are being maintained. Here in the United Left, we stress that the novel brings progress both in terms of goals and methods, but also in this area, unfortunately, is still too short. The weak bank has two functions, and the sale of claims requires it to pay off the bonds with which it has redeemed those claims and, on the other hand, it has to recover the companies. These objectives, such as sales and rehabilitation, are to some extent contrary, but there is a solution that is in the public interest. There is no need to maintain any clause in the law that a bad bank has to deal with profits. We propose, and I will present this later in the amendment, simply to impose on it to fulfil its minimum legal obligations, while at the same time to get as many companies as possible to recover, and to keep shares in companies that are not strategically relevant, or to turn them over to SDH's pre-emptive rights and employees, which is what this novelty does. In this way, we will solve the optimal number of businesses that are in difficulty, the optimal number of jobs, and thus ensure that this bad bank is actually operating on a wider public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The new Slovenia – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u66	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Today's amendments to the Law on Measures to Strengthen Bank Stability are so extensive that, in our opinion, – and thus, we share an opinion with the Legislative and Legal Service – it is not necessary to amend, but rather to prepare a new law. In view of the proposed content of the amendments and the additions, they are substantially above the planned objectives and objectives of the Basic Bad Bank Act, which was the basis for the establishment of the Bank's Claims Management Company, d.d., whose primary purpose is to take over or buy back bad claims from system banks, then manage these claims and finally sell them off at a certain level – 10 per cent of claims are resold each year. With today's proposed amendment to the Act on Measures to Enhance Bank Stability, the operation of the DUTB is being extended, according to the Bank's Claims Management Company, for five years, until 2022. DUTB is given more new powers in the area of business restructuring. The company for the management of bank claims, short-term so-called DUTB, will be able to cooperate in the restructuring of companies with any legal business that will enable the debtor to become able to pay. This means that the debtors can also be granted loans or issued a guarantee, which has not been clearly foreseen so far. If there is a possibility of increasing the value of the claim or the share of the DUTB, the bad bank will also be able to recapitalise the company. The bill also sets out how and under what conditions the DUTB may participate in the restructuring of companies. Of course, in any such financial restructuring, the bad bank must comply with the strict rules of the European Union on State aid. We can say that the bill introduces solutions that are necessary and welcome, but there is a risk that in individual cases there will be overlaps between the Governing Board and SDH claims, and in some cases even conflicts of interest. The new law also introduces greater powers of the Ministry of Finance over the operations of DUTB, including on the business of the management board of this company. With regard to the greater powers of the Ministry in this area, there is also a greater responsibility of the Ministry of Finance for the business of DUTB itself, which is a company with 100 % ownership of the State. We hope the Ministry is aware of this responsibility. At this point, we cannot go beyond the current developments in the DUTB, particularly with regard to the recent recruitment of the government in this society. On this subject, in Novi Slovenija we requested an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, namely the appointment of Mark Simoneti to the post of non-executed director, which raises important questions about compliance with the provisions regarding the prevention of conflicts of interest. Marko Simoneti was a representative of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank from 2009 to 2012, from which the worst claims were transferred to the DUTB. We will discuss this subject at an extraordinary meeting and the Government will have to make some clarifications on this subject. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supporting the draft amendments and supplementing the Law on Bank Measures to Strengthen Bank Stability, but let us predict a thorough debate on the recent staffing of the government in the DURB.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek, group of unrelated Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u68	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We've talked about DUTB and the DUTB issue many times. Now we will not discuss whether the solution was right and appropriate at this time, now we have a bad bank and we need to save what we can. In doing so, we have always been constructive members of the group of unrelated Members, and we are also proposing some solutions. A key problem is whether the legislation aims to sell or restructure and manage further. Solutions are moving in a new direction and a number of questions are being raised here. The problem is when DUTB appears as an offshore legislative firm; it is said that legislation, in particular as regards insolvency legislation, is in conflict with the DUTB and is not applicable. So we have to solve this problem. The biggest problem is risk management, which is where we have the most comments. If we look at the old law, we see that the problem of old legislation, when we first implemented a single system that we implemented from the United States of America and applied to the European-German system, so there are many problems. The second problem is poor risk management and the third main problem is the extraterritorial legislative area. The novel brings certain solutions; if I continue to go on a single management system. The problem is that the State as owner does not exercise proper control and is not trained enough to exercise this control, but does not hope to exercise this control and assume responsibility. Non-executive directors, if we look at the United States of America, should carry out their activities themselves, to the full, rather than being employed in several institutions. I think it's such a responsible business that, like in America, we should do it ourselves. The next is that the exception to legislation is by no means possible and that all legislation should be harmonised and applied both to the bad bank and to all other institutions. If we go to the last one on restructuring, I have a problem because the first legislation was aimed at selling, the second legislation is more focused on restructuring, but it is not clear where the funds for such restructuring and purchase will be obtained, and how much and what experts we will have to employ to do so; and this is linked to my implementation that we have not yet received a concrete assessment of how much the bad bank is actually costing us. If I go to risk management as that central centre, which is a problem for both Slovenia and some European countries, but I can say that we have been constructive on the committee – that first proposal that we had at the marathon meeting that we had on this issue after the pause that the SMC Group requested, we have received an improved version and the promise of the Group of Members that the matter will be better regulated. [[…]] The proposal before us and the amendments to this Article 8 are going in the right direction and setting those minimum conditions and, of course, the key problem will be how we implement the law and what control it will be. We have also identified some of the shortcomings and, in view of the challenges presented by the parliamentary group, we have been constructive in these proposals, so we will table an amendment to Article 8 in the third reading and call on the Modern Centre Party to join and support this amendment. However, the amendment is aimed at adding prohibitions, namely for persons who have reviewed funds or carried out burden tests and have advised that it will not be possible for those who have caused a bank hole and who are present in the transfer to purchase very cheap claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In addition to identifying the reasons for the bank hole and the sanctioning of those responsible for it, we believe in the SMC that appropriate conditions should be provided for the reimbursement of the tax money spent on the remediation of the damage. Dutb is the institution that is first called for this, and our view is that this important institution needs to be given both legal and political support in order to ensure that the tax money is reimbursed to the state budget to the greatest extent. The new Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in our view brings urgent reconstruction and this includes the following. Firstly, new tools for the financial and business restructuring of companies. Without tools that would enable effective restructuring, assets would be only as valuable as assets, and not as much as a viable business that is financially stable has a business perspective for the future and brings a positive cash flow. For example, if you sell a separate stock, a building and a machine, it is certainly less valuable than if you sell a functioning business, where employees are also established, where relations with stakeholders are coordinated and where there is a stable financial structure that allows future business. Secondly, the possibility of efficient business transformation is of particular importance, namely, financial and business, through the coordination of different creditors' consortia, where the DUTB, with its set of knowledge and resources, must, after all, take an active role and take the initiative for the purpose it was set up. Next. The conditions for the disposal of 10 per cent of assets in order to reach an annual inflow of 10 per cent of the funds obtained are changed, which also highlights the inflows from effective asset management. It is also worth mentioning the extension of the DUTB for 5 years – abroad are comparable durations of action 5 to 15 years. In this way, we also estimate that the pressure on the possible forced sale or the accelerated sale of funds at all costs will be released, thus also ensuring greater flexibility for the operators or the management of the DUTB and thus greater revenue for taxpayers. The Novela also provides an improvement in the control of the operation of the DUTB without interfering with its operation. The additional powers of the Ministry of Finance are conferred on them so that they can carry out more intensive supervision, but they cannot be involved in individual DUTB operations, which is crucial for ensuring independence and thus clear responsibilities of the management of the DUTB. The former Manka is now also being compensated for, as regards the single management system, which has somehow been new to us or has not been used so regularly, and the powers are now clearer; in particular in terms of allocated powers, as regards independence, these also directly give rise to clear responsibility. As far as preventing abuse is concerned, in particular in the purchase of claims and the acquisition of shares with the discount – Article 8 was already mentioned here by colleague Dobovška, who we have also completed and we have tied ourselves to the takeover legislation that we think has good limitations. Above all, we are talking about the need to ensure that abuse prevention is somehow ensured, including in the second, third and next generations, that those who once operated or were somehow or otherwise connected to those companies that have become in difficulty and have been transferred to a bad bank cannot now receive a discount buying-in of these assets or shares. As far as transparency is concerned, we have also followed the SDS and the United Left proposals, which have proposed that, as far as transparency is concerned, the National Assembly also participates in reporting, and we have also proposed and adopted this amendment. And if we go from here on out: what we think this law brings is, last but not least, easier to refinance the DUTB obligation and thereby reduce the exposure of the country. DUTB issued bonds with the State guarantee. Your Honor! In the SMC, we believe that the novelty will help to recover the tax money invested in the recapitalisation of banks to a greater extent than it could have been without upgrading this law. We will therefore support the proposal in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, for which the Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam President. This is a new law that continues the government's campaign on state property and government property management. In its documents, the government cited several reasons for the amendment of the ZUKSB, namely a law which was primarily intended to remedy banking crime and also to determine the responsibility for the creation of a bank hole. Among other reasons, the government points out that they want to facilitate the identification of irregularities in the allocation of credits with this novel. Let us just look at the comparison of the articles that provide for this in the old, that is to say, the current marriage text and the new. The old legal text in Article 3 states that one of the basic purposes of the law is to determine the responsibility for the creation of bad loans and investments. The government changes this dictatorship with a novel and writes only that it wants to facilitate the identification of the irregularities that have led. Further, it states from the reasons for the change that, due to legal malnutrition, the deletion of the power to confiscate property. To the question of how many such seizures, if irregular or inconsistent, were under current legislation, the government’s reply was nothing. It also states that there is no reason for the DUTB to have to initiate judicial proceedings. The answer to the same question as to how many such cases have been carried out in the past period was nothing. The Government also cites the fact that there is no reason for the DUB to act as a private prosecutor. The answer to the question of how many such cases were in the past legislation was nothing. The government also cites as a reason the greater independence of the administration and, on the other hand, as we have heard, increases the powers of the Ministry of Finance to control the functioning of the bad bank. In short, the reasons given as reasons for the change with the ZUKSB are those who speak in the opposite direction. As a reason, the Government also cited two studies of foreign organisations of the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, the International Monetary Fund, in a special study on the bad bank at the end of February 2015, stated that it was crucial for the DUTB to maintain independent management. Remember, that was before the first DUTB chapter. At the end of May 2015, the European Commission wrote, in some way, before the second chapter of the DUTB, when it got rid of all foreigners, that there was a need to maintain sound corporate governance in the company for the management of claims. The emphasis is on conservation, not insurance. Security! The government, however, comes with a legislative proposal that violates this corporate governance and independent governance and directly under the influence of the Ministry of Finance. This is a marriage proposal, which will cost us taxpayers 200 million euros in 2016, an additional 100 million euros in 2017. I wonder how many cops need; I think less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, ma'am. Good-bye, everyone. Your Honor! The bill allows for an effective restructuring of companies whose partner or creditor has become, in order to implement measures to strengthen the stability of banks, a Company for the management of bank claims or, in short, a DUTB that can participate in the restructuring of an economic company with any legal business that can enable its debtor to become able to become able to pay in the short or long term. This means that it can grant a loan to act as a debtor’s marriage and can guarantee the bank’s fulfilment of the debtor’s obligation. In the Desus Group, we are aware that a proactive long-term approach to restructuring companies will also enable banks to operate better, as they need healthy companies to lend money for their basic activity. The law currently in force provides for the determination of liability for the creation of bad loans and investments transferred as risky items to the DUTB. The Dictation of accountability is transformed by a new proposal to facilitate the identification of irregularities, as the DUTB does not have the investigative powers or knowledge necessary to detect infringements. All he can do is suspect the crime committed is reported to the competent authorities. In recent times, unfortunately, we have witnessed the constant media exposure of the DUTB. Some of the problems were caused by her management, which was later faced with consequences, and some stories served, as usual, the collection of political points. In the Desus Group, we therefore agree with the provision that DUTB must provide the Ministry of Finance with any documentation and any information the Ministry needs to carry out its supervision. The DUTB Ministry can provide guidance and it must follow them, but these guidelines must be general and must not provide guidance on how to proceed in a particular case. However, it will still have no jurisdiction to interfere with its daily business decisions. The proposed law extends the period of existence of DUTB until 31 December 2022. The DUTB was not established to sell funds under pressure and at any cost, but rather to find a suitable buyer and to pay as much of the budget as possible. As stated above, DUTB must primarily operate transparently, economically, efficiently and effectively. In an effort to ensure maximum transparency, however, it must be possible to reconstruct the decision-making procedures for the conclusion of individual legal transactions. In the Desus Group, we have always argued that the proposal for a law must specify to whom the DUTB can transfer the claims which the holder has become in the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks. We believe that the solution will eliminate any fraud by the debtors, members of the debtor's management at the time the claim was made or associated with them. We will support the proposal in our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! I will also allow myself somehow a few words for the introduction itself, given that the topic is the right one and it is also right that before the adoption of this law we will somehow get closer to some of the forces of important matters. I'll start with the next one. The bank's claim management company was set up as an agent that concentrated claims and then sold them as soon as possible. The logic behind this is simple, so to speak, to find the responsible owner as soon as possible. Whether this model, which was adopted and implemented, was in line with high expectations, if I may say so, not only professional, but also lay public opinion, carried out. At the time of the establishment of this company for the management of claims, I believe, the approach of that year, if I may say so, was very good 2011-2012. It is true, however, that he probably did not live in the same way that the proposer did or that the then drafters of such a law imagined in those given circumstances and realities was also optimal. He was. I must also admit that I very much agree, especially with regard to the decision at the time, on the form of management of such a society, given that today we also have a question on the part of an individual Member, whether single management has been right or not. I myself stand firm in the view that this is the only right thing to do — for a uniform form of company management. For the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, I personally assess that it represents a new business model for the management of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. And this one, which is also very detailed and quite understandable in the material, is that this law extends the power of the society itself. What exactly does that mean? It means that the company can actively participate in the process of its management in the so-called restructuring of companies. The law currently in force simply does not explicitly state this, so it is right that it is a complement, because it concerns this competence, because it allows the Company to manage the bank's claims that its assets – I will not touch the form of the company here – so that it can be actively involved in the restructuring processes of the companies in which it has its claims. This means that so far the three-year operation or operation of the Bank Claims Management Company somehow prevents us from having a different approach. I am looking at this issue in particular with the fact that there is still a need to preserve that fundamental importance of the mission, it is said, by maximising the profit generated by the sale of claims. And here I have no doubt that this process will continue. However, it is necessary and necessary to add this part, which I have also mentioned in the introduction, that is to say, the restructuring of companies, in those, as is known, where claims from the banks' bad claims are made, for those healthy parts of these companies that have a real opportunity or even are kept in the competitiveness market, and here we must also remember that this also keeps jobs. Surely, however, the essence of this, at least to the extent that I understand such a form of restructuring and amending the law, is to find responsible owners as soon as possible. It is not said that this is to be maintained indefinitely by so-called state property. Therefore, I believe that the proposed business model should be approached, allowing for the real maximisation of the proceeds from the claims made in the process of stabilisation of the banking system. So much for now. I'll be happy to join you further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. The very history of the operation of this institution is somewhat different from that of my colleague Verbič. In fact, when we look forward to 2012 when a bad bank was set up, we see that it went from one scandal to another, from one affair to another, from one affair to another, from one problem to another, and on this path it created more problems than it solved. At the beginning, virtually all economists, at least those not entirely orthodox, warned that the way to solve the debt crisis with a bad bank is too expensive and that there is a significantly more effective option, this is a normal recapitalisation of banks. In fact, if we recapitalised the banks in a classic way, we would save both money and not all these expensive stress tests should be recalculated and then converted into new scandals while relying on existing capacities in banks, it is said, on those who granted loans, those who manage credits. Of course, control should be increased, but in this way it would enable the organic resolution of the debt crisis, and so we went to a completely new model, which turned out to be completely inappropriate. It started when Banka Slovenije ordered stress tests. We know how these stress tests worked. For a long time, it has been rumbling around the country that students were driving through Slovenian towns, which through the last windows of cars described the value of buildings along these roads. We know that two stress tests have been made, which differed by 45% of the value, and the choice has been worse. We know that the average value of the discount claims, after which loans were transferred to a bad bank, was 70 % in Slovenia, which is a European record. We know that we have spent at least EUR 5 billion on the whole process. In fact, the bad bank didn't remove the credit crunch, as promised. On the contrary, in the coming years 2013 and 2014, despite the establishment of a bad bank, an additional EUR 3.6 billion of recapitalisations were needed. And even today, the credit crunch lasts, more than a third of companies have difficulty accessing credits. But in a bad bank, we've come to a new affair. The last affair was a wage affair, when Slovenia found a year later that these Swedish bankers were simply pulling our noses, and we lost it again, the government lost its reputation in the eyes of citizens, not only the government, but also the country as a whole. The country as a whole is losing its reputation in this way in the international community, because we look at such moves as a banana republic, which can only be done as it pleases. The poor cumulative bank is causing a lot of damage. Its business model, which has been chosen - it is said that the model, simply after huge discounts of bad claims, is transferred there and then sold out as soon as possible by a bad bank, at least 10% per year - has also not proved to be good and will probably lead to the dismemberment of businesses, to the destruction of jobs, with the objective of paying the country its bonds as soon as possible. But, as I have already pointed out in the introductory position, there is a public interest here that jobs are preserved, that businesses are stabilised, that the economy is relaunched. And a bad bank as a public institution can't function here as some private venture capital fund managed by some foreign fictitiously paid bankers, with state-owned assets or assets transferred to a state-owned small, but manage as their own assets and pursue some profitable, profitable motive and quorums, says as soon as possible the 10% annual sale of the portfolio they have, and they get fabulous rewards for it. It is simply a model that is not sustainable, it is a model that is damaging to the economy, it is a model that needs to be cut off. In this sense, in the United Left we welcome this novel because in a number of points it is going in the right direction. However, we think, above all, at the points of control and at the points of determining the functions of a bad bank, it seems a little too determined. Too determined because in both cases it stops halfway. While we are in control, we are going to the Ministry of Finance to give control powers, but it is not allowed to look into all relevant documentation, which means that the Ministry's control will be very difficult and weak. In the case of function-setting, these clauses are somewhat relativised, but we are not going so far as to actually place a bad bank in an institution that would primarily deal with business rehabilitation rather than selling them out. It is said that we would actually try to remedy past sins and save businesses and jobs from these poor claims. This is our primary purpose in the United Left. Therefore, we welcome the law; we welcome the amendment of the law. But we're tying our support to the amendments. Because, as I said, the law seems too short for us at many points, and I will now briefly describe the content of our amendments to this law that we have made. First of all, we add two points to Article 2, which defines control. The first is that the Ministry of Finance, which has now been given the function of supervisor of a bad bank, also gets access to confidential data because, as I have already said in my position, the last instance of the credit card is poor claims. And someone who wants to control the management of bad claims must have access to credit cards, otherwise this control is not possible and can only be done on paper. Here, of course, we agree that the Ministry of Finance must now not just spread around these maps, but rather focus its control on those matters that are actually relevant. But on the other hand, your guardian here is very strict and will not allow control over the functioning of this institution as we would like, so we suggest that the Ministry of Finance here allow a wider view of the functioning of the institution. The next item in Article 2 which we add is internal staff control. The bad bank employs 103 employees and, as such, should fall into the system regime, it is said that the Act on the participation of workers in management, which would allow for stricter supervision of executive and non-executive directors. As we have seen in the past, these directors have not shown any social responsibility not to use any harsher words for them, but they have obviously distorted the legislation so that they can still increase their already so imaginative wages, which are, say, ten times higher than the salaries of those who sit here, but we already have high wages according to the Slovenian average. They are ten times higher and are practically far away the best paid workers in the state sector. If we're going to start preventing this, we're going to need control both from the outside and from the inside. We have a system law within us and we propose an amendment to Article 2 to make it possible for employees to actually have this control. For we must not look so narrowly that if the directors are such as that the same applies to all employees. Usually employees have a much higher integrity than, unfortunately, their managers, which we have been monitoring in Slovenia for almost 20, 25 years. Then on, we'll have to set up a pay policy. The government had already introduced a security guard here, limiting to 17,000 euros the highest wage in a bad bank. Here we would suggest further tightening or reinventing the system law in a bad bank, in which case so-called Laholovnik's law, which would mean that the wages of management may exceed the average salary of the employee of the company for a maximum of 6 times. This would set an objective and systemic ceiling that would still be very high, but given the current situation it would still be better. We propose to add this fuse to Article 3. Then we propose to facilitate the resolution of non-executive and executive directors, because if we have learned anything from this last era of Swedish bankers, the lesson of the story was that the competent minister, it is said, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy or the Government as a whole, did not have enough executions to propose a solution when irregularities were detected. Once irregularities were detected by the Court of Auditors, these people received another six months to distort legislation in order not to take corrective action. And even after the audit report was issued, the government did not choose the courage to say bob beans. It was only public pressure that these directors had taken away, which should have been resolved substantially earlier, thereby saving as much damage to the bad bank as damage to the reputation of the Government and the state as a whole. As I said, with such misdirections in the eyes of the outside world, we look like a banana republic. Therefore, in the United Left, we propose that the possibility of proposing the discharge of an executive or non-executive director in a bad bank should also be granted to the National Assembly, so that we, as a national assembly, who is a legislative body, but also have a supervisory function, should we detect some serious irregularities in the functioning of this institution, we suggest that the responsible body be dissolved. And here I warn you, there are still people on the board of directors in conflict of interest. We even caught one of them lying to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission when it turned out that he was obviously acting as an intermediary for Austria Telekom in taking over T2, and now he is operating in a public institution suspected of being a public undertaking, saying that T2, he is selling it to the same provider, called Austria Telekom and sending it to bankruptcy. We still have these cases in a bad bank, they're still very poorly investigated, and they're, in fact, kind of sweaty after the two were suspended. That is why I think it would be very useful to propose that more powers be given to the National Assembly so that we can act more decisively in such cases. The main thing about this law is the function of a bad bank. It means how it will manage almost two billion of the assets that are in this institution. As I have pointed out many times, the established operating mode has been that the bad bank will sell the assets it owns as quickly as possible, and the damage will be done to the State, as the purchase prices or sales prices will be too low as the employees, because it is likely that in these sales and forced settlement processes, jobs will be lost, both to businesses and to the economy as a whole. The loss here is essentially total, and it's not just collateral. We propose as well as the government itself sees that it would make sense to change these functions in a way that puts rescue first, to put enterprise rescue first. Here we submit three amendments that go this way. The main objective is to determine the different proportion of assets to be sold by DUTB each year. This provision, which is now 10%, would soften to the extent that DUTB sells only so much property that it can service its annual obligations under this law. It is said to take care of its operating costs, to pay the bonds, and that is to say, otherwise, to deal with the recovery of companies rather than the sales. We further propose extending the preliminary right, which the Government itself proposes to grant to employees and to SDH, but only in cases where companies are defined as strategic or important. With the amendment, we are extending this clause so that it can be sold on a preliminary right also by those companies which are marked as portfolios. We can see, the case of such a company is Cimos, who has recently employed 7,000 workers. And even in such cases, it seems reasonable for SDH to be a state-owned holding company in cases where there are so many large enterprises that are regionally important with their jobs, that they get the pre-emptive right, and that, in cooperation with the bad bank, they will take care that these companies will recover as soon as possible and operate as soon as possible. The last thing that concerns us is that, through the bad owners, the former owners of companies that have just brought them into a situation like that, now through intermediaries or in some other way come at discounted prices back to their property. In fact, as I said, the discount at which the assets were transferred is 71%, the bad bank will try, at least in part, to try, after this adopted law, to rehabilitate these companies and it would be completely confused with any logic to allow any owner or manager who is responsible for this situation to now receive this company at some discounted price back into his own possession. Thus, the state will practically repay him, save his business, and he will leave with impunity. The government here is proposing some guards, but they're too loose, so we're sharpening them. We tighten them so that it is not possible to sell the claim to an entity in which the legal person who owns the company owes more than 3% of the share. So 3% for us is that upper threshold. Such a simple clause could make the spirit of what the government itself proposes in this novel more effective. Then we also have a pre-emptive allowance allowance for the housing fund, but this will be presented by colleague Franz Trček. I'll finish this place. I will only point out once again that we welcome the novel. We agree essentially with the direction in which it is misled. However, it seems to us at these points that I have just described, say, the supervision, the function of a bad bank and the pre-emptive rights are somewhat too harsh and, therefore, with our amendments, we are trying constructively to help the spirit of the novel in practice to live as much as possible. If our amendments are supported, we will also support the law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u80	Yes, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Since the practice of having Members and Members of Parliament at Article 1 is also a slightly broader view of each item of the agenda, I will also take advantage of this broader view, given that this has also been done by my two predecessors. Some of you have gone and I will go a little bit into the past, in 2012 and 2013. In particular, in order to define the past, and in particular in order to identify the circumstances in which the bad bank actually arose. The bad bank was not created because it seemed to someone that this was very good, because there were no problems in the Slovenian financial banking system, because no one wanted to solve these financial and banking problems. The bad bank was created in the circumstances of 2012 in 2013, mainly because the business banks had very, very, very bad claims. Bad Claims — What Are Bad Claims? These were the ones that were not available or paid off, and the loans were not repaid for more than six months. In fact, there is also some definition of what is actually a bad claim. And these banks could have done so since 2009, or since 2008, or since 2007, or 2006, they could have been able to manage their own bad claims and those credits that should have been eliminated or enforced for them. This is probably a somewhat heavy term, but this simply means that their value in relation to insurance is actually getting worse and that it is always smaller. These weaknesses, however, have an impact on capital. And more is the weakening of more capital needed. As a result, it is an illusion that banks could do this alone without additional capital and that it would be cheaper if they did it alone. Even if they did themselves, of course, they would keep these bad claims. And the question of how now the same people who have given credit, who have accepted risks, who have also accepted collateral for these loans with these loans with these risks with these collaterals, would actually manage it. But that's why the bankers back then had the chance to work for four or five years, and there wasn't much going on. And no state bank has set up its bad banks, if you want, its own internal legal entity, to which you would transfer so-called bad loans, bad claims, bad insurance and so on. That didn't happen. The administrations and supervisory councils of the then state banks, mostly state banks, have done nothing about this, except that there has been a lot of interference, for the first time what is a bad claim, how to define a bad claim, why a bad claim is and so on and so on. But it didn't do anything. And then the financial system would actually go down if this continued for a while. Because we are in the EU because we are in the Eurogroup, of course also the outside world, including Frankfurt, the European Central Bank has not looked at it that way, but has waited and said, do something about the bad loans you have given. Banks did nothing, they extended credits, so they were first three-month loans, then they gave them for nine months, and then for one year, and not two years, and nothing happened again. Four to five years ago, we knew that we had a financial crisis in Slovenia and the banks had done nothing about it. And of course then the situation came so far that it was a question of whether system banks or one, two, three or whatever would go bankrupt or not. Whether this will actually result in a consequence, and this is, I will say, a riot between the population, raising the stakes, an unstable financial system, and so on. And the then Bank of Slovenia and the then owners would, of course, be able to do something about it, but they didn't. The co-owner was a country, the Bank of Slovenia was a regulator and, of course, advocated, everything is wonderful, everything is stable and so on. On the other hand, the dominoes were torn apart. And of course, when you get the banks into a situation where they just can't breathe anymore, because they're undercapitalized, because they didn't have enough capital, you have to take those things that are bad there, if you want, you have to do the surgery, you have to cut the rot. And they couldn't do it on their own. That is why a third institution with major problems, with great opposition, not only part of the policy, but mainly of the lobby was set up. Why? Because they were afraid of greater transparency, who was lending loans, why they were lending loans and so on and so on. At that time, of course, a bad bank was created and when DUTB was created, of course, the question of how long this DUTB will pass on these bad claims and which banks will transfer bad claims to DUTB. The first date was June 30, 2013. On 30 June 2013, it was said by the then government, the then Ministry of Finance, that this must happen and that the first transaction would occur and that bad claims would then be transferred. This is about three, four months after the establishment of a share company. And more. At that time, it was also said that DUTB would recapitalise banks and that DUTB would prepare within three months for recapitalisation and for the transfer of bad claims. Those were the reasons. Then came 29 June 2013, I think it was Friday when a message came from the European Central Bank, from the European Commission, from the IMF: "No, this will not happen, because we do not believe your assessments of how you assessed it." There's been some mistrust, and we're gonna do it. Then came the European Central Bank, the European Commission, in support of the IMF, sent those people from different companies, and so on, who valued the properties that were valued by companies, which were then transferred to a bad bank at the end of 2013 with that haircut of 70% and so on, in short, to reduce this value. By the way, Banka Slovenije received an account for two valuations of €22 million, so that there will be no mistake. Between €21 million and €22 million, after, of course, now wondering how and why, that was public information. Of course, at the time, the State of Slovenia, as owner of banks, was somehow forced to do something because it gave money to recapitalise banks without you taking away the rotten thing, simply means nothing, even in the balance sheet it does not remember anything because the bank will constantly need additional money from the owners or from the state. So much for why the bank was built and why it all came together. One more thing. The Bad Bank is a shareholder company and is not a bank and does not operate with the Banking Act. It has nothing to do with the fact that the economy will receive more loans and that the credit crunch will stop due to a bad bank. It's an illusion. It's a mistake. This has nothing to do with banking if you want. Bad claims, insurance and so on were transferred there, and there are no bank functions. The DUTB shall not give any credit, accept no deposits and have no connection with the bank or banking. It's just a name. The name she just gave, the media probably, most media. That's why the Bad Bank was created. Because of problems in state banks and because nothing happened there, otherwise the bankers themselves could do anything and save their bad claims and they didn't want them. At that time, there was also such a law that we are correcting today. I don't mind that we're fixing the law, in fact, I think it's always been said that I should have corrected myself earlier, the question is only in which direction and what role the DUTB will play in the future – certainly not the same as it was for a certain purpose at the time; it was for a certain purpose. If we are saying today that the objective of DUTB will also be to restructure the economy, of course this is commendable, but here we need to know that more people or more legal entities today deal with one and the same – SDH, then we have some part that also deals with restructuring, then we have Kad and so on. And one of the objectives of setting up SDH was to centralise the management of state property. In other words, this means that when the owner of the state property is a State represented by the Government, through the Assembly, order SDH to adopt or support such a decision and such a decision at the Assembly of a State-owned enterprise, because it has ownership to avoid conflict with another State-owned company, for example, Kad, who has ownership there, but will support Kad another decision at the Assembly of that company, such as SDH. And if we have five such government administrators, then there is confusion in the congregation, and of course that was the case. And it will also happen in the future, because now we will have a huge number of state-owned property managers again, SDH, Kad, DUTB, then we have a particular part that deals with this, but probably someone else, and before every assembly of the state-owned enterprise, we will need coordination, which is likely to be carried out by the Minister of Economy or at the Ministry of Economy, or, if it is a financial institution, it will be the Ministry of Finance, and again a major confusion. And we didn't do much. In the last few years we have not done much or almost nothing about centralisation of governance, we are going back the same way. Now that we have given DUTB this role, this is actually going to happen. I don't think that's gonna make it any better. About the price to be sold. In the present law, there is a provision referring to the fact that the Bank Claims Management Company has a limited duration and would soon cease to do so and that it must sell 10% of the assets. This was precisely the purpose of getting real owners as quickly as possible. That was the purpose back then. And the aim was to make it as transparent as possible without affecting any networks that affected different solutions and so on. Here you can talk about salaries and so on, but look, abroad you know why the wages of managers are high – just so they don't come under the influence of any networks, that's one of the reasons. This is also one of the reasons, and they are, of course, responsible to their owner. In the National Assembly, the word "sale" was used several times, the word "sale" of state property and so on. Look, who's the one who's gonna set the right price that's not gonna be the sale price? The National Assembly? Do we know here what the right price is for a company? The government? Is she the smartest person in the world about the price that's right? A plan, a plan? I don't know, 80 years ago we had planned prices, 70 years ago, 60, 40. Who's going to set the right price now? In the market economy, it is determined by the market, supply and demand, but of course all those that affect these real prices must be excluded and therefore the business must be transparent. I don't know who it is who's going to set the prices that aren't going to be on sale. I'm sorry, I don't feel competent to tell you what the price is for any company in this country right now. And it's not a sale. But of course, it is a word that is used very often, it is spoken, and it is accepted how everything is sold to someone and so on. Tell me what the price is, then, the real price, if you're looking for the owners. Of course, I agree that each owner, the new owner, must prove with his programme to ensure the functioning of society, to ensure its competitiveness, to ensure the employment of so many and so many people and so on. If, of course, the DUTB is being referred to, of course, it is necessary to take into account certain market legalitys that are currently on the market. It is true, however, that we have a relatively closed market for this in Slovenia. We have of course, if you want, many lobbying and networks that want to influence and who want to get back to the owners who already owned this company, who have left this credit at a bad bank, but have become owners again. Among the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is one amendment to prevent this. This is an amendment to Article 8. I think there has also been a lot of talk on this subject on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. In this amendment, we propose that the DUTB should not transfer the claims which the holder has become in implementing measures to strengthen the stability of banks to any legal person in which the person has capital, irrespective of the amount of which the claim has been transferred to the DUTB or is considered as debtor under the Company Act. This is said to be the case, we estimate that even with 49% of equity ownership, such a person may be able to obtain claims transferred to the DUTB and thus become the owner of the company which was transferred to the DUTB as a bad claim. I propose that you support this amendment, as of course all others, in particular by increasing transparency in this way and by increasing transparency in the functioning of the Bank Claims Management Company. I am, of course, to certain solutions proposed by the Government in this law, skeptical regardless of the fact that I want it to deal with bad claims in Slovenia as soon as possible so that these bad claims will no longer be a bad claim, but will become good claims. I agree with that, but without a good owner, without a responsible owner, no law will help us. No law that we are enacting here will help us if we do not find a good owner. I'm not gonna say the right one. I'm gonna say the right one. I'm gonna say the right one. Not only to profit, but here it is necessary to realize that someone becomes the owner of the company in order to create profit, but also to provide jobs in addition to profit. This, however, will only be possible if, for the first time, he has a vision for this company, secondly if he is competitive, and here the country can do much, especially this government, to improve competitive conditions, and this will ensure economic growth and greater employment. I am also afraid that there will also be conflict situations as to who will manage the state property, whether DUTB or SDH or some other, Kad, Court, Court, I apologize, Kad, other owners who are state or parastatal. In short, there will be, unfortunately, a lot of conflicts, no matter what kind of society we have or do not have, and no matter whether we immediately terminate the Banking Company and transfer it all to SDH. Now they will play the same role, more or less. In a way, ultimately, the matter will be even more transparent, management even more centralised. The government has decided to change this law, and it could also write a new one, given that it is a new concept, it can write a new law. I think that this would be even more formal and even more correct, as the Law-Legal Service also points out. I think it's also recognized by this law, or at least it knows by this law, whatever. And of course, we will see how it will also be effective in this regard. Unfortunately, this story with this change of law in Slovenia will take too long, too long, and there will be no progress, we will deal with ourselves, probably, and in the National Assembly and in the Supervisory Boards and Management Boards, but there will be no significant change. Unfortunately, given the experience I have, those things that don't want to be solved, they want to stall or create a commission, and then do that for a long time, so, these are old methods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The second paragraph of Article The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected choir! Just as the colleague started the full debate, I, as the leader of the parliamentary group, will announce a few more words about our last amendment, which, in contrast to Article 5, is related to some of the fact that since the so-called Jazbinska Act the privatisations of the housing fund have been almost a quarter of a century ago, that generations, mine and younger, you will not believe, many of the unresolved housing issues, and that several apartments have been transferred to DUTB, plus the fact that we currently need to assess the profession accompanying it, somewhere between 6 and 8 thousand dwellings. That is why in this amendment we introduce a preliminary right to these apartments, not only to the Housing Funds, but also to the municipalities according to the territorial key of course where these apartments are located. At the same time tomorrow we will talk about a national housing programme, which somehow detects this problem in a very awkward language. I think that we also need to bring together some debates and, of course, this is where our amendment goes. Because I have some time and I would touch the whole thing that the speakers were doing in front of me. Mr Šircelj, of course, described this very plastically, and he was also involved in writing this law on DUTB, about a bank that is not actually a bank, because it is not doing its job properly, but the name of the bad bank has been seized. There was also a non-executive director, if I recall correctly. He said, of course, cut off the rot and so on. As it turns out, the DUTB doesn't do that. I remember, I've said this many times before, we had a meeting at the Chamber of Commerce in Maribor, and then the fresh Minister for Economic Development and Technological Affairs came straight from DUB to Maribor, he blew like a very angry lynx, and then he said there was a second-class team there that the Slovaks wouldn't take the financial work out of control, but there was no idea of restructuring. In fact, we are not actually engaged or this institution is overly engaged in restructuring. And most of our banks don't deal with that either. You know, after all, I'm good at coming from Maribor. I know a little story there. I've told you many times, sometimes you have to have an employee at the bank who's also a machine engineer who understands some area of restructuring he's supposed to be dealing with. None pointed out, Luka partially, discounts, so-called haircuts in these transfers with us who were on average 71%, which insanely deviates from some foreign practice. Look, I can tell you, they told me in confidence how this happened in a place where I was elected as an MP, they came with a table at a bank where they wrote what these discounts were supposed to be, some people at the bank actually resisted it, they said, wait, but we can't discount this company, it really has some old claims, it currently works well, you have to go into some restructuring, they have twice repeated this plea, the answer was literally: It will be, if you don't have anything right here, but calm down. That's how this dutb worked. If I'm going to get something on my liver in this House, and I hope I'll never be in this role, it's a double morality. DUTB wrote so slightly non-binding by the then authorities, the other you continued to do so, because it somehow corresponds to some of the lobbyists, the president of the National Assembly cited them as 5 in the division of this spoil. I agree with Mr Širclje that companies need good owners, but good owners or co-owners are responsible and, after all, employees who have, after all, created these companies until they are imported may, in their own words. They also have some hidden knowledge, of course they also need some certain knowledge that they do not have, some coalition treaties have talked about economic democracy, co-management and so on, but in practice this has not happened. Yesterday, I accidentally caught part of an interview with a newly deployed SDH team, and if you connect it to DUTB, I have to say that somehow there is no new policy. We're trying to take this story seriously here with our amendments and take it further for the benefit of citizens and citizens to actually dutb becomes a dutb but not some bad and replayed [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Word is, there's a mag in the replica. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. A replica or an explanation. My colleague Dr. Ducky misunderstood me, especially when he was saying that I was the first one to say that it was necessary to cut off the rotten creation. Not with DUTB, with banks, I was talking about banks, business banks, government banks, that for four years no one wanted bad claims or transferred to an internal bad bank to set up another company to actually put it out of the bank's balance sheet. I wasn't talking about DUTB because DUTB doesn't have bad claims now and so on. Here it must be understood that there are some business banks, but something is the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the Shareholder Company. I was talking about business banks at a time when they didn't want to deal actively with bad claims. This is, of course, the first misunderstanding and, of course, all further implementations by Dr. Duck do not, in my opinion, have a red or all of this. Now he also said, he didn't expose the discounts and so on. I exposed them, but these discounts or these haircuts were due to the valuation of these claims by an international institution. And I said why, because they were first valued by our business banks, they were also valued in the first few months of the DUTB, but then the foreigners simply said, "The European Central Bank, we don't believe you, and the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance said, we don't believe you. That's why we're gonna do it ourselves. That's why they've been here since 1. 7. to 31. 12. 2013 was evaluated as they valued. I want to tell you that at the time it was the non-creditability of Slovenian policy regarding the value of poor claims and the non-creditability of the Bank of Slovenia, because the European Central Bank, the European Commission, did not believe us in the International Monetary Fund. That's why they came here. But they also did so in other countries, not only in us, but also in other countries. But they didn't believe us, they didn't believe us, they didn't trust the administrations of the NLB, they didn't trust us. And that's why it happened. Just because it changes, and then ten times something happens again, and then it becomes the truth with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u86	Madam President, thank you for the floor. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. These changes and additions relate in particular to the operation of the So-called Bad Bank Claims Management Company. As well as the law, the proposal addressed by the parent committee, that is, the Committee on Monetary Policy in Finance, we could come to one conclusion, at least I have one opinion here and I would take the words of my fellow Member Veber that this law will be the place of taxpayer money. This change in the law in which the government goes will indeed result in the theft of taxpayer money. Because, first of all, you turned over the basic mission she had, I would say, I could already, in the past, speak of a bad bank, because the purpose of a bad bank was primarily to sell the bad claims that were transferred to it, and to find an active owner for that bank, and to find the irregularities that led to these claims that were transferred to a bad bank. This means that the sale of claims and one of the key tasks of the DUTB was to determine whether there were any suspicions of crime. The suspicion of crimes, as we know, is at least in the light of the number of claims that have been transferred, I would say, at least for me personally, to establish a minimum or almost nothing, to sell the claims of active owners, I think it was not very much, but those that were, in the media, raised a number of questions, particularly whether these procedures were made in accordance with all the rules and whether they were done in accordance with good business practices both at home and abroad. We have witnessed that they have proposed bankruptcys for some of the good companies, and the Constitutional Court has had to intervene. The government of Mira Cerar has decided to replace part of the people on the boards of administration, you have set up a part of your people, and now, I would say, even the points on the i that you needed to be able to make definitive use of this law, which was prepared for good in order to make the resolution of the banking system in Slovenia make at least part of the taxpayer's money, that is more than EUR 5 billion, try to return to the budget. Where are those key issues, why I have expressed myself for stealing the taxpayer's property, namely the basic mission of claims, you are now changing sales so that the bad bank will be given new power, namely restructuring companies. The restructuring of companies means that Slovenia will now receive two state-owned assets managers and, on the one hand, the Slovenian State Holding Company. One of the key issues I have also asked the Secretary of State on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was where the DUTB will receive funds or money to be able to restructure businesses. Because we know that restructuring companies means organisational, business or financial. And from these issues, it has probably been seen that it will be primarily a financial restructuring of companies. The fact is, the DUTB does not have its resources and in the draft budget for 2016, but 2017 we came up with that disclosure – again at the expense of taxpayers. EUR 200 million is an item in the budget to be used to restructure businesses. 200 million euros! But look, the experience, how and when the state decided to restructure certain companies, is catastrophic or very bad. And that the biggest benefit for the restructuring of companies where the country had their fingers in between was usually consulting companies, law firms or individuals. And a number of companies that the state decided to restructure ended up in a historical dump because they went bankrupt, the workers lost a lot of money and we lost the taxpayer's money. In particular, it is necessary to provide an explanation by the Secretary of State why you decided on this concept, why you did not decide that the restructuring would be carried out by the Slovenian State Holding Company and that the DUTB would continue to carry out its basic mission, which is why it was also established, that is to say, the sale of claims and the search for active owners. Not only on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, but also on a large scale from the professional public, it does not agree with this and draws attention to the history of the restructuring of Slovenian companies. And now you've put it in the budget to anticipate 200 million euros. I'm curious, on what grounds did you come up with this number, the esteemed Secretary of State? And, Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you: Which companies will receive these funds, which companies will go into the restructuring cycle, and why will an additional 200 million taxpayers' money be spent? What guarantee is there that these companies will be successfully restructured? I'm sure there's a lot of risk here. I now believe that if you have planned in the budget a number of 200 million, you should have obtained it on the basis of certain criteria or methodologies, especially probably with the names of companies. Finally, what is still disturbing in this proposal for amendments to the law, that the exception to the DUTB will apply to the DUTB and that certain items of the Financial Restructuring Act or insolvency procedures for DUTB will not apply. Why? Why is this going to be one exception to the system law? You're doing everything except what you promised before the elections, you're doing a lot of recruiting for no reason, and of course you're setting up your people. And we have Mira Cerar before the elections and we have Mir Cerar after the elections. Of course, you are the main support in this regard, but you are Members and Members of this coalition, because with your support this law amending the Law on the Functioning of the DutB of the Place of Taxation, for the sake of restructuring and for another matter. Article 8 of the amendment of this Act, or Article 13 of this Act, prohibits the sale of claims to persons associated with the debtor. You will make this law a legal basis so that those responsible for making bad claims will be able to make a very cheap return to their shares by enforcing this law. And this is the main goal, tax money and allow those who have created these claims to now come at favourable prices to them. I think that colleague Weber has already pointed out, but I also think that such discounts, which were made in transferring these claims, are likely to deviate from global practices. And we talked here about discounts that were above 70%. This means that someone who created a claim above 100 million is likely to be able to get that share back for some 20 million today. And you are here making a legal basis for this to happen by amending this law. And you are working a parallel system with the Slovenian state holding company. And the key purpose of the Slovenian State Holding was to manage Slovenian state-owned companies from one city. And now it won't be like this. Now we have SDH, we have Kad, we have DUTB. However, I do not rule out that you will invent another institution in the near future if the intentions you have with this change of law do not come true. Look, that's a big disappointment. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, you will turn on the green light for this. We will oppose this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. You will allow certain jobs and lumbaries to be carried out further and that those who have brought these companies into difficulty will now be able to buy these companies back after large discounts. What more will we say about this amendment, which was also discussed in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Article 8, as also pointed out by colleague Janko Weber. Indeed, the Secretary of State, I demand, I expect clarifications from you. First of all, why did you decide that the basic mission of a bad bank, that is to say, selling claims and searching for owners, will now be arranged so that the bad bank will deal with restructuring companies, in particular companies that will receive the 200 million tax money allocated to the budgets for 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 2? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you, Chairman. The debate on this must first and foremost be brought into some context. Who is currently the chief supervisor, the first supervisor of a bad bank? Marko Simonetti from the New Ljubljana Bank. Who is at the head of the Slovenian state holding company? Another Marko, Marko Jazbec from Nova Ljubljanska Bank, the head of the credit committee at the time when the bank created a 2 billion-euro weakening. Who defends the law in the National Assembly? Dragonja method, head of the New Ljubljana Bank branch in Moscow from 2008 to 2013. At a time when, as we know, there have been quite a lot of bad loans under the New Ljubljana Bank. And today's bill goes to state property in the context of the government's Mir Cerar campaign. Kolga Pogačnik said that 200 million Euros are additional costs for "domestic restructuring", and in fact for the sale of state property or new property. But that's just another 200 million over 2015. And if we're accurate, it's not 200 million, but it's 203 million 622 thousand. Look, if you flip a number like that in the budget, it's clear that if it's even up to a thousand euros, there's a pattern in the back, something we Members don't know. And if we now look at the total amount for the operation of the bad bank following this new model, so in 2015 this amount is about 400 million, and in 2017 the poor 300 million, together almost 700 million euros. With today's law, therefore, Mr Dragonja urged taxpayers to save their friendly companies, so that, you know, the NLB will be able to save NLB's companies that have been imported for irresponsible management and have gone to DUTB or have by chance remained good because of market conditions and so on and SDH. We'll talk about SDH tomorrow, we're talking about DUTB today. Look, the government is deceiving this material. In his work, the Goals, principles and chapters of the solution, as I said in the introduction, say that the third of the four key objectives is to facilitate the identification of irregularities leading to loans and investments transferred to bad loans. Easing the recognition of irregularities. I've already read to you what the old marriage says and what the new marriage says. In the old law, there is a clear commitment, namely, in the law that is being amended, there is a clear commitment to establishing responsibility. In the new law, however, it is only to facilitate identification, nor to indicate the suspicions of crime, nor to facilitate investigation, to facilitate identification. The new DUTB administration will have a relatively easy job. Those credits for their friends will be disposed of cheaply, and since they will no longer have them, they will not need to be recognized or recognized and this identification will be substantially facilitated. And if you want to actually address what you mentioned in the introduction with your goals, facilitate the recognition of irregularities, you should just sit down with the DUTB. The DUTB has made it clear to you that documents transferred to a bad bank do not effectively identify irregularities and responsibilities, especially on the part of those who have given credit, i.e. those bad bankers, but only possibly on the part of those who have taken credit. Therefore, the number of allegations of criminal offences is too sharp because the government did not provide them with the relevant documentation because they did not get the entire credit map because all the most important documents are missing in these credit maps, from the records of the credit committees to the requests, to additional explanations. And if the government were to make a sincere effort to facilitate the recognition of irregularities, it would only change the sample of transfers to a bad bank, i.e. the contents of those credit maps that banks were or were obliged to transfer to the DUTB. Not that the DUTB is working for the new Slovenian state holding company. So the taxpayers will have to pay €700 million out of their pocket for this tour of the government of Mir Cerar or NLB. Today, Mr Dragonja accounts for €700 million for the next two years, taxpayers will have to pay so much that the structure that currently takes over all the levers of power in the economy, which do not care about the migration problem, which they do not care about the difficulties of the police, who do not care about the social difficulties, will be about the pension problems, but they care only about 18 billion state assets, 5 on the DUTB at gross value and 13 on SDH. And this is the task that Mr Dragonja has with the proposal of this novel. And look at what, for example, the government's representatives wrote in this paper, when they want to facilitate the recognition of irregularities, they even wrote: As such, DUTB can't, because it doesn't even have investigative powers or knowledge – see, this is an extraordinary non-truster of DUTB, after 2 years Mr. Dragonja says, DUTB does not have adequate knowledge or even has no responsibility, because there is therefore no prescribed procedure and must therefore not identify who is responsible for the so-called bad credits. Look, the government clearly writes in this paper without shame that the DUB can't even determine who's responsible. He is pleased to write, not to find out who is responsible, but to make it easier to identify irregularities that have led to credit and poor investment in the introduction. Look, it's this double morality. It's that double morality. In the introduction, you write something up, high-flying words, and then only in the budget do we find that it will cost us 700 million euros, and then you say, see, let the DUTB not even dare to investigate bad loans, others will do that. Will that be who? Who, Mr. Jazbec, Mr. Simonetti, will do this, Mr. Dragonja? Are you going to be a former employee of the New Ljubljana Bank, while a billion and a half credits were transferred to this bad bank in Nova Ljubljanska Bank? See, in this regard, it is also easier to understand why Desus and SMC voted against professional assistance yesterday by the parliamentary investigative committee. Because 40,000 documents on irregularities and credit maps are already in Parliament's files. And if the DUTB, which was set up to examine the reasons for the establishment of the bank hole, is not to determine or decide, as of today, who is responsible for the so-called bad loans. I quote what the material says, those who are looking at the material now and you obviously have not read it if Dragonja says about the DUBB, what only this government and Miro Cerar thinks about the parliamentary commission of inquiry. Yeah, how could the parliamentary commission of inquiry dare to find that out? Therefore, this bill is in fact, in fact and shamelessly published the economic agenda of this government, which says, lobbies that you have created bad loans, we are opening the way for you, the free way for you to continue doing this, our Members, that is to say, the Members of the coalition will vote for you. Human resources appointments have begun, and today this continues with a normative basis. And I'm sorry, look, this marriage proposal is in the light of the fact that we taxpayers have paid EUR 5 billion for this bank hole, this is an unworthy government proposal. And in some normal country, there would be no such proposal today. But when we are headed by Dr. Mir Cerar Jr., obviously nothing should surprise us anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate on this general work was rich, interesting. Various views of the opinion were presented. I will try to answer or provide some additional explanations only on some of the key claims or interpretations of the objectives or purposes, although they have already been presented in the opening presentation, and once again quite extensively in the home working body. As far as DUTB is concerned, first of all it is necessary to say that DUTB has the title of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims in its title, it is said that it is also established in my name to carry out claims. Claims are a specific part of assets or one of the forms of assets that are today probably the dominant form in the modern market economy and financial environment and are several times larger than other forms of assets, such as equity shares and so on. Claims are managed according to other principles than equity management, and in DUTB we have the situation that 90% of the assets managed by DUTB are claims. I mean, when you were preparing the law, you probably had a purpose and perception to transfer primarily bad loans in the form of claims or credit cards. My first question was when I started dealing with this, but why there are also capital shares at the DUTB, and how did the capital shares come about, which were the legal basis. This was allowed under the provisions of the law to be defined in a sub-legislative act, the sub-law was a regulation setting out a number of risk lines that could be transferred. At the proposal of the Bank of Slovenia, capital shares held by banks were also added to this range of risk items. These capital shares for those who know the banking principles of operations require or spend more capital, substantially more capital than they spend on credit exposures capital, and thus we can explain that in fact the transfer of capital shares to a bad bank was in the interest of banks and also of a bank regulator, because in fact the capital adequacy of banks has increased effectively because otherwise the capital adequacy of banks would be further reduced. Now the issues related to the new applications and to the proposal introduced by the amendment of the law that, in fact, once the measures to stabilise the banking system have been implemented for the rehabilitation of the banks, it is logical that we have already clarified several times that it is not envisaged that, on the basis of this law, the banking system will have to be fully stable or recapitalised by banks with tax money, that the focus has now moved towards ensuring more efficient management of the assets that the DUTB has entrusted to it and on the basis of which it has to reduce public debt resulting from the transfer of bad debts to a bad bank. This is said to be the role of the DUTB is changing, but not because some additional power in terms of ownership levers is concentrated in the DUTB, but mainly in order to achieve better economic objectives for the management of this property. This is said to mean that companies or claims can also reshape or create conditions for their sale to create greater value. The restructuring, which will be actively managed by the DUTB and which has also been partially so far, can only be justified if the economic value of the claims increases. In any event, the DUTB and in any decision taken by the DUTB authorities must always demonstrate what the value of the bankruptcy scenario is, what is the scenario of the immediate sale or of the rapid sale, and what potential value can be derived from more active management, when the value increase is first ensured and a better result is ensured. From this point of view, the claim that new SDH is being created or that SDH functions are being assumed, that in some way the management of state property is decentralised, I think they are excessive and do not endure a serious test. We have said on the parent's working body, even if in any case there is a conversion of claims into capital shares, all intended sales are by definition and the DURB will play its role and its mission in a way that will sell all the assets it has, no matter what form it is. Today, however, the reality is that there are also certain fiscal constraints affecting the country's deficit, particularly according to the methodology of the European Statistical Office, that conversions into capital shares will be an exception earlier, as they may potentially increase the country's deficit, and will need to be avoided for objective reasons on the conditions of fiscal consolidation. This implies, what was said in one of the introductory discussions, that the DUTB must obtain good owners, responsible owners, but the key criterion is nevertheless the value that these positions will be given to ensure that the bonds are paid and thus the public debt guaranteed by the State. The claim that conditions are being created to create additional consumption of taxpayer money so that these processes can be implemented is not in place. All the funds the DUTB has to carry out its tasks are either derived from its core capital or from its issued bonds. While the novelty allows it to be in charge of carrying out activities under certain criteria, it is not envisaged that the additional public funding is allocated to carry out the activities of the DUTB or to actively support these restructuring programmes. DUTB has already followed the basic criterion so far that at least 10% of the assets should be sold per year. In these days, it will also pay the first part of the bonds issued and reduce public debt by €300 million by the end of the year. In fact, it has demonstrated that it fulfils these tasks and also further aims to sell at least 10% of the value of the portfolio. We did not mention in the law any more in the objectives adopted by the Government as key objectives and identified them as indicators of the performance of the DUB, not only in the relative proportion, but also in absolute numbers, the amounts to be sold by the DUTB. These amounts are also visible in STVARC sales, and these amounts are also reflected in the strategy we have presented. For 2015, the minimum inflow to be generated is 162 million in sales and interest income, or the dividends it receives. In 2016, €323 million and €500 million in 2017. That is to say, given the 300 that I have already mentioned, because they will pay, we have already set very high targets with this dynamic that we have set as the objective of the DUTB operation, by which the bad bank must actively manage this asset and actively fund it, and thus actively acquire new owners who will be able to perform the economic function successfully and in the ways that we anticipate here. I would say so much more to this general debate. From the last discussion that followed, what are all the connections to the budget and what you saw in the budget? The budget does not provide for any item specifically for restructuring, the budget provides for items for recapitalisation, for the capital investments of the country, which will mainly, as is now envisaged, be designed to invest in infrastructure companies and will be designed for construction or to set up conditions for larger state projects to be launched. From the amount in the budgets at this position in 2016 and 2017, the indicative amount of EUR 100 million is the capital contribution to the project company, which will be the holder of the second track of the Divač-Luka Koper railway connection. The following are additional capital contributions to Luka Koper, the Slovenian Railways, which should allow for the success of this largest infrastructure project, which Slovenia has before it. Investments in SID security reserves are foreseen and contributions to the European Fund for Strategic Investments are foreseen, some inputs in the area of consolidation of capital shares following recommendations and tasks of the Court of Auditors. Therefore, there are no specific restructuring positions specifically in such a way that this would be combined with the activities of the DUTB from public resources in the budgets adopted for 2016 and 2017. However, as regards specifically Article 2 of the law and the proposed amendments of the United Left, I can point out once again that this government does not support both amendments or amendments at both points. As far as co-management is concerned, here we base primarily on the fact that the DUTB is an institution which, by its way of action, actually has to operate in accordance with banking principles and because banks and banking institutes have an exception here from the general system-wide Co-administration Act, we estimate that there is no need for a different regime to apply here than the regime in the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u92	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Secretary of State, a colleague from your Ministry of Finance who attended the debate at the time of the adoption of the budget for 2016 and 2017, said that 200 million were planned for the restructuring of companies under the heading of the Ministry of Economy. And look at the item in the 2016 budget under item 1406 – Support for the restructuring of financial and non-financial companies, and then you have a few items down. Please agree now at the Ministry of Finance whether these millions will be earmarked for the DUTB restructuring or not. The budget, however, has been adopted. You took him in yesterday. I don't know, I don't think you know what the left does, what the right hand does. On the other hand, you mentioned that one of the tasks of the DUTB will remain debt reduction. And look, Mr Secretary of State, what an assessment of the budget you have received from Brussels, which has been given by the European Commission. In addition to all these comments made by the Commission on this budget, one of them is that the Commission also points out that DUTB's debt and its slower repurchase of investments will also have a greater impact on public finances than Slovenia foresees in the 2016 budget plan. And with this change of law, this debt will increase further.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u94	See, this presentation, or the words of the Secretary of State of Dragonje, was very interesting. With his answers, he was also deceiving. If you've listened carefully, everything we've warned you has been said, it's too much, it's not true. And that is his explanation for all the allegations that have been made. It's too much, it doesn't hold. No concrete evidence or explanation has given us that would convince us that the purposes represented by the Ministry with this novel are indeed the ones they record in the objectives. And it can't go according to the texts it gives. This was also an additional phase of deceiving those who listen and underestimating the mental capacity of Members. Look, Mrs. Vraničarova explained here on Monday why these funds are increasing on Monday. If you don't know how to harmonise yourself at the Ministry or you think that we don't listen to what your representatives are saying, that's your problem, but the problem is that you come before Members with these bad laws and expect the coalition to vote for Slovenia's additional commitment to make the clicks live as they have lived until now. 350 euros per taxpayer will cost this adventure with the amendment of the ZUKSB, at least. See what Mrs Vraničarova said, the second thing about the increase in state assets is the funds reserved to enable the country to participate actively in the restructuring process and thus to ensure that the ZUKSB so continues. Look, you can't be that easy! We're monitoring what we're saying! Come before the Members prepared, especially if you come with such scandalous laws as you are coming, because perhaps then the coalition will in any case, because it only confirms what the Government, that is, another branch of the government, will order them to vote, they will confirm. But at least people need to know what this government is doing with such legal proposals. And don't expect to be saying, "That's too much. That's not true. This is not the case," Slovenian public convinced of the good intentions of this novel. You will not, because the background is clear and the branches of every article of this law. Even enkra, we did not accept the budget a year ago, we voted on it yesterday, we discussed it on Monday, we remember well what was said in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the President! I propose a procedural proposal to prepare representatives of the Government and representatives of ministries for the future meeting of the National Assembly for opposition Members. It seems that what you are preparing to interpret the proposed laws, coalition Members and Members is not enough. I propose that representatives of the Government and ministries be prepared for opposition Members and Members for future meetings of the National Assembly and for their working bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The government, which comes with its proposals, is ready for the entire National Assembly, that is, all the members of the National Assembly, and of course there is no difference here. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. To make it clear to the people, perhaps some other people in this hall, I will allow myself to be a little bit more at work. There have been many things said, which in some ways give a very unusual light, even on the very contents of the law, and I will only briefly take it. The discussion was also about discounts, currents, futures, but it is also right to look at the discount when these claims were transferred. There are three examples that I believe should be made known to all here and to those who are not. Spain, Ireland, Slovenia. The average discount in Spain for the transfer of claims was 54%. Average Irish transfer of 57%, 71% in Slovenia. I can humbly ask myself here, on behalf of my Group of Members, how this has been so generous. Then where were they all? But there's something interesting about that. Ireland has changed the management and sale system of claims, and has leased three world knowledge managers. Soon a finding, suspicions and irregularities in the sale of property of 1.7 billion. They're conducting judicial investigations. Why am I bringing this up? It is precisely because of the talk of omnipotence and trust on the part of this national assembly and on the part of the native working bodies. Here I think I can stop at this point, as if everything was saved, which is foreign, but nothing at home is valid. What's right is to touch people clearly and understandingly enough. Many debaters from the opposition were and are mixing the powers of the DUTB, the powers of SDH, the Government, the President of the Government and anything. It is right to clarify what I think all the debaters should be very well aware of. The DUTB and SDH competences shall not be duplicated. At the very least, I expect that there will be no more debate, as the DURB manages its assets. What a respected colleague of Shircelj has mentioned, a company of shares, then we would not discuss what this authority is. The fact is that DUTB manages mainly claims, namely those claims to companies in financial difficulties. This means what has been transmitted and has been extensively explained by the colleague just mentioned. However, the fact is that SDH has State shares in active companies. This means that SDH manages the right to corporate governance. And if I finish. DutB has bond rights, so to speak, is a creditor of claims. Why am I bringing this up? Because what we do not want to point out in these political debates, or whether we do not realize it, is that the claims of creditors are always the first to pay, it is said, before the claims of the shareholders. This is a significant difference in the management processes of SDH or DUTB. And what I mentioned in the introduction is that I believe that this is a new model for the management of DUTB-related claims just because, in addition to the existing, ongoing procedures for the sale of claims, it is going into the restructuring process, mainly because of the fact that the revenues from these transferred claims are being maximised. And if only in this part, as I have already mentioned the difference between SDH and DUTB. The fact is that restructuring at least in SDH or DUTB is generally not comparable, as it has to be based on a baseline, that the DUTB can, as mentioned as a creditor of its claims, significantly more recover, of course, under the assumption that it is undergoing restructuring processes and that restructuring is also successful. Initially, it has been mentioned, on my part, that in a number of parts of these companies, where DUTB has a claim, some healthy business processes, not to mention this other part, are also related to the maintenance of jobs. But here I want to stress something, we can't talk about all these claims being healthy for restructuring. This is the duty of those who lead and those whom we have trusted. But in this place, I think we're talking about the law now, not the human resources policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. [[advertising from the hall]] A replica? Mag. Ange Logar, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Verbič spoke about the injustices that took place in Slovenia compared to Spain and Ireland, there was a discount of 55% and there were 71%. You must have listened to the Minister for Finance when he talked about it. Spain, Ireland, mortgage insurance, Slovenia does not, but Slovenia does. That's why there's a difference in the discount. The Minister himself told you that sometimes you should listen to him; because he is rarely here, but when he is, what kind of information he tells. And most interestingly, it is those who have made such loans that today occupy the highest functions in these institutions that handle or manage bad loans. Now, just as far as we're concerned, we can't even SDH and DUTB. Yes, until the moment you vote for this law. The moment you confirm this law, however, we must be even, as the proposer himself writes that after the new SDH, DUTB will be the manager of his property. As the manager of his assets, Mr Dragonja wrote this to you in black and white. Read the material we are discussing here! The sale of this property will no longer be necessary. From now on, DUTB will be able to generate inflows through investment. And these tides just have to satisfy that 10% and the hook is made. So all those goals presented by Dragonja, as if there were still an obligation to sell off this property, fell into the water. First, we give taxpayers money to enter capital investments, to support businesses, and then from these titles we use dividend policy, and I don't know what they're getting revenue from management. And the circle is complete. The Parade has received another good law for its operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Logar, I very much ask that you behave to the Secretary of State. [[advertising in the hall]] Yes, but "Mr. Dragonja Method" or at least "Mr. Dragonja." Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u102	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I have a replica to discuss with my colleague Verbich. If that were true to what you said, then I suppose you will not support this amendment of the law. This is the only conclusion, for this is your thinking and your debate has gone in this direction that it is not necessary. Behold, what you have said is true today, when this law is enforced, and this will no longer apply. Among other things, you said DUTB was a share company. Indeed, it is a share company, but you forgot to mention that it is 100 % owned by the State and that there can be no change unless you go into this change later. You said what's the difference between SDH dealing with active companies. I'll give you a heads-up. Look at the equity stake that DUTB has, there are at least 33 active companies here, and you've turned this DUTB upside down. With regard to the valuations of the claims that have been transferred, I expect the Commission of Inquiry to take this work seriously. For too many perceptions and too many doubts have already appeared in public, whether these claims have been assessed in a fair manner. And about signing contracts with Oliver Wyman and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Given that we are at Article 2 and the amendment to this 2. Article, I will first begin around the content of this Article, namely the position of the DUTB and the supervision of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. It is true that the text of the law, which is to be amended by the adoption of this law, contained a very clear directive that the Banks Management Company also reveals irregularities in the creation of bad claims and that the new text speaks of the fact that it facilitates the identification of irregularities leading to credit and investment. It is also true that in the report, or I would say, in the material prepared by the applicant, it is clear that none of these procedures were carried out within the DUTB during the period of operation. However, it is likely that one scepticism or question must also be established here whether there was really nothing that both executive and non-executive directors should warn or initiate a procedure. I also do not expect the DUB to conduct the whole process, because it is not actually established for this, but the fact that a particular procedure is actually being initiated is probably possible. By the way, I understand that this facilitation of identifying irregularities still means that all those who have access to the folders will also have the opportunity to indict someone they think went through their powers when a bad claim was made. If that is not the case, then it actually means that we are losing an important part of the content now in force. Although I am extremely fond of the fact that, when we talk about the situation and control and so forth, in poor claims, we are nevertheless serious about agreeing and deciding to adopt a special law that will speak precisely about investigating all the irregularities arising from the bank hole. This is a process that would actually answer the many questions that we are opening here today, and it is also right to open them because we have not yet reached these decisions in Slovenia. I am also afraid that we will not come to this decision either, because it is only the fact that even 150 000 euros, as we have proposed to be monitored by the Commission established in the National Assembly, of course this amendment has not been supported. Also, the excuse that parliamentary groups should try to provide this money themselves now is a really bad excuse if I can label it so mildly. All of this tells us that we need to be really very careful about everything that is going on in this area, because, despite all of this, the initial fact that the establishment of a bad bank had was the starting point to take control of private companies and also to take over them cheaply, because they are being maintained in the middle, and then, of course, it is cheap to resell them. This was a basic function, although the Bad Bank Act, of course, states that it must be defined in particular that we are rehabilitating the banking system and, of course, that we will also establish the sound functioning of the economy as soon as possible. And I also agree with my colleague Shirtzlje, who said that the only way to get rid of the owners who will manage successfully is to get rid of them, and we will no longer have problems with bad claims. However, the way there, I think, will be quite difficult, because if I come back somehow at that time to meet the Committee on Finance, when, I think, Mr Nyberg has also made it very clear in his opening remarks when he was resolved, I think there was something about this, if we know what we are doing. Of course, you can explain these words in a number of ways, but we must not ignore them and pay more attention. Indeed, the fact is also that a number of people were involved, working both in the banking system and in the business system, in the process of creating a bank hole. And the fact is that a whole range of people today occupy places as executive or non-executive directors who will manage bad claims. Indeed, under this law, it will actually be the task of a bad bank to manage these bad claims. I already said in the opening recital that we actually get a parallel bank or, if you want, a para-state bank that will loan companies that are now at a bad bank, which is, of course, good, because in a very short period of time we would have very many bankruptcys in Slovenia, but a mistake occurred at a time when these bad claims were transferred to a bad bank. If these claims were indeed claims in the form of real estate and sold as soon as possible, then the matter is very clear and there are no problems. However, if you transfer to a bad bank a company that is living, a work that has created, which has not yet agreed with the bank, that it can bridge obligations, if the repayment deadlines are extended and credit conditions improve, and not least by information and by materials that we can obtain, we can find that even around two billion such claims have already been aligned with commercial banks, because these loans have been agreed upon, it is possible to manage them in such a way as to extend the repayment of credits or to improve them in view of the market situation and the possibility of repaying those loans under more favourable conditions than they had been previously when they were hired. This matter is really extremely difficult and I don't think we're going to get to the bottom of it if we don't adopt a special law to actually clear up all these procedures. We're gonna spend a lot of money in the middle of this. A lot of money will go into this and an extension for the next five years means that we will devote a lot of money to the DUTB itself, at the same time if it comes to lending, means that a new dimension of credit is also created here, which we will certainly end up with, if this is not all covered by the sale of property, we will get back to public debt. This is an inescapable mechanism, which is already enshrined in the law. This is the point where it is also very important to find out in this Article 2 which states that the control of the DUDB is carried out by the Ministry. The Ministry of Business Control and the DUTB must provide the Minister with any document he requires and provide all the information, so perhaps one of the good solutions in this law is that the Ministry of Finance will take over, because what is responsible under this law is a very big responsibility. This, on the one hand, may be a good side and, of course, we will see how this provision will actually be implemented. Because more and more information is, in fact, such a nature that shows that the interconnection of those who created the bank hole with the functions they perform today in solving this bank hole is exceptional. It is also not possible to argue that perhaps this was also the reason for Mr Mansson, Nyberg and other colleagues from abroad to be replaced by the bodies of a bad bank. With these solutions that we have on the table today, it will be very important how the Ministry of Finance will carry out its tasks. Whether it will actually carry out its control more effectively than was possible at this point within the DUTB, because there have been no irregularities in the transfer of claims, although I must remind the Court of Auditors that at this point of transfer the matter was very vague, untransparent, were not clear criteria and a wide range of questions is being opened on this very moment of transfer of claims to a bad bank. However, as has already been said today, as the Company for the Management of Bank Claims has continued to operate, in fact, the company under which it will be controlled is controlled, I think that the number of companies located at DUTB is around 572, a practically large part of the private economy that is maintained will be under the direct supervision of the authorities of this bad bank. However, the second part, which is owned by the State and which is owned by the Slovenian State Holding, is under the supervision of the authorities operating this part of the economy. And yet, when we talk about all of these things, I am again warning in the budget that nothing happens to the banks, even though we have strongly recapitalised them, and in fact these banks do not lend to the economy. And the fact is, these banks can't even be credited because they're defined as bad claims in companies that came to a bad bank. My assessment: a very poorly planned concept of bank hole resolution or, if you want, I'm getting more and more confirmed by what I said years ago, when we talked about it, when a bad bank was established, that it was all about one big legalisation of a big place, it was legally happening in front of the eyes, and it was covering it up in law. So all that is going to happen in this area of rehabilitation needs to be carefully examined because if we continue to bear the consequences of the crisis and these poor claims by 2022, it means that we are artificially prolonging the financial and economic crisis, which is obviously over in other countries. After one of the statements made by Banka Slovenije is even finished with us, but as this continues, we are actually artificially prolonging the financial and economic crisis for the next five years. If we add that we have a very difficult situation at the door of entry or, in fact, another crisis, the migrant crisis, we have a very difficult situation, which I do not know if we will be able to manage, if we continue to talk with ourselves, especially about who will be able to cover up some of the bad claims, who will be able to make these procedures rich, to ensure some existence, and, in fact, a large part of people can remain in all of these procedures on the road and become poor. These are extremely difficult questions and require sober thinking, precisely because of whether everything we are actually doing is really just randomly or well coordinated and ready to truly form a narrow, small elite in Slovenia, which then controls the functioning of the country as a whole. And the Members and the Government are just puppets who must then follow these guidelines and decisions. This is far from what was also meant by the establishment and independence of Slovenia and the establishment of parliamentary democracy. A very serious shift can take place if matters go forward in this particular area of parliamentary democracy and parliamentary control as well. And as I have already said in the meantime, parliamentary supervision of these stories around bad claims does not receive sufficient support in Parliament around the bank hole. So it is only for the reason that we keep the companies that are already at the DUTB alive, although I think it would be very reasonable to examine what needs to be done to get rid of this armor, to return them to normal life and to start dealing with them, as is normal and normal and also much cheaper, and to free up the economy, in fact, to function and still create an even more gross domestic product and thereby create prosperity for most people, a large majority or for all people, if you want, in Slovenia. Everything else, of course, will go in the wrong direction. I think it is again, here I warn precisely because the Ministry of Finance is supposed to have great control and influence here, and it is also a very great responsibility, and this may be one of the reasons why there is hope that everything I warn about will not happen to such an extent as I have pointed out.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We're still with Article 2. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u106	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose an amendment to allow the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the President of the Commission on Public Finance to participate in meetings of the Management Board without vote. If these two authorities can also attend the meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, they attend the Council of the Bank of Slovenia meetings, given that the DUTB is a 100 % share company owned by the State, we know that there is a lot of tax money here, we expect support for this amendment, regardless of the fact that the coalition has already rejected such a proposal on the Finance Committee. I also expect the Government of Mira Cerar to define this proposal and if it does not support it to state the reasons why not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We're moving on to Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the two amendments of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much, then I conclude this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much, then I conclude this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups: SMC, DeSUS and SD and the amendment of the United Left Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. With regard to this Article, there was already a lively debate on the Committee, and at that time, at least as far as the coalition groups were concerned, we consulted, implied and also announced that we would bring a certain amendment to this Article to the plenary session. One reason was that today something was also set up in one awkward direction, namely that this bill, or this novel, was supposed to be a cheap ransom for those who were actually involved in this difficult situation. Article 8 kind of defines who should not be involved in obtaining either claims or certain shares of companies resulting from such claims. and here is the basic direction, even then on the committee at the first proposal it was envisaged that first they were somehow, we could say, two knees. Thus, in the first place it is stated that today, if we go specifically to this article, the DUTB may not transfer the claims it has become in the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks to a person who, in accordance with the law governing the company, is considered to be a person linked to the debtor and thus still have other options. And given that this article has proved to be relatively difficult to understand what it says, as it also appeared from what proposals have been made to correct this Article, we have decided to resolve this in such a way as to impose restrictions on takeover legislation. Why? Because of the takeover legislation, it is said that the Law on takeovers contains very precise provisions and very much, we can call it, even divorced ones, who could be regarded as having no right to such a purchase or transfer. Here we are talking about legal persons, about natural persons, about different influential relationships, which can also be connected here regardless of the shares. So it is our opinion to extend this amendment to those who will not be eligible to compete in the purchase of these claims or, as a consequence, in such a way that abuses should not occur. Why I shouldn't say so, because there's always a chance. So, no matter how robust you make a system, there's always a way to do it. Here, for example, there could be some problems if someone were to set up societies in some, say, off-shore countries, hiding behind ownership and so on. And then such provisions would be difficult to circumvent. But then it still remains for those who run a bad bank to judge those who intend to buy such shares, such claims and so forth, and to predict or prevent such sales, acquisitions, whatever the other way. I think that, at least as far as the coalition groups are concerned, and if I speak on behalf of the SMC and myself, we have now solidly added this Article 8 that it cannot be achieved that someone who has previously cooked this is saying bad loans, which is why the transfer to the DUTB, the recapitalisation of banks and so on, has reached cheaper claims, cheaper shares and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u110	President, thank you for your word. I have already started a certain debate on this Article. It was also quite hot and varied at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. In fact, at the time, the coalition realized that somehow you did not protect this work enough. In particular, colleague Janko Weber then gave some assurance that the amendment coalition would ensure that Article 8 of this Act, amendments to this Act, the third paragraph, which was at least the most controversial for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, would change, namely, the prohibition on selling claims to debtors. The existing law now states: "...the legal person in whose capital the person in the previous indent has a share greater than 50%." This means, we establish, say, a limited liability company, we find a straw owner with 51%, but 49% of the owners of this company are the ones who made these debts and claims, and we can buy this claim back after a high discount. You saw that you made a mistake, somehow you were aware of it, but now you've made this article too open. But now we've come to this conclusion that there may be a number of abuses here. Now, however, the well-respected coalition has proposed that the matter be amended to be deleted and that this be dealt with by the provisions of the Law on takeovers, namely "that the person for whom the law governing takeover is subject to the presumption that the debtors or the person referred to in the first or second indent of this paragraph shall act in a coordinated manner". "It is undeniable that it works in a coordinated manner" – you have applied the Act on takeovers and I think you have put a lot of fog over this law here. So, let's say, I don't know, the plane won't look like anyone's gonna be able to buy this claim back after the big discount, but somehow it'll get there. Why did you make this so complicated? Why can't you write in one word or in two words that whoever made the company or the claim that came in that they can't buy that share anymore? The amendment of the United Left is also much more direct, significantly more telling where those restrictions are. Dear colleague Christmas and Secretary of State, do you know how long Article 8 of the Act on takeovers talks about coordination of operations is? This Article shall have nine paragraphs. And read, please, what a dependent society is under this law. What kind of company is this? This means a company where the other person has the majority of voting rights. You have most voting rights when you have a majority share in which another person has the right to appoint or dispose of most members of the management or control body, simultaneously a shareholder or a member, that is, if you want to replace an existing supervisory board, you must have at least a 75% share to replace it, in which the other person is a shareholder or a shareholder or is in control of most voting rights. It's just paragraph four. Then there's nine more in here. Why did you choose such an article to put a little more fog in it? And you are the word 50% – this is my personal opinion, and now I hope that someone will correct me if that is not the case – divided into nine articles and 25 lines. I'm interested in that comment. I'll just say one hypothetical case if we go for it. If someone establishes a limited liability company or a limited company, he will find a straw owner with 51%, who owns that claim 49% in that company, whether he is entitled to purchase the claim or not. And I want an explicit answer. Yeah, but no. With an explanation. Besides, why were we still in here in these cases? What happened today? You said the Bank Claims Management Company has 107 employees today. And you really turned this company upside down, because there are a lot of people working in this company, those — this claim that was transferred to the Claims Management Company — were the custodian of this loan at the bank earlier. Your Honor, this loan was a guardian! The claim was transferred to the DUTB and then DUTB hired this custodian. And now the same who caused the damage manages this claim again, a respected coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u112	In one part, I seemed to be misinterpreted. The previous solution did not foresee that someone with a straw 51 per cent would come, because it was envisaged, so if you go to Article 8, where you have a line within the first paragraph, already there is a lower percentage envisaged, and then if you are actually looking at how much ownership there is to be, and multiply it by 49, we will find that you should not actually exceed less than 5% of the share. We're not talking about 49. The present marriage, why is it so complicated? Because it involves very different people. I don't think we're overcomplicated here, which is why we've referred to an arrangement that's already in force. To stop inventing hot water in several areas and to define the same thing ten times, but to cover more areas with one solution. And there's all sorts of things in there. This isn't just about having some equity written down, and that's it. Here we can have owners, then we have connected those who own, we can have managers, we have those who are connected to them, we have those who are supervised. We have so many different options here that under this takeover legislation, even as it is done here, all of these inside are somehow worked out. So it's not just about making things so complicated. It's about having to list them, telling them who they are. Because if we say just one, say, for the owner, then everyone else is out. And that's why we went to the first rank that actually deals with that direct connection. Then we have all the intermediate connections, because, as you know, even when certain companies are being structured, certain structures can be so long that no one will ever again understand, no one will drink or who pays. The point is, they're all trapped inside. But I said earlier that abuses are always possible, because the innovation of people who have an interest in abuse is high, they are not stupid people, if they have an interest in abuse, they will do so, and in such a case, when the human factor is present, it is up to those who run such a society that when they run such procedures, they have such integrity and such knowledge that they can also prevent this human factor. Marriage can come to some limit, I think we have reached that extreme limit when we have resolved things well, but from here on out there there are always people, because no matter how good the law you write, in the end it is always up to people, whether it will live or not, or whether it will be used in the way it should be applied. You can also cut bread with a knife or do something else. I hope they cut bread with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u114	Just a question, a respected coalition. Then why are you making things complicated if you don't understand why you're making things complicated? Why do you make things vague, untransparent? Why do you include in the law such solutions that will give you the opinion of 5 lawyers that someone is not a connected person and 5 that they are connected? And why are you creating a fog with legislation, why are you not doing the simple solutions that have been proposed? I understand that you must write this amendment, that the coalition must write this amendment. Take our amendment and give it to you, you can write new headlines and simplify things. Why are you getting things so complicated? Because complicated things are the hummus of breaking matters and coming to you, Mr Christmas, that human factor is now up to the term on which legislation will be broken and to which benefit those who are not allowed to have them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u115	Replica, mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u116	Dear colleague Christmas! You're confusing, you're throwing a fog. The worst of marriages is that one marriage then binds itself to another marriage. Why can't you just write that right in there? As my colleague Shircelj has already said, you will get 5 legal opinions and you will complicate the case, as we know a well-known case from the DUTB in connection with the T2 counseled by Nina Plabel, T2 got court-martialed after Nina Plabó moved to the DUTB and wrote a legal opinion for them, but DUTB somehow got it in court. Then the Constitutional Court overturned the case. And look, Madam Secretary of State, I want an answer, I've given you a very explicit question, and I want an answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas, here's the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure allow a replica of the replica, so if I decide to be president, it's not practice, it's okay. What I meant to say is, if you're going to say that you gave us one meaningful solution here at Article 8, I understand, here's the proposal in here by the SDS Group and it says that the third indent of paragraph 1 is deleted. This third indent states that a legal person in capital in which a person in the previous indent has a share greater than 50 % is said to be a provision on the second knee, it is said, that this provision actually further tightens the set of those who have abused and could be greased once again, as it is called. So your proposal doesn't go this way as we did. I understand that it has been difficult, I think it has been awkwardly written down and so on, but your concrete proposal is going in exactly the direction you are trying to pin on us. So please, let me read your amendment again, and think about what you have proposed. And I believe that as soon as there is a third reading, there are colleagues from unrelated Members already predicting that they will give their amendment, and here, however, if you have any better idea, otherwise, because the one you have proposed in this particular case is actually going in the wrong direction in my opinion and in the context that maybe you put it in a different way, and how you see it. Because we can somehow face two proposals on how to deal with this. We have one proposal on how to make this work, how to prevent it, but on the other hand there is no other proposal. On the other hand, there's a deletion, a real expansion of the possibility of abuse. I'm asking if there's any extra effort to be made. We'll definitely have a third, at least I'm expecting a third reading and then we could really do something good here. Since it was not our intention at the final stage, we have already told the committee here that there would be an act. I also take your observations, which you have made several times today, as well-intentioned, because I think there may have been some misunderstanding in this case. But we're coming back to life. In your particular case, it's spreading as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Marco Pogačnik. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u120	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'm going to say the proposal at the end, which is also allowed by the Rules of Procedure. I have already told the committee that there has been some technical error at the amendment and it seems that the meeting has now resumed. If you have listened to our debate, I did not mention our amendment in my debate at all, but I said that it is significantly better to support the amendment of the United Left. It's number three. And I agree that what we are, I once again said because of a technical error, because we wanted only to delete the word 'fifty'. Not that the whole part is deleted. I'm proceding to suggest that this amendment of ours withdraws because it has a technical flaw. But it was interesting now in this last debate, and my colleague Christmas seems to me that he no longer trusts so much in his proposed amendment as he did at the beginning. To propose an additional debate, not to help improve this amendment. You're really complicated, and I think that the Law-Legal Service should take care of it once or also realize that the worst laws are those that rely on each other's laws. You'd better put that in. And I am sure that in this provision, which today is very likely, there will be abuses of taxpayers' money and that those who have blamed the fact that claims have been transferred to a bad bank, that tax money has been used here, through high discounts, would now say, at a low price, they have also bought back this claim.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The proposal or amendment of the United Left Group is one way or another, so you do not have to withdraw yours because we are discussing both at the same time or all three. Mr. Tillen Christmas, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u122	I was misunderstood that I no longer trust our amendment. I trust him, the only thing is that it has been suggested here several times, that there is a better solution, which has not been presented to me for unknown reasons. In fact, twice the wrong amendment was put in, technically, I understand, it was a mistake, twice, but if you put the second one in, then that's exactly why I'm saying there's still a third reading in which there won't be a third time to make the same mistake, but maybe it's really what you thought it would be better. You introduced this to erase this number 50. In this regard, we have also spoken on the committee, and I still think that our solution is broader, more impervious, as far as possible, as far as fraud or fraud is concerned, which is why I continue to insist on it. However, I am always open to this, because there are always better solutions, there are, of course, and if you have, give it, we will talk about it, I think the coalition is open to this, it will also be confirmed. After all, in one case, when we talked about who would be informed about the surveillance reports, we also went, somehow we followed you in the proposal when you said that the National Assembly should also be informed. We also kind of stepped in here. This was also suggested by the United Left a little differently at the time, but we have addressed this problem that we, in addition to the ministries or in addition to the government, should be informed as the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Method Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The government's position, briefly. The amendment of the coalition, as it has been tabled, essentially allows it to exclude the possibility of affecting the buyer's business decisions regardless of the equity share, since this option has actually been eliminated by such a formulation. In addition, any coordinated operation between a number of different tenderers or entities shall be excluded, which could also, by means of a minimum share of ownership, ensure that such claims are acquired or entered into such transactions. According to our assessment, both of the proposed amendments of the opposition parties do not cover these two situations. And for this very reason, Mr Pogačnik, I can definitely answer that, regardless of the percentage, when carefully checking and weighing the customer's compliance or meeting the conditions for someone to qualify for the purchase of the claim, DUTB will have to carefully verify all these circumstances, weigh them and then make a decision on this basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u126	Dear Secretary of State, you have not answered my direct question, which I repeat: Is this provision you have drawn up, a limited liability company, a straw owner of 51%, the one who caused the claim, 49, or can he buy the claim or not? You did not define yourself until the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the presence of the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and the president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the board of directors of the company. Will you support this, my friend Christmas? Why not? Then there's one more thing. The takeover law is clear who is the takeover regulator, the Securities Market Agency. The Securities Market Agency shall assess the coordinated functioning of any other, respected Secretary of State and respected coalition, or shall then include a regulator in this provision. Who will be able to decide whether this company operates in a coordinated manner or not. In my opinion, it's an ATVP.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Procedural or? [[…]] The debate, Mr. Marko Pogačnik. Here you go. Excuse me, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u128	The Secretary of State shall reply, including as to who decides whether it is the ATVP or whether it will be someone else. And the definition of this amendment tabled by the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor to give answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The answer is as follows. As regards the assessment of this coordinated action, the DUTB will have to make this assessment on its own on the basis of such a proposed amendment. This is the content of the proposal. But I answered your first question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u132	Yeah, well, I'm gonna use you for three minutes. Look, I think there's clear evidence here that this amendment to the law on the DUTB, the bad bank, has its own purpose. It has its intentions to sort of stop this coalition from a healthy privatisation. You intend to gain even more power in the Slovenian economy with your own staffing. The purpose of this law is, of course, that you will in some way allow those who have set up the Bank’s Claims Management Company to return to their share under some conditions. You stop the main mission of the bad bank, which was to actively sell claims to search for an active and quality buyer. With this law, you will increase your debt in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the DUTB will not be in debt, this is also stated by the European Commission – that is, by some institution which is supposed to seek responsibility in some way – and those responsible for the five billionth hole in the Slovenian banking system will probably blur the matter out. You're also confusing it with amendments to make this law even more complicated so that you can tie it to the takeover law. Who decides whether the action is coordinated or not? Is that what the regulator is for in Slovenia? Is this the Securities Market Agency? However, there was still no answer as to why you were so opposed and why you did not give support so that the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the President of the Commission on Public Finance Supervisory could be present at meetings of the Management Board without voting rights. DUTB is in the state's 100 percent ownership of the DUTB. It has a single system. Why is this possible in Banka Slovenije, why is this possible in the Slovenian State Holding? What are you hiding? What don't you want the Slovenian public to know? What don't you want the opposition in the National Assembly to know? Where will be allocated an additional EUR 200 million of taxpayer money, which you have foreseen for the structure of companies in the 2016 and 2017 budget. We didn't even know the names. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 8 and the amendments? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 32nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 32. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Tax Procedure Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matei Vraničnik Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u134	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act simplifies tax collection or tax compliance procedures for taxpayers and ensures consistency of tax procedural legislation. In the context of removing administrative barriers for taxpayers, it is proposed that a more uniform deadline should be set for the application of the forecast. A more uniform and systematic determination of the obligation to ensure that tax obligations are met more easily, thereby enhancing the legal security of taxpayers. By establishing one instead of two transaction accounts for an individual and an individual undertaking acting independently, these taxpayers shall be reduced by the cost of maintaining a separate payment account. The tax authority will be able to cover all outstanding obligations with overpaid contributions, taxes and other monetary non-tax liabilities. This will reduce or eliminate the costs of enforcement and thus the fees to the taxpayer. On the basis of the proposed amendment, the tax authority will draw up an informational calculation of the income for all taxpayers. Such an arrangement implements the principle of equality, since all taxpayers will receive a tax information calculation, which means that taxpayers who have not received an informational calculation so far will no longer have to consider whether they have to make a tax return on income or are exempt from it. The bill provides the taxpayer with additional options to facilitate payment of the tax debt. Thus, in cases of preventive financial restructuring, the tax authority will be able to allow the tax to be paid by hand in no more than 60 months' instalments instead of the current 24 months. Thus, the repayment period shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Transactions Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination. One of the more important innovations is the establishment of an institute for a pre-pricing agreement called the APA Agreement, which implements the principle of certainty and awareness of the taxpayer as regards compliance. The agreement is an agreement between the taxable person and the tax authority on the basis of which, prior to the implementation of the related cross-border transactions, the criteria for determining a comparable market price for those transactions for a certain period of time are laid down. The draft law transposes the Directive on automatic data exchange and the Single Reporting Standard adopted by the OECD into the Slovenian legal order, ensuring effective automatic exchange of information, which is an important tool in the fight against cross-border tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. The draft law regulates the obligations of financial institutions in Slovenia, as set out in the Directive and the Uniform Reporting Standard. The draft law thus lays down the procedure for due diligence, the obligation to identify accounts and the collection and reporting of information to the competent authority. The arrangements are very similar or consistent with the arrangements already in place under the so-called FATCA agreement. Amendments to the provisions on tax enforcement, which are in line with this year's established amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, shall give effect to the principle of a social state which must provide everyone with a decent life and thus a condition for survival. Complements and amendments to the provisions governing the tax enforcement of movable property shall prevent the abuse by the auctioneers and the providers of occupied movable property, a higher and faster payment of the tax debt by this means of enforcement, which is in the interest of both the taxpayer and the tax authority. However, the changes and additions to certain provisions on tax supervision are followed by a greater efficiency of the tax authority. It takes into account all the above, we propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act be supported in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 15th session. 11. 2015 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In addition to the draft law, the Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, a letter from the Ombudsman, an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and an overview of the amendments. At the meeting of the Committee, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to each article and by the SDS Group to article 36 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the draft law and stressed that one of the government's tax objectives is to increase efficiency in tax collection and reduce administrative barriers to tax procedures. It further presented all the solutions that, in addition to removing administrative barriers for taxpayers, set out options that enable taxpayers to pay their tax debt more easily, facilitate tax enforcement, introduce a pre-price agreement and transpose the directive and set uniform reporting standards. In particular, it highlighted the deletion of Article 268 of the basic law, which did not provide for the composition of the informational calculation of the income for the taxable person if the income did not exceed the tax relief. She also said that a consensus had been reached on the law with the interested public. In the debate, the members of the Committee asked some specific questions about the individual article of the bill. These are mainly areas that provide legal certainty for taxpayers, the field of informational calculations, large taxpayers and enforcement in general as well as enforcement in the farm household. They highlighted the issue of effective collection of taxes and the arrangements relating to local communities. They also highlighted the fact that the law will have no positive financial implications on the one hand and will increase the costs of adapting the information system to the FURS. The Secretary of State replied to the questions raised and provided further clarifications. At the end of the discussion, the Committee considered the amendments tabled to the article on the draft law. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, but did not adopt the amendment of Article 36 of the SDS Group. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u137	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I think we should all ask ourselves together what is the point of adopting laws, such as this amendment to the Tax Procedure Act. Tax legislation makes sense to amend if it increases either the fairness of the system or increases the efficiency of tax collection. For example, the fairness of the system would be increased by increasing the rate of corporate income tax or by reducing unjustified tax incentives. Unfortunately, this is not the subject of this law. However, the effectiveness of the system would be increased by reducing the cost of tax collection or by selecting more revenue at the same cost. For example, raising the corporate tax rate would also contribute to greater efficiency, as without a single cent of additional costs, more than €10 million of added revenue would be generated. This novel makes no sense either for the first or for another reason. The government in the explanatory memorandum states that income after reception will not increase, while the Financial Administration will have an additional €280,000. We must therefore ask ourselves whether this amendment will at least simplify the procedures for taxpayers. Unfortunately, the answer is not uniform. These 280 000 euros are said to be spent by FURS to provide informational calculations to some taxpayers, especially pensioners who have not yet received them. This is a good solution, and that is why the Socialists support it. However, we do not support the news of the recovery of taxes on farm households. This novel introduces the possibility for tax enforcement to be carried out on the property of members of the farm household who are not owners of the farm and are not holders of the farm. In the United Left, of course, we are aware that the farm household is an economic whole and that members of the household can also be socially insured on this basis. In our view, however, enforcement on their assets is not justified if they are not the owners of the farm or if it is not proven that they have been involved in tax evasion. These guards do not include this law. And we cannot allow farms and farmers, who are often socially vulnerable, to be treated as if they are not separate persons. This novel also does not solve cases where banks charge for access to funds to someone who then turns out to be under-income in order to allow enforcement at all. This is still happening in practice. The Ministry of Human Rights took note of some other problems in the area of unjustifiable execution in socially disadvantaged people, but they did not turn to this novel. In the United Left, we recognize that most of the changes in this novel are useful, but at the same time there are some improvements that are much more urgent. There are also some solutions in marriage that can be criminal, so we will not support this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Tax legislation must be fair, transparent and predictable. If we look at tax legislation in our country, we must first find that we are very unsuccessful in the field of predictability. Tax rules, including the Tax Procedure Act as a procedural provision, are often amended too. The current Tax Procedure Act was adopted in 2011 and has entered into force in early 2012, and has been amended several times. Furthermore, we must note the continued longevity of the appeals procedures relating to the assessment of different types of taxes. Despite the assertion by the management of the financial administration that the appeals procedures are being reduced, we are still being approached by the debtors, including economic operators waiting for a second-stage decision even after a year or more. We are convinced that there are no objective reasons for such long-term overruns, more correctly, and with proper organisation of work at the financial administration, we could ensure timely implementation of the legislation. This area must be regulated by the Minister of Finance and the Financial Administration as soon as possible. Today's proposal for the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act brings some solutions that entail administrative relief and simplification of the tax procedure, as well as its alignment with the applicable Enforcement and Insurance Act with respect to the type and amount of remuneration exempted from tax enforcement. Solutions regarding the removal of administrative barriers in Novi Slovenija are welcomed, as are additional options for the interest payment of the tax debt for the debtors in the process of preventive financial restructuring. With regard to innovations in the area of tax enforcement, however, we oppose the solution whereby the marriage guarantee of the other household members is introduced in respect of debtors holding agricultural activities. This means that the tax administration may recover from the assets of the other members of the farm household an unsuccessful debt due to agricultural and economic activities. This solution is contrary to our conviction to all the basic principles of this law. The forecast for the assessment of the basic agricultural and forestry tax after actual income and actual or flat-rate expenditure consists only of the holder of the agricultural activity, whereas the other members of the household do not have a legal basis to look into or perhaps even influence the submitted forecast. However, the correct dose of the tax depends on the forecast. Furthermore, members of the agricultural household do not have the position of a party in the dosing procedure and are therefore not aware of the content of the decision and have no opportunity to invest in legal remedies. Therefore, they do not have any rights in the course of the dosing procedure. However, they are subject only to an obligation, a debt settlement based on an already authorised decision by the tax authority, which, by the way, constitutes an operator of an agricultural activity. Such solutions, in our view, are absolutely contrary to the principle of certainty, awareness and assistance under Article 7 of the Tax Procedure Act, which gives the debtor the right to be informed in advance of his or her rights and obligations in respect of the collection of taxes and of all other fundamental principles, from the principles of material truth, the principle of legality, the principle of proportionality, the principle of legitimate and timely compliance and the payment of tax obligations. In short, in following only the principle of tax collection efficiency, the government coalition overcame all the remaining fundamental principles of the tax procedure, which is an unacceptable and illegal measure which will have far-reaching consequences in the area of agriculture in Slovenia. We know that our agriculture is based on family farms. The measure taken by the Government literally rejects those young people who may still be deciding on farming on a family farm, since until the farm is taken, they will literally be cashier for the country. In the debate on the parent's working body, we warned the ruling coalition of an inadequate solution, but the ruling coalition for our warnings was deaf. As far as is known from the material, not all stakeholders were invited to coordinate the content of the law, especially the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, and the content of the legal solutions is not aligned with them. Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act for this reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague! The bill represents the first important step in the preparation of measures to improve the business environment and administrative arrangements. In the National Reform Programme 2015/2016, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stipulated that, in order to reduce administrative barriers and simplify tax collection procedures, it would prepare a draft amendment to the Tax Procedure Act. The proposal simplifies tax collection or tax compliance procedures for the taxpayer and ensures consistency of the tax procedural legislation. The adoption of the amendment of the law also requires the need to amend certain solutions, based on the knowledge of the implementation of the current system of proposals by the public and the taxpayers. The main objective of the bill is to simplify tax collection procedures or reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers and increase the transparency of the tax procedure. For example, one instead of two transaction accounts shall also be determined as a single entrepreneur of an individual and an individual who carries out the activity on his own. Such and other simplifications also increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The draft law introduces additional possibilities for interest payment of a tax that allows the taxpayer to pay the tax debt more easily. Thus, for example, in cases of preventive financial restructuring, the tax authorities may authorise a tax rebate for a maximum of 60 months. Thus, the repayment period shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Transactions Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination. The proposed method allows overcoming liquidity problems to a taxable person who does not yet meet the conditions for compulsory settlement or bankruptcy. Complements and amendments to the tax enforcement regime by providing minimum conditions for the survival of the taxable person shall take into account the constitutional principle of the social State in the administration of enforcement, establish equality and fairness of debtors in tax enforcement and shall pursue a faster and greater payment of the tax debt in the interest of the taxpayer and the tax authority. Since the law will remove administrative obstacles for taxpayers and provide additional options to enable the taxpayer to pay tax debt more easily, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Regarding the tax procedure, it must be said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support those solutions that facilitate the payment of taxes, which allow for cheaper payment of taxes and also easier payment of taxes. In other words, we support the transparency of the tax system and some of the solutions in this law, actually simplify tax accounts, simplify certain procedures before the tax authority, and extend certain rights mainly with regard to the rate of payment of taxes. So we certainly agree with such solutions. After all, such solutions also comply with the principles set out in each proposal for a tax procedure law, such as legality, material truth, proportionality, certainty and so on. Unfortunately, in this proposal, the government is also proposing solutions that are not in line with these principles, which I have listed, in particular as regards proportionality, certainty, knowledge of aid and so on. Here I refer mainly to the provisions relating to the farm or mainly to the enforcement of the farm holder's assets. If this execution is not successful, then the tax or financial administration may also reach out to the money and property of a member of this agricultural holding. We estimate that such a solution, for the first time, is not fair and, secondly, is contrary to these principles, which I mentioned earlier: certainty, awareness, right to aid, proportionality and so on. We have therefore proposed an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to resolve this issue in a certain way, particularly in such a way as to require the consent of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber in such a case. After all, these persons are members and in this case such a procedure would actually include an assessment of the social situation of a member of the agricultural holding and other aspects. From this point of view, support for this law depends on whether this amendment is adopted or not. However, I would like to say in the end, even if the bill has some good solutions and then, with one proposal, all of these good solutions are actually eliminated somehow, mainly because they aim at specific layers in Slovenia, at specific individuals or persons performing an activity, then, of course, such a law loses that positive charge that I initially talked about. Once again, support or no support for this law depends on whether or not an amendment to this Article is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Uroš Prikl for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the Tax Procedure Act. The adoption of legislation allowing the introduction of tax boxes was, of course, the beginning of amendments and modifications in the field of tax legislation. But it certainly wasn't the only measure that would bring, we believe, positive results in fiscal policy. One of the laws that includes a very broad choice is a set of measures also a novelty of the law that is now ahead of us. In our Group of Members, we are definitely committed to all proposed solutions that go in the direction, for the first time, of decommissioning or simplifying tax procedures. Secondly, it is necessary to continue to remove administrative barriers that will contribute to the effective fulfilment of the obligations of taxpayers, but let us not forget, of course, that the latter cannot depend solely on the tax burden of those most vulnerable groups of the population. Thirdly, perhaps the most important, equitable distribution of the tax burden should be a priority principle in the reform of tax reform. I'm not talking about reform on purpose. The solutions proposed are numerous and therefore do not surprise the scope of the proposed novel. The positive changes relate to the introduction of a new Institute of Pre-Price Agreement, the regulation of additional options allowing the taxpayer to pay tax debt more easily, tax enforcement, the reduction of fines in respect of offences committed by taxable persons in the electronic processing of data, and the extension of the continuation of the offence procedure for particularly serious tax offences. The recovery of tax debt remains a pressing problem among all proposed solutions, although the problem is slowly being resolved. We were recently also faced with a report submitted on the state and movement of tax debt on day 31. December 2014 Compared to the situation one year earlier, i.e. at the end of 2013, the tax debt decreased by 5.1% in 2014. The analysis of tax debt movements in public treasury accounts shows a reduction in debt in all cash registers, except in treasury municipalities. For example, the tax debt in the pension register is still around 20%, but as I have already said, the situation is gradually improving. Thus, the PPIZ cashier reduced its debt by approximately 3,7 %. In this context, tax enforcement procedures are also in place. In 2014, FURS sent more than 600,000 written reminders to the debtors for tax and non-tax liabilities, over 400,000 tax enforcement decisions and over 30,000 phone reminders for debts amounting to around EUR 1.3 billion. The activities and measures carried out have recovered around half a billion euros in debt. The new law will allow the tax authority to offset taxes and other non-taxable claims with overpaid contributions or taxes. In the Desus Group, we have highlighted only those or some of the key solutions that we believe are crucial, but we also welcome the whole range of measures that are going towards creating an enabling tax environment, since, last but not least, it depends on how our country's economic development will go in the future. We also respect the commitment under the coalition agreement or coalition agreement, which clearly states that we want and strive to collect public benefits as effectively and fairly as possible. In the light of all of this, in the Desus Group we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u147	Mr Janko Weber, a group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. We will also support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, but we see the reasons for support mainly in the fact that administrative obstacles are being removed and one of the most important administrative obstacles is the arrangement for independent entrepreneurs to operate with only one account, so they will no longer need a business account, but will be able to operate through a personal transaction account. This is a solution that certainly means facilitating and reducing costs for entrepreneurs and craftsmen. The law also simplifies the payment of obligations from working relationships for persons employed in natural persons so that, after a new regulation, the employer will actually arrange this, as in other employment cases. An important change is also easier to pay tax obligations as new tax and contribution options are introduced. The Financial Administration will thus be able to offset contributions, taxes or fines between different types of taxes on an individual debtor, which means that there will be fewer requirements for claims, fewer administrative burdens for the debtors and, last but not least, more taxes due to the possibility of closing the open items more quickly. It also introduces two important innovations in the case of taxpayers for income. All taxpayers will receive an informational calculation of their income after the new. So far, those with too little income have not been informed, nor have they often demanded a refund of their overpayments. The law also introduces additional options for facilitating payment of tax debt so that corporate tax debt can be paid in maximum 60 instalments. This also means compliance with insolvency law and at the same time we believe that this also means bridging the liquidity problems of companies and thus preventing possible forced settlement or even bankruptcy. Looking at tax enforcement and first protecting the weak, it is certainly an important solution that social aid is excluded from enforcement and that the share to be left to the debtor will also be increased from 70% to 76% of the minimum wage. The Bank will also not be able to charge specific costs to the debtor after the new one. This must be very welcome for the weakest. The law also allows the financial administration and the firm to agree on criteria for comparable market prices before cross-border transactions. There is also a very good solution by the company's operations, as there will be greater certainty and, last but not least, awareness of tax obligations, which is certainly always welcome in business operations. For the above reasons, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u149	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 18. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 92 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, all of you welcome! In order to submit this amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have decided on one very simple reason: we oppose that, for the purposes of recovery of unpaid tax obligations on agricultural activities, payment may also be made from other members of the farm household and not only from the operator of the activity. What we propose is to add a new paragraph to Article 92 to the second paragraph of Article 180 in order to apply it on the 15th day following the date of receipt of the written consent of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, in which, in that agreement, it confirms that it agrees with this provision. We estimate that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is not familiar with this article or that it disagrees with this article. So I really appeal to you, let me think, you know what population this is really about in the country, and support this amendment of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u151	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Tax Procedure Act will certainly bring about improvements in the business environment by removing administrative barriers, better tax supervision, easier payment of tax debt, simplifying or making tax enforcement a more efficient and uniform standard for the transposition of the Directive. As far as the amendment tabled by the SDS under Article 36 is concerned, I would say that if the members of the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities are closely linked and also have common fixed assets with which they operate, then there is one tax payer. It is certainly right that this tax, if not paid by the holder, is paid within the framework of the farm household. That's why we won't support this amendment. Moreover, because this law was publicly treated and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber did not comment on this law. So we don't think this amendment is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u153	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. We cannot support the proposed amendment. There's more than one reason. First, within the framework of the farm household, we know that relations between household members are generally not formally regulated, as in other relations. This is not the only case where the Tax Procedure Act provides for a solidarity of liability for payment of the tax debt, and this provision does not constitute a greater obligation for members of the farm household than in other cases where there is a certain solidarity of liability for payment of the debt. Second, the provision, as proposed, binds the validity of a certain provision of the law to the written consent of the interest organisation. It is not written within what period of time it is necessary to give consent, it is not written to whom consent is to be communicated and it is not written how the debtors learn that this provision has actually entered into force. The proposed solution therefore brings confusion into the legal order and, above all, makes the decision of the legislative body dependent on the opinion of the interest group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u155	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. We will support this SDS amendment, even though the Secretary of State has just rejected it. There may be some problems with this amendment, maybe, but the problem is, colleagues and colleagues, there is a problem and things are not going in the right direction. It looks like the government and the coalition are getting together to squeeze them. On the other hand, we have a billion-and-a-half-long, total active and contingentable debt of 1.4 billion about, it's said that we don't hunt big fish, but we squeeze those small ones that can be squeezed and don't have a strong legal service, if I can say so to defend ourselves. And that's the problem. We talked about this a lot on the Committee on Finance. About half of my position, New Slovenia's position today was on this topic. I wonder how now a family member in a farm household who does not receive a decision will have to settle this debt if the carrier is due, but this family member will have to settle the debt. Look, we can somehow understand a piece of legislation here, but when it comes to the tax procedure, there can be a lot of different interpretations, including those that we legislators don't think about here at all. I'm gonna take a lot of risks now, take a lot of risks, and I'll tell you what. Because people tell me that, not just one. And maybe I'll test it sometime, but I don't recommend it. If you raise a thousand euros on the ATM, then put it on your own account the same day or the next day, so deposit the cash, and if the tax inspector gets you, he'll ask you where you got these thousand euros. You'll say, yes, I picked up an ATM. Evidence? You have no proof. You don't have any proof that you got those same bills you put down on the ATM. Believe me, that's how things work. And what happens to you? Yeah, nothing. You will pay 70% of the thousands of euros because we have such a law. Ask the tax advisors, because you do not believe me because I am a member of the opposition, but this is how the matter is interpreted by a tax inspector who has to carry out his business. That's how you interpret it. We can call it here today, and let's say the secretary of state I believe, I trust, and I say, okay, everything's fine here. No, it's not. I'm sure it's not. It is true that the law has been in public treatment for so long and so long. Indeed, I spoke to the president of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, who said that they had simply overlooked this law. Okay, their guilt, but of course they weren't invited to ask for their opinion. The government should ask them for an opinion and should ask, "What do you think about it if we also demand family members of the agricultural household?" And it seems to me that in recent times the National Assembly, or ruling coalition, has been adopting a solution that, with a hand to the heart, does not go to the agricultural life. It is a pity that today there is no minister responsible for agriculture who is a fighter for the rights of farmers. When farmers protest, he is in the first place, everything is nice and right, although I don't know who he's fighting against then, but that they would really ask him for his opinion. And I think that this novel of the law on the tax procedure in the government went past it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u157	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u158	One more time. The marriage was held in public for about a month. They had the opportunity to comment on all stakeholders. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber also had an opportunity. It did not respond either at the time of the public hearing, not after the public hearing. Because it often happens to us that a commitment or an interest group will react only later. We also treat these comments equally. When the Government took a decision on this matter, the Ministry of Agriculture paid particular attention to this provision, and we coordinated with them in particular on this provision. Once again, it is unacceptable that the National Assembly, as a legislative body, binds the validity of the legal provision to the opinion or consent of the interest group, where we do not even know who to send the consent or how to inform the public of the consent, as all laws should be published in the Official Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u159	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. I would also like to give an example from the farm household. My husband's got fruit, my wife's got juice. And there's one carrier. I don't know why these two people wouldn't be connected in some way in terms of paying this tax. If the holder does not pay that tax, it shall be paid by another Member or by a member of the household associated with that activity because they work together in some way. I think that in this assembly we are trying to get taxes out of small and large, and that we should not allow this possibility to be said, I don't know, but now we can leave one group a little bit, but maybe some tax should not be paid. I think we must strive to pay taxes to everyone from all activities. We can't make a difference here, not between small craftsmen, not small farmers, not big ones. Each individual must accept his or her responsibility and also treat his or her country and people responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u161	Anybody else want to discuss this? He's checking in again. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, of course, logically and normally, I think all of us here are looking forward to paying taxes. Even those who owe us 1.4 billion. But now this law, this amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, as stated by the Government, will not bring virtually one euro more or more of the debt recovered from tax debts. Now I really want to know how this thing is going to work. Who gets the decision? Does the farmer or all family members receive the decision? How will this matter be purely bureaucratic, administrative glass? And if there are more family members who will pay more, which will be less, there are nothing common owners of basic funds. The assumption that the owner of the basic funds, what colleague Vojka used to say, is the carrier, the others have nothing, are just members of the agricultural household. In what way will who issue the decision, to which sooner, to which more, to whom less, how will it work? I want to know how things work. And now I'd really like to ask for that explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u163	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance has the floor, mag. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The provision is designed in such a way that solidarity can be exercised in the enforcement process. So, a decision has been made to the farmer's household. If he does not pay the amount due on a voluntary basis on the basis of the decision, the case shall be forcibly recovered. If forced recovery is not successful, it is possible to cut or issue a recovery decision to other members of the farm household, subject to the law to the restriction that this solidarity liability can be exercised only in relation to those members of the farm household who are considered to be carrying out the basic agricultural, basic forestry activity themselves, or whether they are the owners of the basic assets with which this farm, this farm household generates income, or whether they are compulsory pension or disability insurance under the title of agricultural or supplementary activities. It is therefore a narrow group of people who have to and are familiar with both the state of the farm household and in any other way participate in the creation of the income of this farm household. However, as I mentioned in the first intervention, the characteristic of Slovenian households is that they do not have a mutually regulated relationship, but actually do things in agreement, mostly with oral arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u165	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u166	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Now, see, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have tabled these amendments, because we estimate that the proposed law is doing harm to a certain part of the population, and in particular, what colleague Horvat has said is how you will technically implement this decision, who will receive this decision. Look, we have come to the realization that this government and this coalition are mainly working under the burden of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But you focused on a particular segment of the population. And since the farm is a part of the farm household, it will have consequences for recovery and for the payment of the tax for others. How will you define these revenues that others have? When can this rube get here? Perhaps this other part of the household can generate other incomes. Dear coalition, here you have decided to burden a farm household, but why not suggest we burden another banking household, a respected secretary of state and a coalition. We also have a banking household in Slovenia. Not there. These are for you, I'd say, untouchable points.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u167	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u168	I'm sorry, Mr President, but I think it's very important that we clear things up here. We're here to talk. A key point was made by the Secretary of State. Of course, there is some agreement in our Slovenian family farms, we have no agreements, no treaties, no notarized relations between members of the family farm. And here's the problem. I would like to know when a family member who did not really know what the agricultural operator was doing, but as a family member will have to settle, through forced recovery, part of the debt or all the debt that the holder of the agricultural activity cannot, what his legal remedies are now, what he will object to, which article of the tax procedure law or any other law. Who's protecting him now? But I also have a question here, maybe it's out of place, but that's why we have experts here. If, for example, you cannot pay or do you not want to pay your income, but you are obliged by decision to say thousands of euros, and you do not pay that – then has this debt also been distributed by household members? I'm talking about income and I'm pulling some kind of analogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u169	Anybody else want to discuss this? The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance has the floor, mag. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Once again, the tax liability is, in any case and in all cases, an obligation to pay, irrespective of the type of income or type of resource from which the means by which the tax obligation is settled. The same applies to the tax obligation arising from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. However, the basic Article expressly prohibits that this solidarity responsibility should be used for a possible annual income supplement for the individual holder of the farm household. It is said that the guarantee or solidarity liability applies exclusively and only to that part of the tax liability arising from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. It may be used for payment of funds or funds at its disposal and the source of such funds shall not be identified in this tax debt or in any other tax debt. I have already mentioned in the introduction that solidarity responsibility is not defined only for members of a farmer's household, but that general solidarity is defined by certain conditions also for other connected persons or family members. However, it does not constitute a solidarity responsibility for the tax authority to automatically transfer the recovery of the tax debt from the primary debtor to the solidarity responsible solely because of the fact that someone refuses to pay the tax, but will first take advantage of all the possibilities that it has for recovery to the primary debtor, only to apply the option of recovery to the jointly responsible debtors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u171	Since I can see there's still an interest in the debate, please sign in. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Look, I'm getting a little pressure from these experiments. If I say a little bit about the comparison, we should also pay employees in a self-employed company to bear the loss in solidarity, as on a farm according to yours. Or, on the other hand, we have a case of some communities that have permanent residences at a social work centre, live in houses, pay nothing, and they cannot be charged social benefits, and they drive expensive cars and live in houses on foreign land. But now you want more farmers or their households, their members in some way to force them to use such cases to be reported elsewhere, just in case the tax does not come and what charges? One will be in the building, one will be at the weekend, and one will be at home to avoid it. I think this experiment is unconstitutional. Someone who lives in a house, in a household, goes to work, gets paid, and another, for example, is a legal person who survives exclusively by farming. Now it's not what it used to be, everyone's working in the morning, everyone's working on the farm, and everybody gets some good because sometimes they only work for food. Now it's different. Now on these larger farms with a machine, almost one does everything. They have robots to milk. The owner of the farm is also the owner of the entire economy, and the others are very little help, except for some major tasks, which is several times a year. And now, by chance, to burden one of these household owners who lives in the same household and goes to work, he has his own money, or someone else, or let's say his parents are pregnant, or his pension, or something like that. I don't think that's working. It is true that you say that the recovery of agricultural machinery, agricultural land and everything else will be first and then it will be next. I'm afraid that with a lot of farmers, it won't be enough to pay off all the credits he took, given the situation in agriculture. And perhaps you too are predicting such cases, so you will adopt this law so that you will indeed destroy the entire family, not just the one who is the holder of the agricultural economy. This seems unfair to me, but it must also be unfair, I don't know so much, but you have a lot of lawyers in the parliamentary group, and you should know that this is also unconstitutional in my opinion. Perhaps this solidarity would have been appropriate 50 years ago, when virtually everyone worked for food to survive on this farm. Now it's gone. Unless you want, family farms that are very much needed, which will also start dealing with some complementary activities, where more time is needed. Are you now going to try to dig this up in advance, destroy it so that you can start to develop in this direction? I don't think that's right. It's not right that you take such solidarity to the whole household. Because then we should also prevent the part of the company from taking the company to bankruptcy, registering another company and working ahead, and the debtors are paid off only with the founding capital of EUR 7 000 500, while the creditors suffer everything else. There should be something done where the most distortions are done, not to break farms in this way, or at least not to frighten them. Because you say there will be few such cases. There probably won't be many, but there will be a few. By doing this, you're just dissuading people from working on this earth.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u173	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Vojka Shergan has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. For those of you who later came to the hall, I would just like to make it clear once again that, in fact, Article 36 does not mean that enforcement is starting to work on all taxes and so forth. The point is that if a common farm is a household and a farm or a forestry activity is carried out or an activity is completed in a common farm household, I said a little earlier, the husband has a fruit plantation, the wife makes juice. And these two are kind of closely connected in their activities. And the carrier is one. When one gets paid for the tax, according to the household tax, then this tax must be paid if the other person who is closely associated with it does not pay it. That'd be a home run. However, it is not about other executions, such as income and so on. It's just for that part. That is to say, we must, in some way, give a message that those who engage in legitimate activities are also obliged to pay the tax. And if he doesn't pay, he needs to be recovered. And we can't argue with that and compare it to what I don't know. If they work together and if there is a tax on the payment of this activity, the same tax on which they have common fixed assets, the common agricultural household and are connected, I do not know why they would object. I see no reason to do this, and I reiterate that this amendment is not unjust and will not deter farmers from doing it. Because I think that farmers still have a healthy farm of intelligence and logic, that taxes must be paid, which is Caesar's, should be given to the emperor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u175	Peace in the hall. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps in the introduction, how many farmers in the countryside are affected by this law? This is not defined in the financial consequences of the law. These are five cases, three of which are cases of mass activity that need to be regulated, or is this again one of those laws that are systematically directed against rural areas? As was the law on social assistance, when for those who barely survive and who are from rural areas, he introduced mortgages, for those who do not work, and they have nothing, but there is no mortgage because there is nothing to book them on. If this government or all the left - hand governments, since there is no difference between them, are systematically dealing only with elderly farmers in the countryside, something is seriously wrong in this country. We passed the law, I don't know, Mrs. Vraničarova was then a secretary of state, on the confiscation of property of illegal origin stolen. Of course we accepted it. The effect of that law on all criminal associations that robbed this country of billions of euros is the same. You have not yet proposed any improvements to the law to make the matter faster, in order to process itself so that there are not so many technical obstacles and so many obsolescences in these areas. Nothing. We have a law that has additional taxation on the property of unexplained origin. What is the effect of these laws? These are the main sources where no taxes are paid. The main sources, because of the theft of the stolen case, are the illegal acquisitions of assets that we have then scattered through the recapitalisation process. Now one government is starting to re-energize some taxes on elderly people in rural areas. The average age of a Slovenian farmer is, I don't know, 60 years. And you're taking laws to interfere with this family economy of elderly farmers. Look, Madam Secretary of State, the Minister is gone again, propose a bill to lower your allowance to migrants. That's where you get the pure effect. And instead of giving four or five meals for migrants, you'll give four or three, one less. So that instead of adidas' slippers and nobody's uniform, you could put on some other outfit for these migrants. You're targeting some target group. And this Cerar government and the former Pahorjeva and the former LDS see the source of the tax charge only in the countryside. Confiscated those who stole, took nothing, taxed nothing, for refugees who come above standard. The standard of refugees arriving in Slovenia is greater than the police and the soldiers they guard. Look, if this is how you're going to go about it, the minister of the Jews can talk in vain about the food chain. It won't be, it can't be, because you're systematically taking it down with pre-emptive measures. I don't understand a policy that destroys the Slovenian countryside and the farmer, but at the same time, I don't know what's out there. The economic power of Slovenian farmers is extremely low. And now you are interfering with some measures that are not adapted to any situation in this segment. Nothing at all. Load up the extra ones that you have named in the Slovenian State Holding which have left, I don't know, a few hundred million euros of financial holes in previous functions, and new ones are looking at that nothing will happen and nothing will recover. Load them up! You have €300 million at your fingertips in each of those you have so named as some executive or other bodies. That's where the resources are. But not in the Slovenian countryside, which practically, if you count all the revenues with subsidies and those minor pensions below EUR 250, does not represent any economic power. The farmer's pension is EUR 250 or 270 and you rejected our proposal to even fix their pension base when we suggested it. We have even proposed this in this mandate. The pension of a Slovenian farmer is lower than the allowance for a migrant. Lower. And you're also introducing new burdens and ways to kind of defuse some of the wealth that these people will have and enjoy a few years before they say goodbye to this land. Unsanitaryly, inappropriately, you are thus engaged in the treatment and destruction of the segment of these people, who have given virtually everything that this landscape exists, that the border is inhabited and so on. If not stimulation for others [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It's obviously the motto of this coalition. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u177	The word is "ma'am mag." Matthew Vraničar Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. I would understand this debate if we dealt with a law with one article that would only deal with this issue. But no, we're dealing with a law with almost 100 articles. And this article, which we are considering, is intended to equalise or, if you want, to treat different groups of taxpayers more equally. This Article shall not impose any additional burden on any member of the holding or the holder of the holding if he fulfils his tax obligations on a regular basis. This Article shall not burden any member of a farmer's household or farm operator if, for any reason, he is in such difficulty that the tax cannot be paid. Since, by law, it has the possibility of being deferred or being paid in return for this tax liability. This article, as it is said, closes one of the legislative loopholes and differences that exist in the treatment of various taxpayers. I have already mentioned that there is already a solidarity liability or guarantee for tax obligations for other connected persons. In fact, members of the farm household could also be considered as connected persons. However, they are linked in such a way that there are doubts under which provisions we can consider them related. It is therefore appropriate, from legal certainty, to deal with them separately. Once again, not all those who live on the same farm are jointly responsible for the payment of the tax liability, but those who are members of the farm household and are considered to be engaged in the basic agricultural and forestry activities or that they are the owners of the basic assets with which this activity is carried out or are compulsory pension, disability insurance under the heading of agricultural or supplementary activities. And I need to talk to you about some other claims. As far as the confiscation of illegal property is concerned, it is not within our jurisdiction, so it is difficult to comment. However, pursuant to the Tax Procedure Act, Articles 68a and 68a, the tax or financial administration shall conduct intensive procedures for determining the origin of property or income for which the taxable persons have not established or submitted the relevant data, and on an annual basis for approximately or on average 10 million additional tax liabilities. As far as migrant allowance is concerned, migrants receive no allowance. Asylum seekers receive a monthly allowance of €18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u179	Quiet, please. Sign up for the word, then you can talk. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, it's true. I’m even a little embarrassed that we’re going around this article and that it’s probably a problem. I can tell you, now you will resent me, of course, that given that this law will probably enter into force there around Miklavzev, this is one fine Miklavz gift for farmers. We would very much like to discuss articles that would bring solutions to how to recover large taxpayers. On day 30. 6. 2015 we have an active debt of 777 million 202 thousand and a conditional debt of 623 million 842 thousand, total 1.4 billion. That's the target. We should aim at this target and actually get as much money as possible out of this 1.4 billion. We understand it so much that we're getting at these little taxpayers, the farmers, and I'm not their lawyer. On these big ones, it's like a caravan goes by, of course, because they have legal services, they have legal knowledge and they're actually playing the country. That's what this is about. That's all this is about. And they're making fun of us. We work here, we talk about taxpayers, we talk about farmers, and they mock us with 100 million more. That's what it looks like. I'm sorry. It's actually been a couple of years. We don't know how to recover these things, and we don't know how to write them. First of all, very simple. The right tax legislation, the right tax system, is such that each taxpayer is aware of his or her obligations at midnight. And if anyone, then we Christian Democrats are the first one to have to pay every citizen of this country their tax obligations up to the last cent. Everyone's a taxpayer. A fellow soldier gave me a good idea. She showed the example of a farm household when a husband produces fruits, apples, if I understood, and a wife produces juice. At first glance, it appears that they are business-related that the husband is the supplier of apples, the supplier of juice raw materials produced by the wife. You said it made sense if the husband was in debt, but he couldn't pay for his wife to pay. Now explain to me what it's like, and now I'll make up another case, because agriculture is what we all understand. What if the husband makes the bulls and the wife produces the dried fruit? Are you also involved in business? Maybe, I don't know. Maybe. So not on cases, but it's actually some unfortunate solution. I hope it doesn't hit the agricultural life brutally. But if it is, I wonder why it's happening again.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u181	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby end this agenda item and the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16 and 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u182	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Authority and the Fund for Resolution of Banks by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present and 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for an Insurance Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 57. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I will explain together what this amendment to Article 57 and Article 67. The article that's next because it's essentially the same thing. But it's the next thing. In the amendment to the law that we have before us, the clause in these two articles, which sets out the criteria for workers who would like to perform the functions of, say, a labour director or a labour representative in the supervisory committee, so high that virtually none of the employees in insurance companies will achieve this. The criterion is that a working director or a working representative must have five years of experience in the supervision of a comparable management position in an undertaking of comparable size. So if I cariculate, if the employees of the Triglav Insurance Company want to have their supervisor, which is legally theirs, and which is also guaranteed by our 75th Article of the Constitution, which provides for labour co-ordination, this candidate will have to have five years of experience on the supervisory board of the company of comparable size. We know this is practically impossible. It is even more impossible, for example, for a working director who should have been a director for almost five years before, or the president of the administration, for example, the Insurance Office of Triglav. In this sense, these two articles are essentially in total contravention of the legislation on labour co-ordination that we have with us because they are directly perverting labour co-ordination into management. So these functions, which are supposed to belong to workers, can only be seized by former managers or former supervisors who previously stood on the side of capital. This means that they will not defend the interests of the employees, but will defend their interests, let's say, of the class. This means that we will in fact further deepen this management paradigm that we have, which has already done enormous damage in Slovenia. If I recall just one example that I mentioned earlier, between 2004 and 2008, the management class is most responsible for the fact that the country's debts have increased by EUR 28 billion in those years, and then they have turned into state debt. It would be time, and we expected this from a government that promised a new policy to reverse the issue, not to put these same managers or former managers where they should actually be working representatives. That is why we are counting on support and, of course, we will support both amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u184	Mrs Marush Škopac has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u185	The requirement of the directive, which is transposed into our legal order by this proposal of the Insurance Act, says that all members of control must have the same achievement of the fit and proper standard. This practice is generally defined in Article 42 of the Directive as requiring members of the board to be professionally qualified and that their knowledge and experience are appropriate for the sound and prudent management of the insurance undertaking. Another criterion is that they are persons of good reputation and integrity. The requirements laid down by the European Directive apply equally to all members of the management and control bodies and do not allow for a different treatment of any members of the labour representations. In fact, insurance companies are specifically responsible for the tasks of members of the board and the supervisory board, mainly because of the fact that insurance undertakings are managed by means of insurers. From this point of view, appropriate and equal professional qualifications are fully expected from the members of the administration who participates as a representative of the workers. We therefore oppose and do not support the amendment of the United Left in the modern centre's parliamentary group. The same applies to the amendment to Article 67 of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u186	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. More explanation in your own name. The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to point that out. In the directive, we went very precisely to a brother, not as narrow criteria as those found in our amendment to the law that we have before us. There they speak of the necessary competences, but the directive speaks of the powers of the Supervisory Board and of the Management Board as collectives. Thus, all members must have competence together, and it is clear, of course, that labour representatives are there to represent the interests of employees. They shall act as a special agent. This special function is derived directly from the Constitution and directly from the law on the participation of workers in management. In this case, it is a non-systemic or even anti-systemic solution and it is also part of an unconstitutional solution. In 2003, the Constitutional Court ruled clearly and ruled that in the case of insurance, there were no grounds for distinction or derogation from the system regime, namely the regulation prescribed by the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. In the United Left we have also obtained three opinions from two unions, one of which is representative in the field of insurance and the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia. Both said that this arrangement proposed by the Government in these two articles is contrary to our constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u188	That is why I believe you will vote against it. Mrs Marusha Škopac has an explanation for the vote on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u189	The second paragraph of Article 57 states that the condition referred to in the first point states that suitable candidates for members of the administration are those who are qualified and have the skills and experience necessary to manage the business of the insurance undertaking, that they are not legally convicted of a crime, that they have not been initiated by a personal bankruptcy procedure and that they are persons of good reputation and integrity. It is said to meet the conditions if they have sufficient theoretical and practical knowledge to manage insurance business. It shall be deemed that, unless proven otherwise, the condition referred to in the first point of the preceding paragraph is met if the person has at least five years of experience. It is said that a person may have five years of experience and be automatically deemed to meet the conditions required, but these conditions may also be proven and justified differently. Of course, I don't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u190	Please, other Members, I am in charge of the meeting myself, and I would have said it myself before you intervened. An explanation of the voice in my own name, I hope this time, too, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, chairman. In order not to forget, we will finally vote in favour. If Mrs SMC had listened to what she said to the end, we would have seen that we were only reading the directive in some light, which places working co-decisions and co-owners in these bodies to express myself. Of course, they won't let you in, I'll tell you in my own way, some sage. We are already a third of the mandate and the European Directives can be read in one way or another. After all, it is a group of 28 countries and European directives are written as they are written. The combined left reads them as he reads them, and for the good, as you probably understand from what Luke said. The SMC reads them differently because it represents some other groups in this society. He's just so sorry for once. I'll vote in favour. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u192	We have completed our explanations of vote and can decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 57. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 53. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 67. We're voting. Breakup. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In my own name. Mr Primož Hainz has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I have to say, between these two articles, there's a small difference. If even in the administration we can advocate the thesis of education, of behaviour, of course at some high level, of course we would not discuss reputation and integrity, but in the supervisory world it is so important that a representative of workers is someone who can truly represent authentic labour interests. Therefore, the interpretation can only be such that this article can be abused if it is not clearly written, as the amendment proposes. I will, of course, support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u194	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Mr Branko Zorman has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. Apparently, some of my colleagues are not reading this text correctly. As was the case with the amendment in the preceding Article, the text is exactly the same as in this Article, indicating the four conditions to be met by the members of the administration or, in this case, in this amendment we are talking about, by the members of the Supervisory Board. And I will only talk about the first point, about this first condition, where it says that it is properly trained, so this person has the qualities and experience needed to control the business of the insurance company. And that's the condition. And this is achieved by a number of workers who are employed at the insurance company. Then it adds that it is considered to meet this condition also by someone who has at least five years of management or control experience and so on. This is said to be not an additional condition, but if it meets this condition, it fulfils this first basic condition, which is that it must be professionally qualified and have the qualities and experience necessary to control and manage the business of the insurance undertaking. There's no way we're excluding any employee at the insurance company. Thank you. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u196	Any other explanation for the voice? In your own name? The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you. I would just like to say for an additional explanation that we have decided on these two amendments after asking the people who are dealing with it. So, trade unions from this sector and the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia. Both read these two articles in exactly the same way as I presented them, and they said that this meant the end of working together in insurance companies. I therefore once again call on all Members and Members to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u198	I believe you'll vote in favour. The call does not belong to the explanation of the voice. Neither does the debate. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to call, but I have to. I will vote in favour, of course. You know, co-creating legislation is not the same as reading literature. A colleague from SMC and I can read something and someone imagines in the literature that a lady is blonde, another imagines she's been cut. However, legislation should be more uniform. Why it is written as it is, it is probably clear from this debate. I will vote in favour, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u200	Now we've really finished the explanation of the voice. We vote on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 67. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 53. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 92. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 43. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 96. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 4 votes against 47. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 494. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u201	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment. This amendment refers to the fact that the members of the expert board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency could not be employed by these agencies at the same time. We are convinced that such a provision is only correct, because if, in the professional board of the Agency, which also exercises not least control over the functioning of this agency, it proposes certain decisions, there could be a conflict of interest that, in the morning, the person who is employed prepares certain acts, and in the afternoon when he is a member of the expert board, this will also confirm his one and the same work. An exception would be the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which could be a member of the expert board, but would not have had the right to vote. Given that the country in insurance in Slovenia has more than 60% of the equity market share, we are convinced that this risk of conflict of interest is even greater. We expect support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u202	Mrs Marush Škopac has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u203	Contrary to the SDS Group in the SMC Group, we believe that if all members of the Council of Experts, with the exception of the Director of the Agency for Insurance Supervision, were to be external, this would mean a reduction in the responsibilities of the supervisor for the exercise of legal powers, which is not good. We believe that the participation of employees is justified because the composition of the Section is the same as that of the Senate and the Senate is the decision-making body. We therefore disagree with the proposed amendment and will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u204	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u205	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I myself will support the proposed amendment in particular to avoid conflicts of interest. Of course, I did not expect this amendment to be supported by the Modern Center Party. Since your government is recently a magician. Gorada Chibei, who ran on the list of SMCs that was a member of the Executive Committee of the Modern Centre Party, appointed and proposed to the expert board of the Agency, which was employed by this agency. And, Your Honor, I think that says a lot about the work and staffing of the Modern Centre Party to appoint the members of the Executive Committee of the candidate on your list to the Agency's Professional Council. We know what they have already said in the Insurance Supervisory Agency what constitutes the greatest risk for the Slovenian insurance market. This is the State ownership share and the Republic government bonds in the portfolio itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u206	Nor was that an explanation for the voice, but a debate, a controversy, an attack, whatever we call it. However, he did say how he would vote. So that we can decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 494. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. (For the vote was 22.)(against 47.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 611. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 1. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 616. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 43 votes against6. (The vote was 43.)(against 6.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 617. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 6. (The vote was 41.)(against 6.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since, in the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a dozen articles of the amended draft law and the applicant has already proposed, in the introductory explanation of the draft law, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 21. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Tuesday 24. 11. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 31st item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to Strengthen the Stability of Banks under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 2(1). An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you for saying that again. Point 2 deals with supervision in a bad bank. We all know too well what happened in the past. I don't think there's a man in this room who would hope to say that surveillance at a bad bank worked. The novela that's ahead of us is going in the right direction here. It also goes to the level of control in order to increase control. In this case, we are talking about supervision by the Ministry of Finance, but it seems to us in the United Left that the proposed formulation will unfortunately stop somewhere halfway. Otherwise, the Ministry gives some powers, but not enough, to enable the Ministry to exercise effective control over the functioning of the bad bank. It does not allow access to all data, in particular to confidential data, which means that the Ministry does not have access to credit cards. As we know, there are bad claims in the last instance of the credit card, and whoever deals with bad claims deals with credit maps. So his supervisory authority must have an insight into this matter in order to be able to exercise control at all. We have therefore formulated the wording in Article 2 in a way that could also require the Ministry to look into this data if there was a legitimate reason for this. Of course, we are aware here of the danger that the Ministry should not be running around following these maps. However, we are in favour of allowing access to the Ministry where there are reasons to do so. I will, of course, vote in favour of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u208	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 2(1). We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 11 votes in favour and 62 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 2(2). An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Here we are talking about the amendment to Article 2, paragraph 6, and we are, in fact, back to working together. We've driven him out of insurance before, and now we have an opportunity to fix this mistake in case of a bad bank. Internal control, staff supervision is another unused security guard in a bad bank. Since this institution is not only the directors we see on television, it is not only those who receive 30 or more thousand a month for their work, but they are still slightly higher wages because they think they are too low for the responsible functions they perform. Bad bank, I got this data on the basis of a request for more than a month and a half, they're 103 employees. And these 103 employees don't have the ability to co-manage, they don't have the ability to look at information, they don't have the chance to get any work director or anything like that. Therefore, in the United Left we propose to include a bad bank in the system regime in Slovenia. It is said that the bad bank also starts to comply with the provisions of the workers' law on cooperation in management. This law, in spite of the fact that it is a system of regulation directly resulting from the Constitution, is being consistently violated. Because it is consistently breached, however, it leaves a greater autonomy for managers. When we leave managers' autonomy, we see what's going on. We saw it in the banks, we saw it in the reinsurance companies, we saw it in the bad bank. Each of these practices has been worse, and here again we have one chance to change this paradigm to start turning it around, and this is somehow also expected from a new policy. In the United Left, of course, we are proponents of such a policy and, of course, we will unanimously support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u210	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 2(2). We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 62. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 3(1). Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you. Article 3 speaks of remuneration policy in a bad bank. The remuneration policy has been a problem, and we know that we have had quite a few problems with this in recent months. After all, they have not come to an end, even though the government has taken a decision on a limitation. But in this article, we would do something a little more transparent and systematic. We propose that a bad bank, as a state institution with 100 % state ownership, be classified in the so-called Lachovnik Act, which means that in this case the remuneration of management would no longer go beyond six times the average salary in this institution. This would provide still very high wages, but at least we would reach some systemic level and reach some level that Slovenian legislation allows. There is no reason why a bad bank should be exempted from these system arrangements. That is why in the United Left we will unanimously support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u212	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 3(1). We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 8 votes in favour and 61 votes in favour. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3(2). The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u213	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose an amendment, which we will support, that the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the President of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision may participate in meetings of the Management Board of the Banks. We are convinced that this practice, which allows such participation already in the world of Banka Slovenije and on the SDH Supervisory Board, should also be introduced into the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. The Bank Claims Management Company has a single system, a board of directors. However, the function of the Management Board in the single system is also a supervisory function. We estimate that there is a lack of control in this society. Because of events that are probably known to all of us, we have proposed that both the coalition and the opposition have representatives here. In view of the debate at the plenary session and the working body, I once again appeal to Members and Members of the coalition to support such an amendment. But I'm worried that you won't, because the Secretary of State hasn't said why this amendment isn't acceptable to the government of Mira Cerar and this coalition. Your Honor, I'd like to know what you're afraid of and what you're hiding so you won't let two Heads of Staff of the National Assembly take part in the supervision of the Bank's Claims Management Company. The fact is that the Company for the Management of Bank Claims is 100 % owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The rehabilitation of the banking system cost Slovenian taxpayers more than €5 billion, and I think these are the reasons why additional and enhanced supervision is needed. Of course, there will be no political pressure here, because this amendment does not give the other President voting rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u214	Mr Tillen Christmas has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. We will not support this amendment in the SMC. As far as control is concerned, our position is somehow so that it is now strengthened by the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, and those surveillance reports will also come to the supervisory board. It is said that they will come to the National Assembly, which has received wider support. In addition, the Court of Auditors is already in control. At least in our view, the presence of a particular pressure on the board of directors and also on the decision-making of specific decisions due to this presence. When we look back at past practices, what experience we have, it is that, after all, representatives of the National Assembly were sitting in the Bank of Slovenia at the time, but there was no serious impact. I think that then comes, at least we have this view that there is some sense of visual control or sense that this control is taking place, but in fact perhaps because of the lack of skills and also because of the lack of professional support, the control person somehow does not have the effect that everyone would like. That is why we leave this to the institutions responsible. At the same time, as I have already said, we have supported in the SMC the reporting to the National Assembly on the current situation or on-going supervision carried out by the Ministry of Finance and on that audit supervision, the ex-post supervision carried out by the Court of Auditors and also on our bench, to the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. As we say, we will not support this amendment in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u216	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment myself. I think it's appropriate for the supervision of this institution to be strengthened. I do not know why we would make differences between institutions, such as the Slovenian State Holding, where the President of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision is present, but the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy are present. Was this the reason why the pressure of the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance at the SDH Supervisory Board meeting helped to replace the administration? If you have now made these arguments as you have, then we can also explain in this direction that the pressure of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy has helped to change the administration of the Slovenian State Holding. Your Honor! Decide what you want, what you want. But I believe there's a lot you want to hide. But look, this is about the taxpayer's money. And also the institution, such as the Slovenian State Holding, is supervised by the Court of Auditors. And Banka Slovenije writes in all the acts that this is an independent body. Not to mislead Members and Members of Parliament, the professional public, but the masks of the Modern Centre's Parties have fallen down a long time ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u218	Once again, the debate and the accusation rather than the explanation of their own vote. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment. And I'm not finishing my speech. See, you have drafted a law that actually introduces a new organism, a new Slovenian state holding company, which, at least today, appears to be a click from the NLB allowing cheap to sell that property that has been transferred to the DUTB without one single control. NLB personnel will now decide whether to sell or maintain those bad loans themselves. The only possible measure to inhale this law is the presence of the President of the Finance Committee and the President of the Parliamentary Commission for the supervision of public finances on the Management Board. Look, don't talk about people sitting there who aren't qualified. If your Chairman of the Committee on Finance is not qualified, i.e. by the coalition, I assure you that the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances is highly qualified to participate in that meeting. And Mr Dragonja said that from his experience with SDH this seemed to make sense, but that the Minister of Finance was against it. And that's why again SMC, I'm not going to tell you what this shortcut means more and more to me, vote against. But since the committee voted in favour of Desus at least, I believe that there is still some sense in this National Assembly and this coalition that this control will ensure and, at least in a small part, improve the transparency of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u220	An explanation of one's own voice means that one deals with one's own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u221	[[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Conducting the sitting means that a person is involved in the management of the sitting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u222	But this time I'm going to go through it today, Mr. Angie Logar, I'm going to give you a reminder. Mr Luka Mesec has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you. I think we all kind of wish that we could trust institutions like bad banks. But given everything we've seen from a bad bank in the last three years, not just the last few months, I think this bad bank deserves a bad name, but it certainly doesn't deserve our trust. We have proposed two amendments to strengthen control over this institution, which is necessary if we want this country to do well. Because they were rejected, and even if they weren't, we're going to support this amendment because it's in place. I think the National Assembly needs to be informed about the developments there, because otherwise we will be Members cut off from information again and we will depend again on things that will happen in the media by accident, and our control reactions, which we have as a legislative body, will again be too late and the Swedish bankers will repeat themselves to us indefinitely. That's why, I'm speaking for myself now, I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u224	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3(2). [[advertising from the hall]] We'll file a report. He has the floor to explain his own voice, Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this amendment because I am sure that such a standard should already be present in the original text. The Court of Auditors, the DUTB itself and the other institutions mentioned are very different in origin and role. They cannot be left out of control, given the fact that they own 100 percent of the country and manage everyone's assets. The Court of Auditors shall have its own institutional role. The only body in a democratic regime that does not succumb, which must not comply with any instructions, is the Parliament. Parliament is one who can guarantee transparency in public administration. That is why I will support this amendment because it is about the accession of the legislative branch of power, which is democratically directly elected from the people, to the body that manages money that is from people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u226	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. As the leader of the Group has already said, we will support or support this amendment. As we have already said in the debate, although this is not a debate now, I know, Mr President, this is going in the right direction. In the opposition, with a whole range of amendments, we wanted to narrow this direction even more uniformly so that we would not then debate what anyone thinks or does not think. But I'm a little freaked out when I listen to this argument, and I really can't deal with this SMC anymore, who you are, who you're not. That's what the elections will decide. But yesterday it was said that someone was taking responsibility, but now someone was talking, and we're not capable of anything. You know, some basic logic. And I'm getting scared. I will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u228	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3(2). We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 3(3). An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members of the United Left shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. We're back in control of the National Assembly. In the United Left with this amendment, we propose that the National Assembly should be able to propose calling off one of the executive or non-executive directors of the bad bank if it detects any irregularities. Under the current regime, these withdrawals may be requested by the Minister of the Economy or the Minister of Finance, who unfortunately did not show determination in the past when it was necessary to respond to the extreme irregularities that took place in this bank. It was only media pressure and, in fact, half a year of problem-gathering, the culmination of these problems that led us to actually start talking about the possibility of slightly overwinding the leadership of a bad bank. And this time we did it in half. There are still people out there with clear conflicts of interest. We even caught one on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission on a lie. The other two, who went, were probably lucky that they were, like, operationally capable of communication, able to even begin this plasma in the media, so that we could get some basis in the National Assembly for ending this story. With the amendments we have not accepted here, control will be difficult and we will be in the National Assembly, as I said before, dependent on some media information. But we can at least partially remedy the situation by giving the National Assembly the opportunity to propose the discharge of these officials if we notice that irregularities occur again in a bad bank. In the United Left, of course, we will support this amendment, because, as I said before, our intention with these amendments is to increase control over an institution that is not only bad in its own name, but is bad in its functioning.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u230	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 3(3). We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 61 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5(1). We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes in favour and 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 5(2). An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. And here we're essentially coming to that part of the law that talks about the functions of a bad bank. A weak bank was established with one function, that is to take on bad claims and then sell them out or sell them out. There was also a clause in the law, at what speed this should have been, which, according to our assessment, proved to be harmful because things were sold intransparency, probably under prices and with all the problems that we have unfortunately been able to monitor in recent years. Actually, we're starting things a little differently with Article 5. The government here has gone in the right direction with this change to grant the preliminary right to shareholdings in SDH companies and employees. Unfortunately, however, this preliminary right applies only to undertakings which are defined as strategic or important in the State Investment Management Strategy. In the United Left, however, we note that we also have portfolio companies which SDH does not have to sell within a short period of time, and it would also make sense to grant a preliminary right to either employees or SDH, even when it comes to mixed ownership. That's saying we have half at a bad bank, half at SDH or something. In this way, for the first time, we will optimize the restructuring of businesses, secondly, their ownership will become clearer in this way in the medium term, because, as we know, one of the biggest risk factors in firms in difficulty is just unclear ownership. That is why, of course, we will support the amendment because we want the amended legislation to give the bad bank a basis for actually becoming a productive factor in this society, an institution that saves companies rather than dismembers them, sends them into forced settlement and sale.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u232	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 5(2). We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 12 votes in favour and 61 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 5(3). Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. In this amendment, we extend the preliminary right of dwellings transferred to the so-called bad bank, not only to housing funds, but also to municipalities according to the territorial key. Tomorrow we will discuss the National Housing Programme. We know, as I have already explained in the debate today on behalf of the United Left, that we need 6 to 8 thousand housing units. As I said at the time, it will soon be a quarter of a century from the so-called Jóbinsk marriage, many people of my generation and younger people have not had this opportunity to come to their homes, or, more directly, their parents are still alive. And after all, it is also a constitutional category suitable for housing. If we are serious about the National Housing Programme, if it is not just some relatively incomprehensible reading document for the policy, then you will support it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u234	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 5(3). We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 62. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6(1). We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 6(2). An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, again. This amendment also touches mainly on the way the bad bank operates. As I mentioned earlier, so far it has been considered that a bad bank has to sell 10% of its portfolio annually, which meant that there was a legal compulsion to sell too fast, is a sale, which means selling below the price, which brings with it many other problems. In the United Left, however, we wish that the bad bank would not be a saleswoman of companies, but, above all, their ambulance and prestructor. Therefore, in Article 6, we proposed an amendment to include in place of this clause that a bad bank must sell only enough assets annually to cover its legal obligations. These are to cover operating costs, operating costs and to pay government bonds across the board. Her primary task is to rehabilitate businesses. And that's why we're going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u236	We therefore decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 6(2). We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 62. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 62.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 8. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left and the amendment of the SDS Group to the same Article under points 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u237	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will not support this amendment of the coalition in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This amendment is one of the key to this amendment of the law, as we have already said in the introductions. This amendment to the Bad Bank Act allows for the actual theft of taxpayer money. On the one hand, given the change, the bad bank will now change so that companies can restructure. It is clear from the budget that some 200 million budget money is spent on this. However, a key issue which speaks of this amendment is the prohibition on the sale of claims to persons associated with the debtor. Regardless of the coalition's promise, which we have already pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the working body, you have not changed anything in this article. You've changed the number fifty, but you've thrown one big fog so that this 50% figure can't be seen. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are confident that this amendment will allow those responsible for the transfer of claims to a bad bank to buy back these same claims at substantially lower prices. We know that these claims have been transferred from discounts more than 70%. And now, for example, someone who's done 120 million damage to the taxpayer's money is probably going to be able to buy that claim now with 10, 20 million. All of this speaks well of the way the coalition and the government of Mir Cerar think and of what change of this law is also meant for. This means that the basic mission of a bad bank will turn its head, the bank will no longer sell claims and look for strategic and active buyers, but you will go into restructuring with tax money, where it is likely that they will again have the largest of these various advisory services and individuals. We are also very surprised that the Secretary of State or a team from the Ministry of Finance said that coordination would be checked by the DUTB itself. You're mixed in here in the Bad Bank Act as well as the takeover law. And you're mixing the fog with that. We are convinced that the presumption of consistency can only be decided by the ATVP, as is the case under the Takeover Act. Think about it before you vote. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u238	Mr Tillen Christmas has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. We will support this amendment, which we have also proposed. It is the result of a debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and is the answer to the fact that such abuses would not have occurred, that those who have actually taken advantage of or have done poorly with their companies and are the result of this transfer of claims to a bad bank, the recapitalisation of state banks, in order to obtain the shares, claims or other assets that are currently at the DUTB. In fact, this amendment further strengthens the conditions that a person must fulfil in order to be eligible for the match when offering to buy these or shares or claims. We have applied ourselves to takeover legislation precisely because it is extremely exact, which does not judge everyone in this circle or in our particular case. We're talking about companies, about natural persons, about connected persons, about contractually controlled persons, about persons with potential influence. In the SMC, we consider this to be an appropriate answer to this question or a risk. That's why we're going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u240	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. This article is one of the key. In this article, there is a guardian or at least a guardian that those responsible for the poor situation of businesses are, therefore, past owners, former managers who have run these companies into bankruptcy, that these matters have now been transferred to a bad bank, could not have been restored to ownership. Here's the next story. In Slovenia, on average, we had a 71% discount when transferring claims from banks to bad banks. Now the bad bank is partly supposed to go in this direction under the new legislation to try to rehabilitate these companies, in fact, it has already put them in charge. Now it would be a total crime for the people who in the first stage launched these companies into bankruptcy to be forgiven for their sins, and then, at discount prices, the company, when about to be rehabilitated, could get back into their own hands. Therefore, in this article, the record must be as sharp as possible in order to prevent this absolutely. We have already addressed this issue on the parental committee and have found that the record was inadequate at the time. Unfortunately, in the United Left, we find that the existing record is not better, so we will vote against it, because in fact we have a better amendment for the same article, which would actually make such practices impossible, so that a legal person who was sometimes the owner of a company or a natural person should not have more than 3% of the shares in the company that would now like to buy something from a bad bank. This would make it absolutely impossible for such practices to occur. In the current formulation, however, we are concerned that it is not such that this is another smoke screen for the continuation of practices that, unfortunately, we have seen too many times in the past. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u242	We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 8. We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present, 47 of whom were voted against and 24 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 24.]] As the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 8(1) were adopted, the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of the SDS Group to the same Article under points 2 and 3 become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. We're voting. 76 Members were present and 20 were voted against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present, 20 of whom were voted against and 51 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15. We're voting. 76 Members were present and 24 were voted against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law and the applicant had already proposed, in the introductory explanation of the draft law, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u243	Madam President, in the SDS Group we will oppose such a proposal. But we're going to argue for a number of reasons. We're sure with the change you're making from the bad bank law, you've turned the bad bank upside down. The main mission of the bad bank, which has so far been to sell claims, to search for active strategic owners, has turned you into a restructuring of the economy. The restructuring of the economy by the state, we know what the consequences are. Not today, but about a few years later, he lands at a history dump. But in these years, there is also a purchaser of taxpayers' money, and lawyers and consulting companies benefit from it. The Secretary of State was unable to respond, despite the fact that the budget for 2016-2017 was adopted yesterday, that you spent more than 200 million taxpayers' money on restructuring companies. Amend Article: Prohibition of the sale of claims to persons associated with the debtor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we're sure you're mixing a lot of fog. You throw a fog at a bad bank so you can do business that suits you. And there is a high probability that very cheap ones will come to share in these companies who are responsible for the 5-billion-dollar tax hole. Why did you decide to include the takeover law in the law itself? You know what that means legally. That in one marriage he refers to another marriage. The takeover law is a very complex law. No matter what you say, "That doesn't mean we gave extra protection." You have replaced one word with an article in the Download Act, which has nine articles and 24 pages. That means everyone will probably be able to give, I don't know, five legal opinions. We're going to repeat what's already going on at DUTB. Nina Platko once works for T-2, does not go bankrupt, then works for DUTB, is sent to bankruptcy, and in the end the Constitutional Court, which refuses bankruptcy, decides. Finally, see, this is the decision of the ATVP, all these provisions can be decided only by the ATVP. The Secretary of State said the DUTB would decide on its own. A lot of compensation suits are gonna go. Now it is clear to us why you have so sovereignly refused that members of the National Assembly may also be present on the board of directors of the company. Your Chairman of the Management Board, who you have personally assessed as incompetent, shameful, we assess that your chairman of the Board is capable of overseeing the DUB as well as the President of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support such a proposal, and we expect this law to have a greater debate, because this will indeed be the place of the taxpayer's money.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u244	Dr Bojan Dobovšek has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u245	Thank you. We see that the law is indeed problematic and that this Article 8 is key to risk management. As I have already announced in the presentation, we will at least try to resolve part of the matter, because we see that the voting machine will confirm this law. At least we are proposing an amendment to Article 8 and predicting it, and we have already aligned it with the Legal and Legislative Service. At least what we have forgotten in this regard is legal persons who, through subcontractors or related persons, have participated in assessing the value of the transferred claims. So we kind of let these people go. We do know, however, that these persons are interested and related to persons who have already purchased or have announced the purchase of these claims. By proposing that the coalition's parliamentary groups support at least the proposals mentioned above, but there could certainly be better solutions than had been promised to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u246	We are voting on a procedural proposal whether a third debate is held or not at the same meeting. Mr Tillen Christmas has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u247	I'd like to give an explanation as to this law, and we certainly support it. This introduces new tools for corporate financial restructuring. This also improves the possibility of effective coordination between the creditors and other stakeholders so that these companies will also be successfully restructured. We are also talking about the release of pressure for a bad bank to sell under pressure, when the operating time is slightly extended to internationally comparable, that is between 5 and 15 years. This one's gonna be in the middle of something. It is then also improved control of the operation of the DUTB, since the Ministry of Finance will acquire additional powers of control and will also inform the National Assembly on a quarterly or on a quarterly basis. We are also talking about improving the definition of competence between executive and non-executive directors, which has perhaps been a somewhat gray area so far, and increasing accountability. We are also talking about improving the scope of prevention of abuse in this particular Article 8. I am sorry that we have not already received it from unrelated Members so that we can have a little more in-depth discussion. And maybe it'll be time in the third reading. As well as improving the transparency of the functioning of the bad bank. As has already been said, we believe that this novel will bring tax money to a greater extent than it would have been if these novels were not adopted, which is also one of the objectives of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u248	By deciding on this decision, we only decide whether the amendment of the law will be adopted or decided in the third reading at this meeting or at the next, if it is prepared. Please do not give so much substance, we are primarily talking about this decision. The text shall be given by Luka Moon to explain to the vote of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thanks for the word, but not for the lapsus. In the United Left, we have already said in the debate that this law is going in the right direction and we would also be willing to support it if our amendments were followed. Since they're not, we're abstaining until marriage, except for the point I pointed out earlier. That's Article 8. And this Article 8 is why we cannot support the conclusion that this is still being considered at this meeting. In Article 8, we actually have the danger that the previous owners who have bankrupted businesses will now return to their assets at discounted prices. We will therefore vote with restraint here, but we will propose the amendment to Article 8 once again, and I call on the coalition to reconsider if it may not be worth more here, because, lastly, the damage will be on your side and you are responsible for the abuses if they happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u250	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to report anyone who wants to explain your voice in your own name. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u251	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will support this proposal myself. I think there's more than one reason. Look, 5 billion taxpayers' money has already been lost, and I think it will be difficult for citizens and citizens to explain that in Slovenia we will carry out the third rehabilitation of the banking system at the expense of taxpayers' money. I think it would make sense to take time to read this law in the third place. And we will see what cooperation there will be with the parliamentary groups. But this bill, which you have proposed, I am the Honourable President, if you would warn your House of Parliament. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u252	That kind of thing is going through, and I can hear you all the time. Keep talking. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u253	It's hard to say if others talk, but the voting machine of the SMC coalition, Desus, Social Democrats, the government of Mira Cerar will, of course, do its thing. But look, you're not playing with your money, you're playing with taxpayers' money, you're playing with the money of all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u254	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you, President. Five billion of us cost us a trip of corrupt bankers covered by taxpayers. The bad bank has always aroused quite a lot of passion, remember, some have sent it to the Constitutional Court, some have opposed and so on. But today he's here where he is. The government of Mira Cerar has headed a bad bank due to allegedly excessive wages, but it also took more than half a year to head it. This law will cost taxpayers at least €700 million over the next two years, €350 per taxpayer. And you would like to adopt this law in a quick manner. Could it please be peace in Mira Cerar's client or what you are?Oh, my God! See, a law that has such financial implications, which thus changes the management of bad claims in the profund, which completely reverses the management of state property, cannot be adopted in a rapid manner. Remember, €5 billion, €700 million by this law, not a quick procedure. The third reading is necessary already in order to find such a dictatorship that it will apologize and receive the votes not least of the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u256	Mr Roberto Battelli has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I supported the amendment of the coalition to Article 8, because it was the only realistic one. Anything else would have been rejected. This, however, leads to the point we should have reached years ago. I hope that a group of unrelated Members will make a forecast amendment that will go even further in this direction. Now I'm gonna hold on. And this is because I am deeply aware that these things would not be dealt with in this way at all if we did as soon as possible a very simple matter: identify the creators of the bank hole, the mechanisms they used, remove these mechanisms from the possible abuses of our legal system and exclude these people from any management of public money, property and whatever it is that is already connected to what is of all people. Then we wouldn't need, I mean, this marriage would be very dry if we finally did it once. Now it'll probably be too late because this money is already God knows where.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-19-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u258	We decide that the third hearing shall be held at this meeting. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and 44 were voted against and 26. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. As the proposed decision has not been adopted, the third reading assembly of the draft law will be held at the next meeting. On the basis of Rule 137(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 62 for whom there were votes against and one against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 32nd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 18. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 92. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present and 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour and 22 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 13th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Don't forget your masks and good night.
