ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mr Andrej Chuš, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Dr. Milan Brglez by 11 a.m., Mr. Marjan Dolinšek by 12 noon, mag. Alexander Kavčič by 12:00, mag. Branislav Rajić by 15.30, Mr Jan Mahnic by 12 noon, Mr Franz Breznik by 12 noon, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc from 12 till 16:00 and Mr Ivan Škodnik from 12 to 16:00. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. We are moving on to the debate on the Complementary Draft Budget. We will discuss individual parts of the Complementary Draft Budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part is counted General Part, Special Part and, thirdly, Plan of Development Programmes. We are moving on to the consideration of the General Part of the Complementary Draft Budget. Who wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Yesterday we discussed the budget for 2016 and in the United Left we said our reservations on the revenue and expenditure side. On the revenue side, we have repeatedly stressed that the government has not made any effort to increase the revenue to take us into a more fair tax system that would not only burden work and those who have at least, with various indirect taxes such as VAT and excise duties; but which would cover more sums for those who are under-taxed in Slovenia according to European standards. Of course, we are talking about capital taxes, capital taxes and taxes on wealth and property. Our fourth rate of income is so low that it currently captures only 3.4 mills of the best paid in this country; because every year €71 000 of earnings reaches only 3.4 mills of the best paid; while we have proposed that the limit be lowered to €38 000 per year, which would cover about 3% of the paid and would include an additional €15 million in the budget. We further proposed raising the corporate income tax from the current 17% to 20%, which would still be essential under the European average of 22.6% and significantly below the level of neighbouring countries. For example, Austria has 25%, Italy has 27.5%. If only from 17% to 20%, they would still be below all these levels, but in this way they could include an additional 84 million euros in the budget. At the same time, we have proposed a third reform, a smaller correction of the capital income tax, which would cumulatively result in an additional 140 million euros in the budget. This means that we would get money to provide better health care, to provide better social care, to provide different programmes that could help this country to stabilise growth. If we look at the 2017 budget, we find that on the revenue side it is the same or worse since 2016, because although we are talking about one year of space left by the government until 2017, it obviously does not foresee any measures to increase revenue to the budget. It will continue to be committed to strict reduction at the expenditure level; it is said that cuts where unfortunately the most hurt are, if we look at just a few. For example, the Ministry of Labour will lose 65 million in 2017 compared to 2016. Of this, 11 million will be saved on the cash item to compensate the unemployed, 24 million savings on Social assistance. If we look at healthcare, we see that in 2016 health resources will fall by €27 million, and in 2017 they will remain practically at the same level, despite the projected economic growth for both years. If we translate this into percentages of GDP, because health spending is measured as a percentage of GDP, in 2016 and 2017, despite the fact that we are below European levels as regards health financing for the share of GDP, we will lose an additional 0.05% of GDP each year for this purpose. The funding for higher education will fall by EUR 30 million in the following year, and in 2017 it will virtually not increase, which means that there will be no research resources, there will be no resources for development and there will be no resources for the reproduction of the higher education apparatus, where we see that the younger academic staff work primarily in fully overworked forms of employment. These people are practically subject to slave labor in colleges, and for the next 20 years they can only wait for a regular professor to retire, so that they may come to a better life and material position. Besides, our colleges are financially malnourished. The bulk of the burden is borne by just younger researchers, assistants, and so on. The government with these additional cuts in higher education is most burdened by their position. On the other hand, it is worrying that despite the general cuts in the areas I have now described — health, social, higher education — we see an increase in defence spending in 2017. In 2016, funds for membership in international organisations and for international defence cooperation will already be increased. In 2014, it amounted to EUR 12 million, next year and in 2017 it will amount to EUR 18 million. This is a nearly 50% increase, with the majority falling out of NATO membership, which is illogical. On the one hand, we tighten our belts at home, tighten our belts where it really hurts; on the other hand, we increase our resources where it is really unnecessary; or, as we now see in the Middle East, even counterproductive. As the government increases its funds for membership in international organisations and for international military cooperation, while reducing its resources for protection and rescue, it will decrease by 2 million, depending on this year's or cumulative 6%; these moves are somehow worrying, but on the other hand symptomatic, because in both budgets we do not see any vision of how to start the economic growth that has now emerged in this country in the last two years, to build on the medium and long term. But we see a blind austerity policy, which, for the first time, is dangerous, because with the radical decline in investment and social consumption, the decline in the public sector can quickly repeat the 2012 scenario when after two years of growth we slipped back into recession. This time, economists once again warn us that this danger is not behind us, but we can find something fast in it. On the other hand, we see budgets that are extremely socially unfair. As with the 2016 budget in the United Left, we cannot support the 2017 budget for precisely these reasons. There is no determination on the revenue side, no Europeanism, if we can call it that. Even so, the government is not prepared to do so, given the capital taxes on the European Union's tail, in the case of capital income taxes, where we are on the European Union's tail, at least try to get closer to some European average. On the other hand, he is trying to be more papal than the pope at the spending level, where we will consistently follow the fiscal rule, where we will consistently follow the austerity policy that Brussels commands us to do. But if you are inclined in this direction at the expenditure level, it would be at least fair to do the same at the income level and imagine how to establish a fair tax system in Slovenia. The time until 2017 is another year. I hope, at least, that you will correct this error with the balance next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! If we are talking about the 2017 budget, then we can conclude with one sentence that there is even more fog in this budget than there is in the 2016 budget, or this fog is even more dense. Why is she a guest? Since it is easy for the Government to show neither the objectives nor the way to achieve these objectives, nor for 2016; let alone for 2017. If there is no vision and there is no strategy for 2016, what is the strategy and vision for 2017. What does this mean that we should also have a strategy for 2016 and 2017 so that the government should define the targets for 2016 and 2017?Oh, my God! On the expenditure side, we have a budget to finance expenditure across sectors or, if you want, through individual ministries. No ministry has put forward a strategy on what to actually do. Speaking of education, it is likely that education will continue to work on the fact that every year there will be so many and so many graduates. The problem with these graduates is that a lot of them are unemployed. If the school system, the Ministry of Education, does not adapt to the actual needs of the economy, not just the economies – including the non-economics – then we are in a situation where graduates finish their education, come to the so-called labour market and there is no employment for them. All that money going to this school is going to be used in some way ineffectively. And also because the school system is unadapted, we have an annual departure of graduates abroad; over 8 000 in the last period. Here people see no perspective, and from this point of view for 2017 there is nothing different. Similarly to other ministries, such as the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, there are no plans for reorganisation, re-employment, education, short-term adjustment of the education structure, working habits and so on to what is actually employment. And since there are no individual objectives, there are no individual strategies, what we want in fact, and therefore there is no general objective, what we want in particular areas. I do not see in any area any objective, some strategy, what Slovenia wants, what this government wants to achieve. If we look at the economy and look, for example, at the expenditure of the Ministry of Economic Development in the field of entrepreneurship, otherwise we see that expenditure will increase by about 21 million in 2016; but in 2017 these expenditure will fall again, as if entrepreneurship would no longer develop. Looking at the area of investment, we see that these investments have fallen, that the state and government have no idea what to actually invest, even though the projects are on the table. Some projects were frozen already in 2013 and 2014 due to the crisis. These projects should only be defrosted, amended, updated and easily launched. So we have a road from Dravograd to Šentrupert, we have a railway connection to Kopra, but there is no project here that would do not only roads and railways, but also some synergistic effects. As a result, for 2017, there is a much more hazy situation in this government, in terms of objectives, in strategies such as 2016. And this year 2017 is also far away. Why is the government adopting the budget, and why are we talking today about the budget for two years? One reason is that each government - and this budget is the first budget of this government - shows the objectives, strategy and economic policy of how these objectives will be achieved. However, the fact that we only get some accounting document, which has revenues on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, is, of course, not enough. That's absolutely too little. If there is no objective and no vision, then these budgets are irrelevant, because there will be a change in them in one way or another; and on the basis of these changes, the expenditure will be slightly different. What is quite likely, according to the forecast, economic growth is forecast to be 2.3% for 2017 as well. Exports will decrease slightly, which is worrying; on the other hand, imports will increase. The unemployment rate is also expected to decrease slightly according to Umar’s predictions. These economic indicators and these projections may not cause anyone to be concerned, unless we see an increase in indebtedness as well. In 2017, the country is expected to be in debt for more than 4 billion and the principals are expected to pay less than 3 billion, which again means more than a billion. And in other words, this means that we will pay more interest not only in 2017, but also in 2020, 2025 and 2030 and so on. This debt is problematic from this point of view. Not only problematic, but it is also immoral to constantly owe future generations. I think that one strategic objective here, in addition to consolidating public finances for this government, could certainly be to simply stop this net indebtedness of the public sector and, in particular, the state budget. This effort could also be made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but this does not appear to happen. Those sectors, which I think will have an ever-increasing effect, are sectors that will take care of security. Here I am talking about the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, all services – counterintelligence, intelligence, which are undernourished. Or so I'll say, I think they're on the verge of doing their job according to the equipment, given the pay of the people who work here. As we know, today's the government's talks with the police union, for tomorrow it's a predictive statement by the police. I think it's been here for some years, at least two or three years, that cops don't have equipment, that they're safe to protect themselves when they're doing their jobs. Here's the question now, because I don't see any strategy here either, nor at the latest events that are happening, what to do; but everything is leaving as it really is. I think that this government will be forced to redistribute resources for these purposes, for security and in particular for the migration crisis, or to ensure humanitarianism to refugees from these countries. This is where the government could make a greater effort. A greater effort to at least show that it is aware of certain problems in this area, that it is aware of a particular problem and that this will actually happen. Security will become good, much more important than it is today. And for this reason this good will have to be paid and probably much more than is paid today; this will also be shown through the 2017 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. On the expenditure side, as I said before, this budget for 2017 is planned after some inertia. It is planned simply by simply copying or perhaps slightly correcting existing figures according to income, so that a debt is planned at a level that provides a very large sum on the special account held by the State. In short, this stability is ensured. This money is uninterested or at least negatively interested, which means, in other words, that we pay a lot more for the interest that we have to pay to the lenders than we get for that money interest if we deposit that money anywhere. Here is this money at the Ministry of Finance in a treasury account of about 6 billion, all in total for the whole public sector. That money's lying there. It will be used some other year, six months from now, 18 months from now, and so on. This management is not the most intelligent and also the most effective one from this point of view. We can now account in Slovenia if I have already mentioned increased debt and inertia in the area of expenditure without any specific objectives, plans and so on; however, on the revenue side we can expect additional pressure on taxpayers. Here I mean mainly by wanting to show how successful and effective the tax box will be. Whether this will be done as this Financial Administration has already done to bring cars, brands in front of a restaurant, close this place, and so on, they have already been such procedures, especially for television; or not; this is, of course, another issue now. But this will increase some administrative difficulty, some red tape, make it difficult to do business, which is not going to result from this administration and this financial revenue. This will take some time to pull, it will be worth a lot of money; we already said yesterday that only for the EPP was the number of over 90 million to promote the tax office. This will, of course, continue in the future. That's not gonna work here. If there is so much to be spent on tax receipts and if on the other hand it is said that the effect will be between 50 and 100 million, see – it is not actually happening now. Yesterday, the number 93 million was spinning here — just for propaganda, to introduce tax receipts, yesterday afternoon or evening. The enlarged administration is likely to actually take place in this area. Even if we leave all these things now, we can expect what is already announced in 2017 – a higher tax burden, especially for businesses. This means that a number of companies will decide to leave the country. Here various comparisons and even if you have statistics by the European Commission on what tax rates are do not help much. This I can tell you that companies do much more precisely, because they take into account, in addition to tax rates, also reliefs, including solutions in double taxation agreements and so on, where to operate. And what is not only the tax environment, but also the environment that requires administration, bureaucracy, obtaining permits. And here is Slovenia in a bad place and has a bad image of where it actually is. This is why it is planned that the government will do nothing here, leaving some other companies abroad, certainly not the arrival of foreign companies, nor investing domestic capital in Slovenia. We are likely to be a more forgotten country in terms of economics; something is likely to be happening in tourism. Tourists will come, but what's more, actually, not to start new businesses here, to open jobs, especially where there's actually a market niche today. This is done by other countries, including start-ups, where they naturally have a friendly, tax and business environment. The burden itself is likely to increase; such forecasts are; and this will mean the outflow of capital, the outflow of businesses, less jobs. And that's why these predictions, I think, can be too optimistic. We would expect this government to say what it wants in a particular area, what are the objectives, what is the strategy, what is the vision that the budget memorandum looks slightly different from this one. And then don’t say it — because it is read with another document together. I think that the budgetary memorandum is a separate document, irrespective of the documents to be sent to the European Commission. Because of me, it can have 11, 12 pages or 13, there is no problem in this; if there are clearly written goals and at least indicated ways to achieve these goals. To say that it is read with the documents we send to the European Commission is not the best thing to do with the National Assembly, which confirms this when you give us some other documents. This is what you would say — read this book, but you also need to read two other books to begin reading first. Thus, these matters are somewhat underestimating by this government to the National Assembly. Since we have not supported or will not support the 2016 budget for the reasons stated yesterday, we will not support the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Security is the foundation of development. If entrepreneurs do not have a sense of security, if they do not trust the security of the country, they will not invest, they will not work, there will be no human well-being. If people, ordinary citizens and citizens do not have a sense of security, they will keep the money at home, the money will not go around and the economy will stop. The spiral of new stagnation, a new economic recession, is already in motion if anyone doesn't understand it. Not only are the net costs of migration, which are huge – so far we have heard stories about a few thousand, ten thousand euros; the budget for next year provides 123 million euros, which is huge money, if anyone has not noticed, on those stories, how it costs nothing. But in this budget, which we are considering today, there is nothing in the item that is very interesting. Regardless of what this is supposed to mean – this would be very interesting to hear from the one who prepared this budget – I am pointing to the following. The National Assembly adopted, about two months ago, on a proposal from the Commission, which I have proposed – and this proposal for a decision I have proposed – the conclusion that policies need to be changed, that there is a need to devote much more attention and material resources to security than so far. So far, the feeling of security in Slovenia has been remarkable, and real security has also been exceptional. That is why it has always been saved in the area of security, which was all right until the moment that this government, with its wrong policies, pointed out with its own greed that Slovenia is now going through the entire migration flow through it. And what's worse, all that's going on is illegal. That item of 123 million for migration could also be called illegal activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and would be exactly the same content. For everything that is going on in this area is contrary to the rules of the State of Slovenia and is contrary to the rules of the European Union which bind the State of Slovenia. And that will continue, said the Prime Minister of the Government yesterday when he spoke here. You know there are rules on how someone can enter, how much money they have to record, how much money they can have. He said we're not taking anybody's money. That's what you call a green light for all money smugglers. All those who are from, I don't know, Serbia or from anywhere, after all, any mafia of this world can now put money bags in line, declare themselves migrants, all of them having fake documents or not having them, and gladly loads money from one country to another without any restrictions. That's what Mr Cerar said, and by the way – he's not a real ignorant person, but he's a real professor. That's why I'm gonna say it again. It is desperate and unacceptable that one of the items in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia can be peacefully called conscious illegal activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is interesting, by the way, that the same government, which foreign minister was Mr Erjavec, said that we can expect this with migrants for the next 10 years. For 2017, it provides for zero costs. And you want to know why? Even if this is the promise of a different policy, the fundamental question remains why the conclusion has not been reached that more needs to be made for the police, for the military; and much more. Not only is it enough to stop the fallout and to make the most of it, but it is enough to establish some basis that will ensure security now and even in the years ahead, in a changed European environment. For this environment, ladies and gentlemen, has been permanently changed, and this, unfortunately tragically, has been seen a few days ago. She warned that it would take months and months to give it to apparently deaf ears. Nevertheless, this warning about this budget is timely, only if he wants to listen to it. Here the government has not done its part and will not do it. And he doesn't understand that investing in security today is also an investment in development. Once again, if someone does not understand this fundamental logic of the economy, if there is no sense of security and stability in the country, if entrepreneurs do not have confidence in their country and security in it, physical, material and all-round security, they will not invest, there will be no new productive jobs and neither will the revenues be what they could be. Worse still, ladies and gentlemen, which all Slovenian media are silent about than the grave, this is quite interesting, and I have talked about this several times. Some economic sectors are currently clinically dead due to the incompetent government we have. First of all, it's definitely tourism. Ask tourist centers what happened when they showed those burning tents of migrants in Brežice across Europe. The latest cancellations were all reported by then. Tourism is at this point a sector that is terribly poorly spelled out, as well as hospitality and some other industries, so that I do not list them. The revenue foreseen for 2017, with the obvious result from both 2016 and 2017 budgets that the security still thinks it irresponsible to play, is wrong. Predicts are obviously too optimistic or in the background of a silent desire to continue borrowing and further increase the tax burden across all reasonable borders, as it is already now beyond all reasonable limits, so that 6 of those who persist in Slovenia and are still doing business will be pushed out even more. It's gonna take so long for everyone to get out of the country or close their doors. This is obviously the only policy the government has. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. As a result, these two budgets, which are even more obvious in the 2017 budget, are wrongly placed in the sky because they do not reflect the real situation in Slovenia at all, nor the real situation in Europe and do not foresee those measures that would ensure security – and thus, to ensure a stable environment for the economy, for the economy, for entrepreneurship – should be. Here it is forgotten that if it continues as it is, the revenue side will be substantially distorted. Not only will there be no funds from those sectors that are currently clinically dead because of the cuckold government we have to say incompetent. But the problem is there's gonna be redundancies and there's gonna be more people in social security. Unless this is the goal, because I have for some time warned that in Slovenia we have a wonderful recycling of socialism in the governments of the transition left. People choose a transition left, hidden with some new faces or anything; they always get one and get the same back, but they haven't studied them, they've already possessed four times. And then what do these governments do? They make more social cases, development goes back, more people go into social life, doors open to as many migrants as possible, and we have additional costs. And people live worse. And interesting under the influence of the media then they choose the left. Next time, there's more setbacks, more poor people, and they vote for the left. Great, now we have reached the two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, and I wonder if this is the goal of forgetting security and that there will be more poor people. Those who have something will probably pack up and go to another country, at least have a smart normal. [[Incomprehensible]] Then the poor themselves, the social ones themselves, will likely all to the last left vote in good faith that only this one will provide them with some kind of prosperity. And, of course, they'll fuck like long and wide, just like anyone else who's ever voted left-wing. But if that's the goal, then these two are somehow logical and understandable, but they're certainly not worth my support. But I reject such budgets, ladies and gentlemen. These two budgets are not in line with the fact that this National Assembly has already decided. I don't know why the government came across a deaf ear here. I ask myself about the capacity of the departmental ministers, who can't even take advantage of the fact that the National Assembly has confirmed that they need to be given more, that more should be given to the police, that more should be given to the military, that more should be given for civil protection and for all other services, and that, after all, with the intelligence value, which is still important in view of the events we witnessed, the tragedy a few days ago. But it doesn't appear from these budgets. It's like nothing's happened, everything's going back to normal. But the result of this, ladies and gentlemen, will be poor, even worse than the result so far. If things don’t change if people don’t regain confidence in this country — and believe that they have lost it — if people don’t have a sense of security, money will stay at home and more in banks, but most likely just at home or hidden abroad, and it won’t drive the economy. Add to this that some already clinically dead industries will literally die, headed by tourism, if this madness with these illegal migrations does not stop. Then the income will be even lower and the unemployed will be even more. And there's going to be 10,000 people here who this country probably won't know what to do with. And there will be a security problem, a social problem and everything else, because what should have been done a long time ago is not done; or whether it is done so silently that it is not known whether or not it would. As a peasant bride, since the borders would be closed, it would be fine; but let's let them in a little bit more. People of God, that's not how you deal with one country's economy. This leads to disintegration, it leads to the absence of everyone's confidence in this country, people talking about how they're going to organize themselves, and things like that. I don't know where this ruling elite is at this point in time to find out. And he realizes what that means in perspective if things like this happen. Because of the simplest basic things that are not done because of the systematic and planned disregard of the law of this country, it does not respect international rules and consciously violates them long and later, there are fatal irreparable consequences for both security and the economy, for the economy. And against that, the government should do everything in its power. First of all, on the things we are dealing with today, on the budgets; on the budget for next year and on the budget for 2017, much more. But of this, ladies and gentlemen, it's nothing. Without security, there will be no development! This has now been very clearly seen in France; do not think that Slovenia is immune before this. Unfortunately, because of the mistake of sending the entire migrant flow across Slovenia, Slovenia is still exposed. Now the first warnings have come to our attention to prepare for tens of thousands of these people to remain here. And believe me, if they stay, they'll be in a very bad mood. Don't think it's some future labor force, they're going to want to go somewhere else, where they imagined they were going to be in the promised land, just like they were promised. Their goal was not Slovenia and it will not. And they will not be of any kind, nor will they be of any good will, nor will they be of any interest in economic and other security and prosperity in this country. And all of this is due to the wrong policy of this government, which these two budgets, unfortunately, are still concrete. These two budgets are not worth supporting, so, ladies and gentlemen, security is a thing, it is a value that must come first. How is it possible that 123 million for migrants can be such that, without let's say 2 million euros, which you once again rejected as an amendment, for some road up Hotemaže-Britoff, where the most transported children were a kilometer away than on any Slovenian road. But no, that's not going to happen, because this is for the development of our country and for the safety of its people. But it's obviously not in anybody's interest, and it's to the government and the ruling. But if you'll excuse me, then they don't deserve to be where they are. However, if these things are accepted in the form proposed, then the effect on the palm will be even less security, even less people's well-being, the economy will creak in the part where recovery has now begun, the revenues will be reduced, debt will increase, and the tax burden will increase for those who insist on such or other reasons in Slovenia. And that will be fatal and irreparable. I don't know how the government can come before Parliament with such proposals. Not only do some people take this as a rescue; the same people, the same ladies and gentlemen, the same Members, the same Members who voted in favour of giving the security value a greater weight, that it must be a priority, did you support the draft budgets yesterday in your deliberations. And you're going to be seeing them today, too. Now you decide whether one or the other, these two don't work together. Because these budgets are not adequate from a safety point of view, they are not even some sort of hygiene minimum, but they are like living there on a government on another planet. If we want to preserve it, accelerate the development of Slovenia, then things need to be set up differently. It is urgent to allocate funds for migrants to set and protect the border properly in order to prevent any new Schengen — under this or other name — from occurring for God’s will at the Austrian border, as this is being prepared if it is not clear to anyone. Why do you think they build fences now 25 kilometers, but not as good as us, but as high-quality fences, and prepare with military closure all the valleys. If you don't believe me, go take a look, because the movements of the army are already happening. You don't know that, do you? Then the Schengen must be implemented without exception and without a pardon, as the government is obliged to! Nobody's asking for anything illegal. We demand that the law be respected if it is not clear to anyone. That's all we ask. What should be most self-evident in every legal country and because in this case it is the only thing in the economic development interest not only in security, but also in the development interest of the State of Slovenia. All legislation must be respected, for all in the same way, for all with the same watt and without exception. If someone smuggles money, I'm sorry, they know the consequences. They don't have to apply to these people. They have to do this for those people. This leads nowhere else, leading to economic chaos and economic crisis. And those who say they will allow it are therefore liable for compensation, personal, political, and criminal liability.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot agree with the view that the budgets for 2016 and 2017 are prepared without a vision or that they do not respond to the key challenges facing the current situation. Both budgets are set on the revenue side, taking into account that no additional increase in tax burdens is allowed, but that the efficiency of the collection of existing duties needs to be increased. On the expenditure side, both budgets give clear priorities and, through an increase in integral resources in particular, place emphasis on safety, transport safety, health, justice and education. Now, as regards the particulars of the debate so far. As regards the increase in international membership items at the Ministry of Defence, as Mr Mesec has mentioned, it is the government's decision to take over the Ministry of Defence's further payment of membership fees in relation to international peacekeeping missions. These are missions within the United Nations and have nothing to do with NATO membership. In addition, as a result of this high increase, which is reflected in 2016 and continues in 2017. As regards security or security policy, it is necessary to say or repeat, as I said yesterday, that in the area of security we provide the Ministry of the Interior for 2016 and for 2017 an additional EUR 30 million, which in 2017 means an index of 118 and 118% higher spending rights only on the basis of integral resources. At the Ministry of Defence, however, the increase is slightly lower, amounting to 102.66%. Additional funds were also provided for the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, the index or percentage of the increase here is 6.86 in relation to this year's rebalancing. These are increases in expenditure or systemic measures that strengthen the budgets of the three key sources responsible for security. However, the issue of migration issues is dealt with in a completely separate way. In view of the current developments and the currently identified costs, we have found or have estimated that, given the costs incurred so far in Slovenia and the comparable costs in other countries, if we receive them in the coming year or if Slovenia passes in the coming year between 8 and 9 000 refugees or migrants, this is linked to the cost of some 123 million euros. We are aware that this assessment is quite uncertain and is linked to many strangers. Moreover, for 2017, and simply for 2017, the assessment for these specific costs of the migration crisis is so uncertain that it could not be reported at this time. As a result, we did not foresee any changes in the supplementary budget proposal in 2017. In doing so, we also take into account the usual procedure for adopting or modifying budgetary documents, where it is envisaged to be submitted to the National Assembly in the coming year, i.e. in September, an amended draft budget, where this particular cost can also be further justified or foreseen with greater certainty. It will also not be too much to stress that this is a specific cost, especially the costs associated with migrants who only pass through Slovenia and can be considered as exceptional or unique events. Even when assessing the adequacy of Slovenian budgetary planning and budget implementation or, if you want, the adequacy of public financial consolidation by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, these costs are treated separately or separately. For this reason, we must ensure that these costs are separately shown in the budget in preparation and implementation and also that these spending rights must not be used for other purposes. It is important that we have this option included in the 2016 budget because it allows us to respond quickly and normally to the changed circumstances. How quickly things are changing in this area, and you can see for yourself when we look back, only in the last month. A few more words relating to borrowing in 2017. The debt foreseen in the C balance sheet of the draft budget for 2017 shall be attributed to the deficit A balance sheet, the deficit B balance sheet and the repayment of principals due in 2017. In particular, as the A deficit is steadily decreasing and cannot be eliminated immediately and fully, additional debt to cover this deficit will continue to be needed during this consolidation period, which is currently foreseen to include 2019. However, as regards the state of the assets in the account, it is necessary to say that during the period of crisis Slovenia has created a greater difference in the liquidity reserve, which is placed on various accounts in accordance with the relevant acts or investment policy; in order to ensure certain stability or security of the financing of the state budget and to ensure security in the payment of principals. As we said yesterday at the 2016 budget reading, in 2016 the funds in the accounts are falling by 2 billion and a half; this is why the debt is so lower in 2016. However, the extent of the necessary resources in the account will be assessed in the light of the situation. It should also be said that part of these assets is located with Banka Slovenije, which in fact in the current ratios means negative interest rates. However, the bulk is invested in business banks in line with the policy we have in this area at the state treasury. Therefore, it does not claim that the whole amount is uninterested or that the whole amount bears only negative interest. So much for this circle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we expected both budgets to provide sufficient funding for areas of vital importance for Slovenia and its inhabitants. These areas are definitely social protection, healthcare, education, culture and so on. In these areas, so far the greatest damage has been caused by belt tightening and austerity policy. Unfortunately, these two budgets for 2016 and 2017 have not met our expectations. The government continues to save on the weak and to give forgiveness to the richest. In this way it creates an even greater gap between the poor and the rich. While robust economic growth is foreseen in 2017, many austerity measures will continue in 2016. It is totally unacceptable that the 2017 budget does not bring any steps forward, in fact we are moving back. The government will save again on social threats, save on health care, save on the expense of higher education, culture and so on. The government has stated in the budget documents that health, education and development priorities will be priorities. In the same breath, it provides less resources to these areas in 2016 and 2017 than it does this year. It also stated that the budget would ensure a sufficient level of justice and social inclusion. I ask myself, since when does fairness mean that instead of capital and the rich, you save on the poorest, and that you collect income from consumption taxes that disproportionately affect those people with under-average low incomes. I wonder how you can think that social inclusion means living with social assistance, which is 300 euros below the statistical threshold of poverty. This budget can be socially fair and inclusive in your neoliberal world, but it is by no means fair and socially inclusive in the world of those on whose behalf you rule and on whose behalf we sit here. That is why we will not support this budget in the United Left in any way, but not because Minister Maramor gave us this document, went and instructed the coalition not to support any of the opposition's amendments. However, that we do not sit here completely without meaning, let us be here for the benefit of the citizens who will thus hear our proposals and decide for themselves what kind of deaf ears are listening to us here and what arrogance of the coalition we run into. In the United Left we proposed several amendments, yesterday I presented an amendment for culture, preservation of cultural heritage and for art programs. Let me also introduce to you the amendment concerning agriculture, which is a strategic sector and which could further increase the revenue side of this budget, if of course we were to work more planned and rationally. With the amendment, we are increasing resources on the sub-programme Climate change adaptation by one million euros to be taken by the Ministry of Finance for Financial Stability and the payment of funds to the budget of the European Union. Why? Because climate change is our priority. We're talking about a rise in food self-sustainment, about an action Let's eat Slovenian. But over and over again, climate change is destroying a very large part of our crop. By adopting this amendment, we would provide the means to draw up a more ambitious programme to change and improve the methods of farming that we now have. I am talking about a new start where the measures are not being implemented at the moment. Only subsidisation of insurance for crop damage shall be carried out. And with these subsidies, we are actually deterring farmers to adapt the choice of culture or method of production and to permanently protect agricultural areas, for example through cross-border networks. If we look at the Ministry of Agriculture's website, we see that there was some kind of programme in 2010 and 2011, some kind of strategy for adapting Slovenian agriculture to climate change. An action plan was drawn up, but these activities were limited only to 2010 and 2011 as if climate change had ceased at that time. No, respectable and respected, climate change was only beginning very well at that time. The ministry says it's going to blow up now, but the department's team is about the same today, and the minister is the same. I wonder what they have done for the last four years since the end of this action plan. In Slovenia we have top experts in this field. The need for adjustments is enormous. On average, we have enough rainfall, but they are completely disproportionately distributed; on one side we have power, then we have droughts. Smart measures could place these rainfalls in such a way that our crops are preserved. We also need to change cultures. A typical example of such a culture is corn. Onward, every summer we look at dry corn fields, then farmers get paid for this compensation, and they do not need to sow anything more suitable. They will still sow corn on the sandy soil, confident that they will not be harmed, for if the whole crop is destroyed, they will receive subsidies for destruction. Agriculture will not go any further in this way. Something needs to be changed here and action needs to be taken quickly. We should have acted four or five years ago. Climate change is a constant, and it is not a surprise, as if to surprise the winter service of the snow in mid-December. I therefore suggest that you confirm our proposal for an amendment to the Climate Change Adjustment Sub-programme because it is necessary for our survival, for the survival of our agriculture and for our food self-sustainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Since you'd like to discuss this further, I'd like to ask you to apply. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! It must be difficult for the constituents or proponents of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017; also because we do not really know which direction we want to go. If we're lucky at sea with the wind, we'll come to a good destination; if you're not lucky, we'll come to a lost place. Why am I talking about this, and why am I talking like that? Since we still do not have the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia for the period 2014-2020. And this, in my understanding, should certainly also be the basis for the composition of our country's budgets for 2016 and 2017. For the period 2014-2020, practically two years of this period have passed. I don't know when we're going to adopt this strategy. Maybe in 2020? So much for an introduction, maybe. In my debate, however, I will focus on perhaps a somewhat difficult topic, namely the dynamics of structural efforts, the dynamics of structural adjustment, the correction of the structural deficit. In other words, I will say how we enforce constitutional changes or how we enforce the Law on Fiscal Rule in the National Assembly with two-thirds of the votes of Members. This is of paramount importance, and I also said to the Committee on Finance that, by implementing the Fiscal Rule Act, we have entered a new period of adoption of state budgets. I was critical on the committee because there was not really a single paragraph on structural deficit, on structural effort, on the dynamics of structural efforts by 2020 in budget materials, at least in those initial ones. Well, that would be necessary. The Public Finance Supervisory Commission also responded to this issue and the Ministry of Finance replied later. Colleagues and colleagues, this time we are in a critical phase, when the Fiscal Rule Act is in force, but we do not have an independent institution, which we have named in the law, a fiscal council to verify that the commitments given are in line with the law adopted. And precisely because there is no independent information yet, it is up to us Members of the National Assembly to assume an even greater responsibility, which we can bear only if we have more and no less information. The Government and the Ministry of Finance should therefore, in the budget documents, provide us Members with a truly complete set of information on the basis of which Members could verify the compliance of the budget documents submitted with the applicable rules, especially with the fiscal rule adopted in the summer. Although the Fiscal Rule Act has not yet been implemented in the main provision, we are already bound by its transitional provisions. In particular, I would like to draw attention to Article 15, which speaks of the implementation of medium-term balance over the period of approximation to the medium-term fiscal objective. And now for dynamics. The dynamics of structural adjustment are set out in Article 5 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011. Let me simplify what the summary is. The next is very important for us Members. It is important that for Member States whose debt level exceeds 60% of the gross social product – and Slovenia is among these countries, we know that we are in charge of more than 80% of GDP – or for Member States with a strong risk of overall debt sustainability, the Council and the Commission are examining whether the annual improvement in the cyclically adjusted budget balance with single and other temporary measures eliminated is higher than 0.5% of GDP. More than 0,5 % of GDP. The Council and the Commission shall take into account in the assessment whether adaptation efforts are greater in times of good economic conditions, while efforts in times of bad economic conditions may be smaller. And if we now look at the document of the Stability Programme that the Slovenian Government sent to the Commission this spring, and look at the dynamics of structural effort or fiscal effort if you want; this is next. First of all, the structural deficit of Slovenia. This year, it is expected to amount to 2.2% of GDP; for the following year, 1.6% of GDP is a structural effort of 0.6%. The same structural effort would also be expected for 2017. But there is a structural deficit of 1.3%, or more precisely 1.34% of GDP. So the structural effort is not 0.6%, and here's the problem, here I see the problem. In 2017, the structural deficit should be 1% of GDP, followed by a structural effort of 0.6%. A demanding, dry debate may be, but if we don't really stick to this dynamic, then, colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if we did the right thing when we adopted the Fiscal Rule Act. I have confirmed it because I expect the structural effort as set out in the Regulation as set out in the Fiscal Rule Act; not as set out in the Stability Programme. And here's the key question. If we do not stick to our solutions, the provisions that the National Assembly has adopted, we are not doing well. A review of the amounts tells us that in order to eliminate the circus of the 850-million-dollar structural deficit, that is 2.2% of the 38 billion GDP, we should make a 230-million-dollar structural adjustment in a few years each year. The fiscal effort of 0.6% of GDP is nominally around €220.230 million. Let's not forget, structural adjustments are about a permanent reduction in the deficit, so cycle effects are not affected by its reduction. It is essential that we adhere strictly to the Fiscal Rule Act, or we, colleagues and colleagues, will talk for many years about not providing sufficient funding to our municipalities. As we see, we owe them some EUR 260 million in some way if we strictly adhere to the Law on Community Financing and the methodology by which the average is calculated; we are talking about such numbers for municipalities. 260 million is the difference between 522 and 652, which is the result of the calculation of the average according to the methodology. That is why we have also tabled an amendment which would increase the funding for the financial settlement of municipalities by €60 million, because in 2017 this item is simply empty. And that's the problem. This is a major problem due to the uneven, incompatible development of Slovenia. Scissors are increasingly opening up and we have a less developed periphery and an increasingly developed center. Do we just want a center in this country?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you, Chairman. Here we are again, at the budget of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, who is not here today. I don't think he was even a minute here to present his financial structure for 2017. Let me remind you that, while Mr Mumorr's Minister of Finance is not out of the question, he has taken additional funds from the National Assembly for 2017. For 2016, it takes away €600,000, and for 2017 it takes up additional funds. This is obviously normal for coalitions to be taken away from the highest representatives of the people, i.e. only those who have been directly elected. That is why we do not need a finance minister to come here and present this or at least tell us why he is doing this. We have heard several times yesterday from the President of the Government that this country is humanitarian, humane and so on. Now let us see how this country is humane and humanitarian to citizens. First, let's see how humanitarian it is to the next generation. In the draft budget for 2017, Mramor intends to be in charge of an additional four billion. For an additional four billion he intends to burden our children, future generations, because they will repay. And if we move forward with this budget. Consider the example of Desus, retired. According to 2015, pension benefits are available at 8 % less than in 2015. No problem, probably, because we'll squeeze because we're humanitarian and human. And if we continue to travel a little further through this budget prepared by Mr. Maramor, we will reach the Ministry of Health, where 20% of the funds are budgeted in 2017. For secondary and tertiary investment, we are as much as 37% less human and humanitarian; and as we have heard, health is one of the priorities of this government. And if we move on, the same story is in high school. Higher education has less than €30 million, and in this respect I hear no further excitement from the coalition. We have heard that education is one of the three priorities of this budget. And, like, sports and recreation. Today, you will all be cheering for our football team, and this government is taking 75% of the funds according to the planned funds or the 2015 realisation. From 37 million to 9.9 million euros. Of course, it is the humanitarian and humane action of this government. And then forward by looking at investments in infrastructure. According to 2015, rail infrastructure is halved by half for 2017. Integrated public passenger transport system, i.e. investment in green transport, in the use of public transport – 20% less than in 2015. Investment maintenance and construction of state roads; we know where they are – 20% less, of course, a humane and humanitarian decision. Environmental protection and environmental infrastructure; according to 2015, this government will allocate only one fifth of the funds for 2017; and in waste management, 3% according to 2015. You can imagine 97% of waste management resources will be earmarked for some other purpose. Citizens can take it or what?Oh, my God! They can suffer for 2016, they can suffer for 2017. And if we go on, we talk about the importance of promoting the country; the foreign ministry – an additional 3 million less. Even now, according to the Foreign Minister, the situation in the budget is at the end of the line. You are taking an additional three million for 2017. In the area of representation of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, i.e. the focus of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you take 12% of the funds. I don't know how you imagine?Oh, my God! Are you counting on migrants who will go through Slovenia to represent Slovenia abroad?Oh, my God! And that's why at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you're taking funds from this key item. Of course, there are some winners on the other hand, and this must be acknowledged. Like general public services and joint administrative services. There are 25% more resources here. See also this humanitarian gesture, spatial and other conditions for the work of state authorities, here you have doubled the funds. Nice, nice. What better offices will be, I don't know, better, more comfortable desks for the work of the state authorities?Oh, my God! That's what's absolutely necessary. Thus, not the promotion of Slovenia abroad, but the spatial and other conditions for the work of the state authorities; while giving public servants 148 additional millions and a key educational measure at the Ministry of Justice – from 51 million to 70 million for prisons. Sure, right. Those who do not obey must go to prison, though — watching our judiciary work — would sooner say that due to procedural errors all things fall there. Unless you're going to be those independent entrepreneurs who, due to a bad internet connection, won't be able to send that bill to the tax office, with 200 cops -- no, because they're not going to be taken to jail on the border -- I don't know, with Western-style tax inspectors and TV cameras for those 200 Euros. Then they'll obviously lock you up. I can't do anything. I mentioned this yesterday. I don't agree that, with the blood count of the next two years, there's no finance minister between us. And it seems to me that we are relatively united in this debate in the opposition; and it seems to me that we are stressing the right things no matter which way we come from. For the first time in a year and a half, what I'm here, I can sign everything my colleague from the United Left used to explain. Everything. She's holding it just like she said. But the Minister of Finance is not here to explain; the coalition is silent. However, the Coalition will follow the instructions of the Minister of Finance, which it takes to ensure that they do not support any amendment; and with this budget document they will design Slovenians for the next two years. As I said, an article with a very significant title came — Marble is destroying the middle class. And even the subtitle more, which I think is quite well summed up, but these are not my words – Marble is no longer the most important part of the government; it is an accounting fikus; Strukl's Santa Claus. This budget and the measures prepared by the Minister of Finance are in fact living proof of the words written in one of the press comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor. Matthew the Vrančnik Erman; here you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much. With regard to the last debate, I would like to draw attention to a few facts. Firstly, the debt in 2014 is 4 billion gross, but due to the repayment of 2.9 billion debt or principal, it means that the debt does not increase by 4 billion; it is a billion 100. Secondly, the reduction in pension transfers is not due to the reduction of pension rights, but is due to the plan, the financial plan of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, which shows higher revenues over the next two years and therefore needs less transfer from the state budget. Thirdly, investment investments in health are declining due to a change in the direction of European funds according to the old perspective in the new perspective. However, for health care, 34.90 % of the funding is allocated to the integrated funds for 2017 more than in 2015. In the field of education, 4.93 % of the funding is provided only from integrated resources than in 2015. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, too, the dynamics are similar or even higher – 23.4% more integrated resources, with the Ministry of Environment and Space planning also a number of dedicated funds, which are virtually all for investment investments. The increase in public administration positions in the area of common services and spatial conditions for the work of public authorities is not due to an increase in funds in the global area; it is the result of centralisation of the management of the real estate of the country used to carry out the work of individual national authorities. In any event, neither the 2016 budget nor the 2017 budget, without additional indebtedness, cannot fully replace the funds allocated in the old financial perspective for actions in specific areas; as the guidelines for the use of the new financial perspective, as I mentioned yesterday, differ from the old ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Excuse me, excuse me. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe it was not intentional, but I would really ask the distinguished Secretary of State to explain to us what will be the dynamics of reducing the structural deficit. Will it actually be the one we wrote down and sent to Brussels in the Stability Programme document; will it be different? Will fiscal effort be in line with the Fiscal Rule Act? Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thanks again. The government has written in its budget documents that its priorities are health, education and development. In practice, though, she did what?Oh, my God! Yes, in the same breath, it provided precisely these areas in 2016 and 2017 less funds than in this year. At the same time, the government has also written down that the budget will ensure a sufficient level of justice and social inclusion. However, the material truth of this budget is that on the expenditure side it is extremely socially unfair; on the income side it does nothing in the direction of greater equality in our society it repeats the same error as it already shows in expenditure, i.e. a great degree of social injustice. And that is, of course, something that the Socialists, the United Left and its Members cannot possibly sign. The budget is built on the ideological foundations of neoliberalism, neoliberal capitalism, which is why the opposition with the six Members, unfortunately, cannot fix and correct it as we would like. But we can try to ease him in his delusions and repair him at least somewhere on the slopes, at the most socially exposed points. That is why we have prepared a socialist budget alternative. A key part of this alternative is higher taxation of capital and high income. With amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, we have proposed measures to increase revenue. And these are measures that are not terribly complicated, do not require a lot of administrative acrobatics; they are immediate and are maximum social justice. These measures, which we propose, could be divided into three sets. First of all, the return of the corporate tax rate from 17% to 20%, which is completely normal and even below the European average. First. We are proposing to reduce the threshold of the fourth income class in a way that will not only cover the 3.4 proms of the richest or most paid people in our society, because this is very little, it is 3,000 people; but we are proposing to capture 3% of those who are best paid in our society. Let me conclude this presentation with a higher taxation of the income of natural persons from capital, i.e. interest, dividends and capital gains. That's also what we're proposing to settle. The proposed measures would lead to an additional €140 million in the budget, without depriving anyone of anything at the expense of this account; or without depriving anyone of anything other than just for the sake of their luxury. These short-term measures alone could significantly improve the situation of people living in absolute poverty. Here I am talking about 60,000 recipients of cash social assistance and a security allowance. I am also talking about 10,000 other people who are in great social distress; however, because of the under-priced censorship, they are not entitled to any social stigma and social security to help our society. The Socialists have no illusions that our proposals will be heard in this political constellation. In order for the coalition to agree to such proposals at this point, even if they represent only a minimum plant, it is rather utopian; for the simple reason that what we are proposing at this point would still be less than what we had in 2006, when the first Janša government carried out the first major tax burden of high wages and profits. Groups to which the government and the government coalition rely to preserve and build their power oppose such proposals; even if they are so minimal as to intervene in their privileges, not in their rights; in their income privileges in this society. If we have a government and a government coalition that relies on these social groups, it will, of course, oppose these proposals that we are proposing in the United Left, even though they are so reasonable and minimalist. What is essential to our debate on the budget is this. As long as the budgets are based on some neoliberal ideology – and the budget for 2017 is certainly based on neoliberal ideology – there will always be insufficient resources within it to establish quality health care, social protection, to ensure decent survival for our public servants. It will always be in such a political constellation as a priority for the interest of the upper middle classes or upper classes; however, those who really suffer in this society will never come first and those who really need some budgetary measures. One of the most visible representatives at this time, who advocates such a doctrine in practice, is the Finance Minister, Mr Dusan Maramor. At the previous meeting of Mr Marble, I asked why not 16 million Euros that we obtain by maintaining the fourth income class, which we are proposing is why we would not spend these funds to raise social assistance. 16 million euros is enough to raise social assistance to 308 euros, says 80% of the amount that is officially considered a minimum. This amount was already set as a compromise at the Ministry of Labour in 2009, since the minimum wage was only EUR 460 net at the time. The Minister then replied, this was a bad month ago to make a big mistake, because this would break the ratio to the minimum wage and maintain the income of 3.4 miles of the best-paid people in this country. This was his answer, which I must quote, listen well: "These 16 million address the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy where we are least competitive; and this is for the relatively most productive, good, smart and educated employees." These statements speak for themselves. Such statements, such ideological postulates, are a typical example of neoliberalism. The inequality is treated in this statement by Minister Marble as some natural state; according to him, not the ones most privileged are automatically paid, but the ones that are the best. And those who don't even have a salary, by this same logic, are obviously the least productive, the dumbest, the least decent in our society. And of course, it is normal for them to earn some minimum income or even more — to lose it. This, Your Honor, is not the record of any extreme in the forums, social networks or at some semi-incognito expositions; these are the official statements of the ministers to whom you, today, have left the political groups gathered here to manage fiscal policy in our country. And that is the logic behind which this budget is also built, which we are deciding today, which is what we are talking about here today. I am not saying all of this by chance as some kind of stark degression, because these proposals and excuses from the government, on the coalition side, are not a matter of chance; they are a key element of the ruling ideology that reflects and reflects the relationship of power in this society. And the truth is loving — in this society only the interests of the rich and the strong, even though it is a distinct minority. This also affects the revenue side of the budget. The biggest manipulation in cheering the ideological wheel of neoliberalism is that no one asks what the effect of such measures on public finances will be; although such statements by ministers are being heard on behalf of public finances. What helps a worker with a minimum wage if he receives an additional EUR 50 if, at the same time, savings policies cut off his child's allowance or lowers his allowance?Oh, my God! And what helps a worker with a minimum wage to free up some 50 euros when in the same breath she has to pay for commercial health insurance because it simply will not be the turn of the public system?Oh, my God! If she wants to survive, she'll have to run into a commercialized health system. What helps the middle class a few percent higher wages if, at the same time, there will be significantly fewer jobs in the public sector, which is the material basis of the vast majority of the Slovenian middle class. We collect almost four times as much with income tax as with companies. You know, this is abnormal, this is also completely abnormal for the European situation. With such tax deficits and shortfalls, it is clear that if the budget is to be kept up, we must cut into the public sector. This is a very big problem, which is also the stated goal of these governments. The National Reform Programme says very well that the country's share of GDP will decrease to 41.4% after income or on the expenditure side to 42.45%. Averages in the European Union are higher than 45% of GDP, and in developed countries in general over 50%. Once we get closer to this 40% limit, it is very difficult to talk about the social state and then there are other forms of inequality in society, and citizens are not only becoming uneven in income and property, but also in real access to education, health and dignity. And the budget for 2017 also measures precisely at the construction of inequalities, so I cannot support it as a socialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I also regret that there is no Minister of Finance present with us. He wasn't here yesterday. He's not here today. We accept the two most important documents for the country. Today we are talking about the 2017 budget without the presence of the Minister of Finance. We can explain one thing to each other. The Minister of Finance is not here because he does not trust the budget he has proposed. Or he doesn't want to come here and explain things. I think there are very few European parliaments where Parliament adopts the budget and there is no Minister for Finance present. And that this practice of this coalition and the government of Mira Cerar repeats itself. I don't know what the reasons are, Mr. Secretary of State. Where is the Minister of Finance today, where is the Minister of Finance? Dear coalition, I don't know why you don't press on the Minister of Finance to be present at this budget either. I personally explain to myself that the Minister of Finance is not here because he does not believe in this budget himself and is afraid to come before the National Assembly. On the other hand, I think we listened to a rather constructive debate yesterday in the 2016 budget. I expect the same today in the budget for 2017. I am particularly concerned by the debate by the coalition, the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus, because – as already Parliamentary colleague Horvat said – the budget of the Republic of Slovenia does not contain the budget of the coalition or the government of Mir Cerar. 45 amendments have been tabled, 45 amendments! In previous mandates, there were significantly more of them, stronger than 100. This means that the opposition has taken this seriously and that we have tabled the life amendments – amendments that could be included in this system. But no – the voting machine of this coalition, the government of Mira Cerar, the parties of the modern centre, the Social Democrats and Desus, said "no" to the opposition. We will not support any of your amendments. At the presentation itself, when the Minister for Finance was present, his first words were – I appeal to the coalition MPs not to accept any amendments. Why, Madam Secretary of State, why such an attitude? And don't accept any of the coalition's amendments. At least explain why. I believe that certain items in the budget may have been misplaced and- to take part of the funds where they are not supposed to go. Here I think mainly about paying interest and possibly certain membership fees. However, Madam Secretary of State, why don't you provide funds for the State Assembly investigative committee? Why don't you increase the funds to build and rebuild roads? There are very few of these things. You can't give 10 000 euros for one thing here, but you will have the opportunity to have the government translate one billion euros on its own; one billion euros from the left to the right. But you can't put one amendment in here for 10 or 150,000 euros. But you're going to operate with one billion, approximately. But essentially more than 100 million euros, you'll be translating from left to right pocket. But you can't support one of our amendments here. Dear coalition, you made it clear to tell Slovenia – under your government in 2016 and 2017, two lost years. At the very least, this budget has been made targeted and developmental, because it should be, because it should give added weight mainly to the economy and the real sector. The economy and the real sector have been burdened for several years here in Slovenia. When can we expect, respected, to have the budget targeted, development-oriented and friendly to the real sector and the economy? New elections and a new government. Under this government, it is clear that you do not accept these matters, that you are burdening the economy and burdening citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In an interesting way, you have embarked on the consolidation of public finances. In consolidating public finances, the Government of Mira Cerar and the coalition of the Modern Centre, Social Democrats and Desus will go with additional indebtedness, with additional tax burdens and other burdens on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy. Such a way of Slovenia will not bring about development or a higher standard of living. And probably also in 2016 and 2017, we can expect companies operating in Slovenia today to decide to move abroad. Interesting are the discussions by the United Left, which says that capital in Slovenia is substantially undertaxed, that we have too low tax rates; on the other hand, we can probably read every month in Slovenian media how one of the multinationals decided to leave Slovenia and their headquarters moved to Zagreb, Belgrade, Budapest or Bratislava. The last case is Hewlett-Packard. Respected and respected, the reasons are clear — too much administrative burden, too long decision-making to obtain divergent consensus, too high taxation and an unfavourable business environment. These are well-paid jobs; this is not what the media are writing about. You prefer to deal with those large systems, especially systems, where you decide quickly to give a state guarantee or state aid. You're predicting a billion state guarantees, Your Honorable Secretary of State. A billion government guarantees! What will these guarantees be for, and will there be some subsidies again?Oh, my God! And we're going to throw billions and millions into companies that should have been in the dump a long time ago, because it would have been a bigger effect than that. And we save all kinds of Poles, all kinds of Adrias, and I don't know what kind of company. And who benefits from these companies — various advisers, various advisory agencies, various legal offices. On the other hand, DUTB sends well-standing companies into illegal bankruptcy that they must then refer to the Constitutional Court. EUR 200 million will be foreseen for the restructuring of Slovenian companies. I want names and numbers, respectable secretary of state. Which companies will you restructure again with the taxpayer's money, with 200 million; and what do you expect from this? Take a look at the history of the restructuring of Slovenian companies. A bag with no bottom or a bag that has a hole below; some people serve a great deal under this hole. You made a deal with the union. When are you going to start talking to businessmen and small businesses? When? Why are trade unions and public administration always a priority over the real sector and the economy? Respectable coalition, public administration lives at the expense of the economy. I can't say we don't need public administration, but the public administration and all of us sitting here get paid at the expense of the economy. We get wages on the economy! If the economy dies, neither will this national council. He won't, because there won't be any pay. Respected coalition, this budget has been drawn up with little courage in view of the macroeconomic environment and macroeconomic data, which are significantly more favourable than they were in the preparation of the 2013 budget, 2014. And you didn't put any development strategies in there. Not one. And you are not preparing any reform that would be crucial to make one conversion. You are not doing anything on health reform; you are doing tax reform, which we can read in all the media is going to be a disaster. Respected coalition, tax reform cannot be a way of raising taxes and making additional burdens. In today's Finances, we can read how marble will destroy the middle class. High school, which is what you're most committed to. But you are successful in human resources, and we need to tell you this, and you have a human resources policy; especially in putting your people up. And this practice, the bad practice of the previous governments, continues under the mandate of Mir Cerar. Why don't you do something to increase your budget revenue?Oh, my God! Revenues in the budget with some incentive measures for the economy, because revenue can only be given to the economy; it cannot be given to the public sector. The public sector has to be a support. Tax debt – €1.4 billion. What are you gonna do? If we add up more than one billion interest here, and if we add it up, we're almost half the annual revenue that the budget has. 1.4 billion euros of unpaid tax. How about you put a tenth of that in your plan to pick it up? I wonder if Furs, a respected secretary of state, has any plans for this tax debt? Or should someone give a command if today's tax debt is 1.4 billion; at the end of 2017 this tax debt must be, I don't know, one billion. Do they have such instructions, or do they have such goals? And if this goal is not achieved, will anyone be responsible for it, will anyone be resolved, or will make a resignation statement? 1.4 billion euros. I don't get it here. In what way could such a high tax debt have occurred? On the other hand, you cannot find 150 000 euros or 1 million, 2 million to build one road that is urgently needed. You can't build a new bridge in Medna. And that's what you do, respectable, economic damage. Logistics is important today. Logistics is an important factor in competitiveness today. And in this way, and with this work shown by the government of Mira Cerar, the Slovenian economy is losing its competitiveness. He loses his competitiveness every day. Raise taxes and debt – that's the only thing you know; the easiest. Close yourself to the office and say - we will put revenue into the budget by increasing taxes or making additional burdens. The withdrawal of the state from the economy. You're gonna follow this, aren't you? I don't think so because you've announced 200 million euros for restructuring. You've changed the main mission of a weak bank. Instead of selling claims, you have now gone through the amendment of the law so that its main mission will now be restructured. Now we're gonna get a new state holding company. We're gonna have two. Once again, you won't know what the left hand is doing or what the right hand is doing. It's important that you scramble, that you have your boards of directors, that you have your own oversight councils, and that you have people who can take care of something else. In this way, Slovenia is not promising anything good. The 2017 budget, which we have before us, as I have already mentioned, is not developmental, is not targeted. I do not think that Slovenia will gain competition in the light of all the last events that we have witnessed both in Europe and around the world. However, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can also legitimately fight for security, because the security and the funds earmarked for this segment are underestimating for the military, police and civil protection. And the events we have witnessed in recent days suggest that the government and this coalition should give significantly more time and significantly more resources to this segment as well. Look at the equipment available to the Slovenian police and the Slovenian army; and you will understand everything. There is likely to be a high risk of accidents, disturbances at these borders, or migration centres. And how the police and the Slovenian military can protect the interest of Slovenia and provide security for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia if they do not have the basic equipment to do so. I do not think that we are far from the day that there will be major problems at these points in Slovenia. Dear coalition, it is time to support some amendment proposed by the opposition parties in the vote. There's still time. You can sit down, you can discuss it with the Ministry of Finance, but I think the solution is also to try to push the government with a positive direction. It's just that the devil took a joke and something has to be done here. Today's two informations are worrying. The Kremlin officially confirmed that the crash of an aircraft on Egypt was the product of terrorist acts. Official confirmation of the Kremlin. Events in Paris on Friday. Today, we can read that security services have intercepted an email that directly indicates that an attack on the Swedish government, the Swedish Parliament and the Swedish President is to be prepared. I think we can be concerned about these events. The only thing about this defense is that we have the resources that will be able to do this right; but without the money, it cannot be here. A respected coalition, a respected government, when will you go into a change in asylum policy? Most European countries have responded to the latest developments with a change in asylum policy. Dear Secretary of State, I expect you to tell us what financial ratings or financial costs are or are justified by those requiring asylum in Slovenia; at monthly and annual level. I think we will come to the realization that asylum seekers are entitled to higher funds, such as minimum wage in Slovenia or an average pension. There's something really wrong here. All well and good, but I'm personally of the opinion that the first thing to do is to take care of our people. How will you justify in front of people that someone who has worked for 30, 35 years is today receiving less monthly income than someone who demands asylum in Slovenia?Oh, my God! How will you request that? Are these costs mentioned in the 123 million budget even realistic in the light of the latest events we are witnessing to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u23	The word has magic. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. First, I would like to answer Mr Horvat's question regarding the structural effort for 2017. The budget is prepared in accordance with the Stability Programme and structural effort, as reflected in the draft budget for 2017, is 0.3% of GDP. However, this structural effort will continue to change or adjust. The reason why this is so has already been explained by the Minister in his opening act; let me repeat it again. In order to calculate the structural balance, the economic situation of the business cycle must first be determined by establishing the cyclical component in the balance of the State sector. The economic situation in the business cycle is calculated according to the value of the potential gross domestic product. This 2017 assessment is currently made from our side and takes into account the data available to us and the macroeconomic assessments of Umar, the budget for 2017 is in line with the Fiscal Rule Act. However, the European Union will only fix the production gap for 2017, which means that it will only be possible to compare the Slovenian and European assessments with each other in the coming year. In short, in summary, our assessment is that the budget for 2016 and also the budget for 2017 are in line with the Fiscal Rule Act. The second point, as regards the absence of the Minister of Finance, is that today the visit of the International Monetary Fund mission is beginning and the Minister must participate in these introductory talks, so he cannot be present at today's consideration of this item. As far as guarantees are concerned, it is not the guarantees linked to State aid measures, but rather the general guarantee quota that the State can provide in a given year. The second is the question of helping businesses in difficulty, which is within the competence of the Ministry of the Economy and for which the Ministry of Economy has provided other funds either in the form of subsidies or in the form of favourable reimbursements. As regards the payment of the tax debt, if you look at the trend in the formation of the tax debt, you will find that the tax debt has increased dramatically during the periods of the economic crisis and is largely linked to bankruptcy or forced settlement by many companies. The active debt of this billion 400 is around 600, 700 million; the remainder is conditionally recoverable debt, i.e. debt reported in bankruptcy proceedings or other insolvency proceedings and recovered in accordance with insolvency law. In view of the changes in insolvency, these procedures have accelerated rapidly this year, which means that the final decision on tax debt in these insolvency proceedings is being made more quickly. In addition, the law governing insolvency proceedings brought another novelty last year, namely the preventive business and financial restructuring of companies for which companies whose bankruptcy or enforcement proceedings are not yet under way can be decided; it threatens them. In cooperation with all creditors, they shall find the most appropriate way to restructure the company, maintain jobs and sustain the individual activity. In order to enable the State to participate actively in such procedures, or also to enable the State to participate actively in such procedures where it would be assessed that it is appropriate to cooperate in this way, funds are provided to enable recapitalisation. Here we are talking about companies where the country has a huge debt to them, we are talking about companies with claims that DUTB is also dealing with. It is right that actors that have a decisive impact on the restructuring of companies in difficulty are DUTB, to a certain extent SDH and the country, are harmonised and we have the possibility of active action. Regarding the tax debt payment plan — such plans or strategic payment targets exist. On the one hand, they go in the direction that, as soon as possible after the delay has been established, these pre-emptive alert or telephone alerting procedures shall be initiated and formal procedures initiated, informal procedures initiated at the outset, in order to reduce recovery costs also for taxpayers. This measure is extremely effective. In fact, the tax debt is declining, this year it has decreased by about 5%, and I do not have any definitive numbers on me. Last year, it decreased by 10 %, which are values that are relevant or which show a high intensity in the payment of tax debt. However, with the above-mentioned faster payment under insolvency proceedings, the conditionally recoverable debt and not only active debt will also be reduced rapidly. However, as in last year's year, this year's trend continues, with active debt falling much faster than with a certain amount of passive debt, as certain insolvency proceedings continue to be initiated. As regards asylum policy, possible changes are being prepared in this area. The Ministry of the Interior shall be responsible for the preparation in cooperation with other competent departments. Under the current legislation, there is an estimated €18 per month of so-called allowance for an asylum-free home, one-off cash assistance and three-year asylum-removal assistance, the latter being justified only by those who would actually remain in the territory of Slovenia after leaving their asylum home. These options, or how many of them there would be, cannot be predicted at this time. It should be mentioned that among migrants crossing Slovenia there is an extremely small number of people applying for asylum in Slovenia. Certain expenditure in this regard is planned by the Ministry of the Interior and we also count on the European Asylum Fund for certain expenditure. In the coming year, as already mentioned yesterday, the transition of asylum seekers or asylum seekers to Slovenia is expected to be gradual in accordance with an agreement at European Union level. From this point of view, we do not expect any more costs. Measures specifically designed to address the migration problem, as stated, are intended primarily for the management of costs related to migrants crossing the territory of Slovenia. These costs cover the specific costs of accommodation material, the provision of refugees or migrants, further for the costs of volunteers, soldiers and police officers and other services involved in their care. This is a matter of additional costs, not regular costs, such as employment, because they are paid from regular budget lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u25	Now I have one procedural and one replica, and then I'll reopen the application. First of all, Mr. Joseph Horvat has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the distinguished Secretary of State for her answer. In the context of my procedural proposal, Mr President, I would like you, on behalf of all of us, to invite the Government or the Ministry of Finance to prepare the following for us before deciding on the budget documents. Prepare what will be the dynamics of Slovenia's structural deficit by 2020 – let's say that this is in the form of a histogram or a table – firstly, under the Fiscal Rule Act; secondly, what I have shown here is what is actually a representation of data from the Stability Programme. Why is this my request? Because we have a problem, we have the Fiscal Rule Act, it's one very good tool; we don't have masters who use this tool. And these masters are in the fiscal world. Since we have entered the new era, the new period of adoption of budgetary documents is likely to be once in the future, for example in the 2018 budget, we will also have the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which will say that the structural deficit is ok, structural or fiscal effort is ok. And we'll be at peace. Now it is upon us Members, because we do not yet have a fiscal world, that much greater responsibility. This is what I would like, Mr President, to call on the Ministry of Finance to draw up, on the one hand, a tabular, graphic, any review in relation to the Stability Programme, in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act. And what I almost forgot would be a shame, given Article 5 of Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1466/97 on strengthening budgetary control and on the control and coordination of economic policies. What does this regulation make? For Member States whose debt level exceeds 60% of GDP, or for Member States with a high risk of overall debt sustainability, the Council and the Commission shall examine whether the annual improvement in the cyclically adjusted budget balance with single and other temporary measures is higher than 0.5% of GDP. This is crucial – more than 0.5% of GDP. We have a fiscal effort of only 0.3% here for 2017, so we think this is contrary to the regulation I read. Please, Mr President, for the realization of my request.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u27	He's got a mag replica now. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for the answers you gave me. However, I would expect further clarifications, particularly in the case of these 200 million to be restructured. I asked you if you could tell us with specific names for which companies this is planned. You probably didn't think of these numbers. That's the 200 million you had to get from somewhere. In your words, you mentioned that this is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy. I expect you to be here today as Secretary of State and also as Representative of the Government, 4 hours and 15 minutes we still have time for this debate. I ask you to obtain this information within four hours if you do not have it; and you also convey it to the congregation of the State. The second part, however, is primarily this tax debt. You mentioned, active tax debt is declining. Indeed, it is decreasing; on the other hand, there is an increase in the inactive tax debt, but you did not say that. And this is due to the fact that the inactive tax debt is the debt that is problematic due to bankruptcy proceedings. I am interested in another matter – how much tax debt was cancelled in 2015 and 2014? I am interested in the non-active tax debt segment which has been cancelled due to the termination of bankruptcy proceedings. You can write off the tax debt when the bankruptcy procedure is completed. And I believe that you have a 100 percent tax debt in this potentially negotiable tax debt, which you hold as an inactive tax debt. But we do know what the payouts are like when the company goes into compulsory settlement or bankruptcy. This bankruptcy mass is very small, low and the question is, at what value are these payments then also given out. I therefore wonder how much tax write-offs were made in 2014 and 2015? I also expect an answer with regard to the companies you plan to restructure in 2016 and 2017, where the budget item is around EUR 200 million. I think you can get answers to these questions within 4 hours and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u29	Before I put the matter forward, I find that the issues are not a replica, but they contribute to the debate. As it goes inside the debate, we will take this as part of the debate. And now, for all the others who want to apply for the debate, I am opening up the possibility of applying; please. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Today is the second day we are discussing the budget for 2016 and 2017. We have heard many times that the budget is not development-oriented, that it is exclusively austerity. In the United Left, we are particularly told that we will save on behalf of socially disadvantaged people. Personally, I don't think so. Of course, I agree, we could use more for the socially disadvantaged, we could use more for health, infrastructure, science, and security; but we need to say how. Maybe with extra credit. It is important to know that the state budget still has high debt repayment costs. We only pay more than a billion euros for interest; and this is what the previous governments have done. My friend Pogačnik wondered how he was so high in debt. I don't know. I think it's the wrong address. This is what the previous governments have done, and that is why Slovenia is where it is. That is why all measures taken by the current government are subordinated to the main priorities; and this is a reduction of the deficit. This is not because, as my colleague Logar said, this country is only concerned that the next generation will have a great debt. It's the other way around. Just because we do not want the next generation to inherit only a large debt, the main priority of these two budgets is to reduce the deficit. And in 2017, the principle of a golden fiscal rule is being implemented, which says that it is only possible to be in charge of investments. Let me focus more on the labour market, working conditions and social security. My colleague Luka Mesec says that for 2017 less resources will be allocated to the unemployed. And I don't understand why he defines it as criticism. If the number of unemployed decreases over the years — and that is what this government does — it reduces the number of unemployed — then it is logical that less resources are needed for each year. The measures in the labour market are aimed at increasing employment, stressing that the target groups are long-term unemployed, say older people and those with lower education. Funding for active employment policies is increasing. The budget government is doing exactly the opposite of what is being said today, as it is primarily pursuing social security objectives. In addition, we will protect the most vulnerable, as we will raise financial social assistance from the current 270 to 288 euros, increasing individual transfers to families, students and students. I agree that the budget is cost-effective and at the same time socially oriented. And I believe that by maintaining or even increasing the level of certain social rights, the budget provides a high level of social security, as the level of resources is higher than those of the pre-crisis period. The government is simply taking measures aimed at the country, the economy and the population in order to manage crisis situations. All these measures are aimed at increasing employment opportunities and reducing the number of unemployed on the one hand, taking care of the most vulnerable; responsible and in particular in line with the capacity of the State budget. Comrade Marko Pogačnik devoted half of his time to the debate to the obvious that the coalition does not want or cannot support a single amendment of the opposition itself. I would like to hear how many amendments the opposition adopted themselves during the time of the government of Janez Janša when they adopted the budget. According to my information - none. Therefore I don't know why this epiphany is now; and I don't know whether it's funny or just sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u31	Mrs. Irena Kotnik has the floor. Get Mrs. Urska Ban ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u32	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! I will focus on the budget at the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, because I believe that they are targeted and development-oriented. In doing so, I would like to stress that one of the development priorities of the state budget for 2016 and 2017 is the area of science and information society, as it is an area which, in line with international European and national strategic documents, allows for a long-term increase in competitiveness and the added value of the economy. In the implementation of the budget, three broad development orientations are key: quality assurance of the educational process, openness of the educational space and integration. And one of the umbrella development guidelines for the implementation of both budgets is the right integration of the education system with the economy, which shows the serious and responsible attitude of the competent ministry in this area. It is important that the school system, particularly at the secondary level, such as the introduction of apprenticeships, is adapted to the economy. It should also be pointed out that in 2016, a total of 5.6% of the overall funding is available for higher education, which has declined most in recent years. Priority measures focus on promoting research excellence, financing development schemes for doctoral and post-doctrinal studies and starting to address the spatial distress of all three art institutes. It is also important to highlight the area of primary education where, after a few years, attention is also paid to the quality of the implementation of education programmes, the work with directors and teachers or their professional development. In the integral part of the budget, resources are increasing to complement subsidisation of student lunches in the lowest income classes. The draft budget for 2016, where the proposal for a financial plan is 17% of the total expenditure of the state budget, is lower by €16.1 million than the 2015 implementation. The proposal for a financial plan for 2017 amounts to a billion 640 million and is higher by 37.9 million in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u33	Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u34	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with yesterday's discussion on the budget, this time more focused on 2017, but in Parliament we have been briefed or familiar with the priorities and key challenges ahead of us for the next two years with both drafts of the 2016 and 2017 budget and with all the accompanying legislation. Once again, I would like to stress when we touch on this budgetary treatment that, despite the favourable and optimistic macroeconomic forecasts that show that the economic situation in Slovenia is improving, we must also bear in mind that the available GDP for domestic consumption in 2015 is still 15 % lower than in 2008, it is said in the last year before the crisis. This means that it is not possible to get all the rights that we or we had planned through different budgetary users, programmes and sub-programmes back at the same level, because it will take a few years to grow so that the available GDP for domestic consumption can reach that level ahead of the crisis level. Therefore, in preparing both budgetary documents, the government followed first the principle of reducing the deficit, which is done so as not to adversely affect the recovery of the economy by over-restricting public spending. More than once, it has been explained that this decline will be deliberate and gradual. This is also shown by the budgetary documents, including the 2017 budget, following the measures needed to further reduce the deficit. The budget deficit will be lowest in 2016 after the start of the crisis, with an estimated €840 million or 2.1% of GDP; and €717 million or 1.74% of GDP in 2017. In fact, the budget deficit is falling by 39.1% in 2016 from 2015 to 47.9% in 2017 from 2015. We can certainly say that the country's debt of GDP will fall from 84.2% of GDP to 80.9% of GDP and 78.3% of GDP. If we look at the comparison with the euro area, it's lower than the average and it's lowering faster. As regards the structural balance movement in 2015, it will be at 1.82% of the potential GDP and at 1.27% of the potential GDP in 2016, indicating that Slovenia is on track to a balanced structural deficit. The structurally balanced balance of the wider sector of the country has not been achieved in more than ten years, but we will now approach this goal. As regards the budgetary revenue policy, I already said yesterday, much has been said by the coalition and the government, what is the budgetary revenue policy for 2016 and 2017, that the government's activities on the revenue side will focus mainly on increasing the efficiency of the collection of benefits in the coming year. On the other hand, the measures proposed and already adopted follow up the improvement of the competitiveness of the business environment, notably to remove administrative barriers and to restructure public burdens. It was adopted in view of increasing the efficiency of collecting public duties and eliminating the anomalies of the existing system and the possibility of avoiding payment to public taxes and will enter into force as from 2016. The Law on Taxation of Legal Persons has already been adopted in the field of corporate taxation. As a first important step towards reducing administrative barriers and thus the possibility of improving competitiveness, the Government has already adopted the Tax Procedure Act, which we also have on the table. A new Law on excise duties is being prepared, the Real Estate Tax Act will also be prepared during this period as an important measure for the long-term improvement of the structure of tax resources and, in this regard, the shift in the tax burden between consumption, income and property. So much for income. Now there is something else about the expenditure that has been said about today. And I'd still say some numbers in this place, so I won't repeat myself. As regards the planned revenues in 2016, they amounted to EUR 9.5 billion, or 23.9 % of GDP, which decreased by the previous year or the current year 2015, when the share of expenditure in total GDP was 25.61 %; and in 2014, when the share of expenditure was 25.88 %. This shows that the government has made efforts to reduce budget spending as budgetary expenditure in the proportion of GDP falls to the lowest level since 2008. By bringing all sectors of the country together, the expenditure of the state sector is falling from 47.7% of GDP in 2015 to 45.8% of GDP in 2016 and to 44.4% of GDP in 2017. Compared to the euro area, this structure, what I have just said, is lower than the average of the European Union countries, as well as the euro area, as well as lower than the European Union countries, and lowering the share of GDP even faster. We can say that the country is successfully reducing budgetary spending during a period of higher economic growth, which does not have a negative impact on economic growth, as if during a period of zero economic growth or recession. With regard to the composition or composition of expenditure, it should be pointed out that the State budget still has high debt repayment costs. The interest rate is slightly over € billion in 2016, and funds will be reduced gradually for these purposes, as the country will reduce debt by creating primary surpluses and privatisation. However, the share of GDP in the state budget's debt repayment is reduced from 2.69 % of GDP in 2015 to 2.65% of GDP in 2016. A faster reduction in interest would only jeopardise the developmental part of the budget. With regard to the priority of the state budget, the level of investment in 2016 is decreasing according to 2015; however, it must be said that investments are higher than in 2012; investment transfers amounted to 741 million in 2012 and 804 million in 2016. Last year is not a comparable year because we know that the level of investment in 2014 and 2015 was markedly high due to the fact that 31. 12. 2015 concludes the period of eligible funding costs for the financial perspective 2007-2013. And despite the decline in investment levels in 2015 from 5.6% of GDP to 3.7% of GDP in 2016 and 3.6% of GDP in 2017, Slovenia maintains a high level of public investment in GDP relative to the average of euro area countries, when this amounted to 2.7% of GDP for 2015, in 2016 2.6% of GDP and in 2017 2.6% of GDP. We also maintain a somewhat comparable picture with the euro area in this work. I have really tried to answer some of the facts or the thesis that have already been exposed in this debate with these numbers myself. I support both draft budgets because they are oriented in some way to confront and successfully confront and include all these challenges, which Minister Marble also said yesterday – from reducing the deficit to reducing the EU, implementing the social agreement, excessive expectations, promoting economic growth and employment. I believe that the numbers through users, programmes, sub-programmes adequately address these challenges and that such a budget will ultimately also realize and achieve the objectives set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u35	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! Allow me to continue reading exercises. Fundamental starting points and values of government action. The basic starting point and the principle of the functioning of this government are responsible, constructively, coherently, transparently solving social problems and finding the best solutions for a person as an individual, for individual social groups, NGOs, the economic sector and the country as a whole. We will put the international competitiveness and economic performance of Slovenia as members of the European Union in a competitive global environment among our priorities. These are the first sentences of a coalition contract. But you're doing something completely different. Let us leave aside all the laws you adopt, read a little budget for 2016 and 2017 – economic performance, finding the best solutions for an individual, social groups and so on. This government has come into power with a paradigm other than that of an ethical and moral state of the rule of law, how it will be different and better. And after one year, so we see the first of your specific budgets, unfortunately, if we read the budgets so that there is no mistake, this government is worse. Moreover, this government speaks in this sense, as has been said several times yesterday – which is good, thanks go to us; but what is bad is still the fault of the previous governments. The easiest thing to talk about is the 2004-2008 mandate when Janez Janša was; and then all the other governments, as if we could not read any internationally comparable graphs. For example, the SD and Desus were in 2008-2011 when we had the worst government in all international, economic, fiscal, economic and other indicators; but not. Now that these two parties are in this government, there is a new policy; however, there is still almost a break in those governments. The discussion in the budget also shows that, in fact, neither the government itself nor government representatives have any intention of dealing with real problems. Let's just look at 2017. SDS – 80 minutes, total coalition – 120 minutes, together with the government – 165 minutes. Finally, we encouraged coalition Members to speak for 15 minutes in almost an excuse why they accept such a budget as it is. Again, the paradigm -- which is good, we are good; which is bad, and yet the former governments are guilty of all those, including the former heads of government, who are also sitting here in the National Assembly. I'm most afraid of the next budget because we don't have a feeling. It was usually known – budget, legislation. With this government, I'm sorry, but I don't know who's following. Whether the laws will follow the budget or maybe the budget will follow some such and different measures of these laws. Moreover, all the laws that have been passed are also adopted in this session, and those which are foretold have one red thread – the filing of the state budget. It's the only thread. And before that, one of the predecessors said – yes, yes, a great debt of the previous government. Allow me, because you have been in power and philate state budget with laws for more than one year; I do not want to brag, but perhaps only as a reminder of what that blasphemous government of John Janša did between February 2012 and January 2014. ZUJF – today and yesterday at least I do not hear how this was the worst thing, but obviously we will gradually really agree that this was the most realistic thing that had to be done in those days when we took power and started to reduce the deficit of the previous government under the 2008-2011 mandate. ZUJF, we've set up designs for a golden fiscal rule. Our mandate has begun to discuss the so-called bad bank. We have partly adopted an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Labour Relations Act. We have raised investment and research incentives to what you are doing or what you are going to do — lower them. So less for people and the economy, more to fill the state budget. Yeah, you're really different, but unfortunately in the wrong direction. For example, I liked it very much in that mandate, but fortunately also a concrete measure – the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities. If we had at least another year's mandate, at least 100 million more would have provided for the energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities and probably owned by the state. Then came another government, and almost part of the invitation to tender was drawn to Stožice, and I have been asking the current government for a year when there will be a specific invitation to tender in favor of the congregations. He's not here. And I will continue with the congregation. Average – some sad story in recent years, when unfortunately the congregation does not have union representatives named Branimir Strukelj and so on, because if they did negotiate, the average would probably be EUR 636, but not that the average from 2012 even falls, in fact and also in reality. Otherwise, there is no more Gregor Virant in this national assembly, who has done such or otherwise; but the policy in the field of the congregations is disastrous. The municipalities wonder whether they will survive 2015 with final accounts. What is expected for the 2016 averages will be living and wondering, as the mayors say, whether they will even exist in 2017. And some want to get under the authority of the State as soon as possible, and if the country does, there will be congregations with it. And in addition to the ordinary citizen and the economy, the municipalities are the biggest losers of these two budgets for 2016 and 2017. But we all know who the winner of these two budgets is, and this is the sector that has also helped this government in the elections. Moreover, the temporary measures we have taken in the infamous ZUJF have had a transitional and final provision – when economic growth, with these temporary austeritys, I would say, colleague Križanič, who was once in Parliament, we are putting an end to the measures. And what this government does – temporary measures at the time of economic growth turn into permanent measures. You take citizens to fill the state budget, and yet we will still have a nice and, I believe, very inefficient debt. Moreover, measures that do harm are being taken; on the other hand, you do not take measures to ensure that no harm is done. And I'll tell you on my own case. For 2016 and 2017, I proposed three amendments. One is a general one that has probably been repeated since 1990, the rehabilitation of state roads. Let us look at the budget, how much resources are allocated for reconstruction and new construction in national road transport, and for 2017, you will see that in the long term this lack of action of yours will require more resources. Whose? We all know what the EU perspective is 2014-2020, that we will no longer build roads with European funds, and there are almost no funds in the state budget. In 2018 we will ask again why there are so many fatalities – bad roads, unwise drivers, and no money in the state budget. Second case, sports infrastructure. In the budget for 2016 – EUR 100 000, for 2017 – EUR 100 000. At least I appeal to those who have ever been close to the functioning of local communities as municipal councillors, local councillors, mayors, to be aware of what 100,000 euros means for the state of Slovenia. Nothing! You'll move three fences, some little football field asphalt, and maybe make one beach walley field. And this is the investment of the state budget for sports infrastructure, which we already know is on average 27 or 37 years old. Which means once again, because we will not address this problem, the problem will be put off and there will be greater costs in the future. And the last amendment I proposed was the lower Sava. I come from a place near Savi. I remember when the previous Prime Minister of the Government was at the opening of the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant. We believed that this hydropower plant would be built within the framework laid down in the legislation; but no, this government did not provide the means to complete the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant. And then I receive a letter that because the Brežice hydropower plant will not be completed by the end of 2016, as planned, but because this coalition decided to end in 2019, after a rough calculation of 15 and over 20 million euros of damage to be done. Not to mention environmental damage and flood safety, which we know of at least those who come from places along the Sava River, and perhaps others who fight against flood protection. But no, this coalition moves easily for three years in its budget documents the completed hydroelectric Brežice and the hydroelectric Mokrice have already been thrown out of the NRP. We will work once or let a new government deal with this after 2017 and 2018 when another government comes. Look at the fraction, and on the other hand, the money is dedicated and privileged. Minister Židan easily negotiates $20 million for the establishment of a state forest company, although we have GG, the Institute of Forests, the fund that we have the equipment, we just need to connect it a little. Minister Židan only needs 20 million euros for a state-owned company to be established and will also receive them with ease. You tell us and the opposition MPs on the other hand where to get it. I hope you are still aware that all the amendments we have proposed are financially balanced. Where we wanted to put it, that's how much we took. I hope that you have learned so much in this term that the amendments can be tabled. But no, it's not for state roads, it's not for railways, it's not for culture. I was very close at the time when one of the so-called superministers provided EUR 185 million for culture within his superministership; the culturers spat in his face. Now I think it's 142 million for culture, and these same cultures applaud how well the cultural field is arranged. For my terms, it's overturned, but I ask that culturers not spit on the former ministers, but visit the current minister and ask her a few questions about culture to the cultural ministry. On the other hand, we also have environmental issues. I say, however, that the Environment Ministry should make a whole new one, but given the level of the amount that you allocate to the Ministry of Environment and Space, we will be able to scan this ministry as soon as the municipalities do. Just as the level of resources in this area is falling, we can ask ourselves, who, in what way, and by what means will ever again deal with protection, against floods, and all that we remember when we deal with curate, not prevention. Investments. I think yesterday Mrs Bratušek said 600 million euros less if I just filled in and wrote down 600 million less. This is said by the government, which tells us how it will be economically successful, but we have no roads, no railways to go with the ease of our products abroad. There's two things going on abroad. Exporters, i.e. capital, and young people, because in the budget with the projected tax burdens, they find nothing more clever in this country. In those days, when VAT rates are forecast to rise, or a new tax that goes from temporary to permanent, they wonder why we should stay in Slovenia at all; we go to Slovakia, the Czech Republic, to those countries from which we used to make fools out of them. When, for example, Mr Janez Janša said EDS (the only tax rate), he had 10,000 people on the streets on Saturday – no, but no uniform tax rates. Now that there are 22%, this tax rate is the highest for our Slovenia. Amazing how fast the clock and the thinking in the heads of certain people changes. Funds or incentives for research and investment are being reduced. I talked to a brother who works in a larger one, even after the number of employees of the largest Slovenian company, thinking about two things. They will first move the highly educated and paid personnel abroad, and within one year they will consider moving production physically to those countries I mentioned earlier. Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Latvia are obviously a promised country for all; only for our officials to monitor why they are so successful, obviously these are no longer successful countries. Let me go back to the amendments, I believe the minister said - there is no vine dead, we will not accept any amendments from the opposition. But if I recall correctly, at least one or two amendments have always accepted that the opposition was a little pious and we couldn't say, because nothing can be said. This coalition, as I have already said, is indeed different – no amendment, not from the so-called left opposition, not from the so-called right opposition, probably the middle opposition, no amendment will be accepted. So I don't think these budgets are optimal, they're probably ideal if there's not even €15 000 for an investment, nor is there $60 million for an investment, which will result in 20 million damage due to non-admission. Apparently, the budget is perfect. Obviously, it is also ideal because coalition Members do not even want to discuss what and how. Let me finish this slowly. When I read this budget for 2017, when I see where it is shrinking everywhere, especially the economy, environment and space, infrastructure, health care, which has already knelt down and nothing else gets, agriculture will go abroad as soon as possible. The only thing we'll have left in the country is the Jewish state company. And I'm afraid that's more than a wish list. When you come to the National Assembly with laws that will result from these adopted budgets, I am truly afraid that you will continue with this policy that you have drawn up – to take the citizens and the philates of the state budget. As colleague Pogačnik said earlier, I hope that you will sober up before the Slovenian economy – I apologize, the President – dies because then it will not be for the salaries of public servants and public officials, not for pensions, scholarships and so on. Once we wake up and say - oh, without the economy we are gone, then we can start thinking smartly; but there are unfortunately no such forecasts in the budgets for 2016 and 2017. Weak prospects, apparently followed by even worse facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u37	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, get Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Since I said a lot yesterday about the budget for 2016 and 2017, I did not think today or wanted to advertise; but colleagues and colleagues from the biggest government party always encourage me to do so. At the end of the discussion yesterday evening, we heard about stopping the train. I agree. You're really stopping him. Today, however, a colleague of the girl’s talked about how the government is reducing unemployment. Unfortunately, I also agree with this, I always thought that this was what the economy was doing. I wish she was doing the economy. I would ask the Secretary of State to provide us with information on how much the number of employees in the state and public administration has increased within the mandate of this government. I know it has increased; I also have an assessment, but I want to hear from the government how much the government has reduced the number of unemployed at the expense of employment in the state or public administration. That's not something to brag about, by the way. Even this constant turning back, my respectable colleagues and colleagues, will not lead you forward. Many of the past governments are responsible or guilty, as you say. I can also say that for a country from a deep recession – almost 5% of the decline in economic activity – we have brought about 3% of economic growth. As I know, the forecast for 2015, 2016 and 2017 is below 3%. Don't turn around too much. You can work with us, with the future. I said it with us because even when you were talking or talking about the amendments, it was obvious that the previous coalition had not confirmed any of the opposition's amendments. Even if that were true, but it is not you, 35 or 36 of you in this national assembly because you said you would be different, that you would do otherwise, offer us a hand; then you will not even notice a finger. 45 amendments, I told you yesterday how much ours are worth, so I don't agree to an explanation of the 43 million amendments and why they're not feasible. I want to know in particular why our road amendment, which is less than a million, is not acceptable to the government and the ruling coalition. But it's two roads, one in Prekmurje and one in Primorska. I am not even talking about Kranj, although I am a Member there because we have estimated that these two are more necessary there and because I am aware that the budgets are limited. I'm not supposed to explain $43 million, but tell me why amendments for less than a million or for mediation of 100,000 euros are not acceptable. And one more thing I'm going to touch – a new financial perspective, I missed yesterday. Two years, the year 2016 and 2017, the new financial perspective started in 2014. It is four years, but virtually none of the new financial perspectives are in the budget, which means that unfortunately the story of the previous, when the financial perspective had to end, will work almost miraculously at the end of the day, that we are either a major part of the money available to Europe for our country, or that we will be a major part of the money that is available to our country; and now we are also four years of new financial perspectives, so to speak. Unfortunately. And I know that we are limited in our domestic budget, so this European would be even more welcome. I want a number on the increase of employees in the state or public administration so that we can congratulate the coalition on the fact that it has indeed reduced the number of unemployed at the expense of public administration employment. And one more thing I was interested in, and we had a rather hot debate yesterday, which is how much the pension will increase in 2017 in line with the documents we have today on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u39	Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor; Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, welcome! Today we have a budget for 2017, and I will use the words of my fellow Member, Mr Shirtzl, in which there is still a little more fog than in 2016. What bothers me, as in the 2016 budget, is also not clear from the 2017 budget any reform needed for the country, not in the field of health, justice, nor in the field of education. We need to be aware that we are educating people who are unemployed in the country. Many social professions are unemployed in the country, while companies point out that they lack technical skills and lack jobs. I think we have done absolutely nothing in this area yet, and none of this is in sight. The reforms of the public sector, as I said yesterday, are not, although it has been very promised and is still necessary. What bothers me most personally is that it's not a burden on the economy. With this set, this mini-tax reform, which will continue for the next three days in public treatment, will certainly not relieve the economy, we can read this several days after all the media. All representatives of the economy and directors of various companies also stress this. Nevertheless, at present this legislation is unfortunately only 10 days in public treatment, I hope that this does not mean that you do not intend to take these comments into account at the Ministry. I would like to see one real tax reform actually made, which the state of Slovenia would urgently need; it should go in the direction of decommissioning the economy. Now I am concerned about this tax reform, whether it is the tax reforms or the three laws, how we can adopt them later than we will adopt the budget. I would really like to ask for an answer to this question whether this is in accordance with certain legal procedures. I believe that you have already taken these changes into account in the 2016 and 2017 budget, but in fact legislation will – if adopted – be adopted at the end of the year. Therefore, it is likely that the urgency of the procedure and therefore probably a short time to comment on the public concerned. The measures you take discourage potential investors from Slovenia. We are already on the tail if we look at net investments in Slovenia and the rest of the European Union. By reducing R & D incentives, reducing investment and employment incentives, you drive away foreign investors. We do not have many, some small, but they still employ a significant number of people, but they will rather turn around and go elsewhere because of similar measures. Or they may no longer be expanding production in our country; many of them have such a purpose, fortunately. I find it really difficult to understand, on the one hand, that I am listening to the Minister to advocate for investment, and on the other hand, he is taking such measures as I think are quite contrary to this. I just can't explain it to myself here. In Slovenia we also have a constant problem that we have too many state-owned enterprises. This appears to be a weakness in all areas. However this largest coalition party of the SMC was in the very beginning or even in that electoral campaign, in some way promised what ethics and you will have to go when we look at the footage now and what is happening is no different, but it is still significantly worse than ever before. But the problem is the state-owned company. Why? Because it is a very good source of employment for political personnel, not experts, for various advisory contracts. The tweet that had long flown on Twitter seemed so good to me — that it was no longer the most expensive bird of the seagulls, but a piece. It fits very well in this context, but however they are then for various advisory contracts, for legal contracts, for pear contracts and also for the supply of media. And that's the problem, and that's why foreign investors don't like to come to Slovenia. I wonder about the numbers themselves, if we look at what we have on the revenue side, what we have on the expenditure side. If we look at what we get in the 2017 state budget – a total of €8.7 billion. If we look at it, we get the most out of it from the value added tax. And here I'm worried about this system extension so I don't misinterpret myself. The increased value added tax rate was confirmed in the Budget Implementation Act 2014 and 2015. This means, limited to these two years, even though the purpose of this measure may have been different at the time, but under these budgetary laws, you systematically resolve this by fixing this higher rate of value added tax. I understand that this is the largest source of revenue in the state budget, but it is important to be aware that this is the burden of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. What addresses do we get much more from? We get a billion-and-a-half dollars of excise duty, we get a billion dollars of income from income, and we get half a billion dollars from corporate income tax. In 2017, we will receive less than €850 million of the European Union's funds in 2016. Yesterday, I have already pointed out that I am somewhat skeptical about this one billion euro planned to be recovered, given that we do not have a single call from the new financial perspective. This is where you plan less. This is only about a new financial perspective and also about other funds. In fact, I am concerned about whether these figures are real; even in this case, in the 2017 budget. But when we look at the expenditure, we see that we have a total of about 9.4 billion euros in expenditure. We have a huge interest rate of over €1 billion for more than €1 billion. When we look at current transfers, we see that we have a total of more than €5 billion. This goes to individuals and households for 1.2 billion; 1.5 billion euros in social security funds; these are probably pensions, the difference that we still have to hide in the pension fund. When the pension reform was carried out in 2012, it was indeed stressed that it is somehow sustainable by 2020. Here is the budget for 2017, nothing is in view of the preparation of the new pension reform. It is very good, you have also stressed here that the positive effects of this one, which was made in 2012, are showing in that very short term of the other Janša government, but however, a new pension reform needs to be considered. We have to put a billion and a half per year from the budget to the pension fund so that our pensioners can have pensions. I'm very often worried when people say in the field, because I've been working for 40 years, it's been deposited in an account somewhere, and now I get it from that account. It's hard to explain to people that their money is gone. What they get today is what we pay all of us who work; plus another billion and a half needs to be added to it. We have such a system, but the problem is that in the long run it will be urgently necessary for something to be done here. For public institutions we give 1.7 billion euros, which is also a lot of money. When we look at investments, we see that we have investment expenditure of half a billion and investment transfers of 385 million. But we're very stingy here, and we can't talk about billions anymore. And that's what I'm actually worried about in this budget -- so to speak, there's no investment, there's almost no investment in infrastructure. I was very pleased when the opening – which was already very embarrassing – of the missing section of Drazenci-Gruškovje, that we would now have a complete motorway crossing. It was a very big event at the time, great. It is only sad that such projects in the country will be very few in 2016 and 2017; and this worries me. Such investments are certainly an important driver of the country's development, driving the economy, creating new jobs. I'm really worried that's not gonna happen. As far as the congregations are concerned, the average agreement no longer worked. I don't know if they still exist or if there'll be any other arrangements, I don't know what average you'll end up agreeing to. The EUR 536 is really what the municipalities expect, the minimum that the municipalities would need for their functioning. It is important to be aware that we are imposing increasingly on them obligations that must be fulfilled by law. We have an increasing number of older people, that they have increasing costs with homes for the elderly and that additional subsidies for kindergartens for the congregations are a great cost. This is something the congregations must give. I really understand them insisting on this number. They were aware, yes, they needed to be saved; now, on one side of the set, something was going down and they would still be strained. The increase in salaries for public servants also affects the congregations, and this will also result in more costs for the congregations. And all of this has to be taken into account if not more than that. I am also concerned that the budget for 2017 does not plan funds for migration issues. Of course, it is difficult to predict what will happen in this area in 2017. We all probably want the number 0 to be the right number. However, it may be a little unrealistic that this resource is not planned; or at the start, when we adopt the budget, it indicates that this budget will need to be rebalanced. I must express my disappointment that you have not accepted any of our amendments, as the predecessors have pointed out. Well, we haven't voted on the amendments yet, so I still have a little bit of hope. I can't get past not exposing Haloz again, even though I always do; and I have to. Why? All parliamentary parties agreed, Haloze is an area that is growing, where the number of inhabitants is decreasing, where there is great potential. We are unitedly committed to helping this area. Unfortunately, this cannot be done without additional funding. The government has appointed a working group to prepare concrete measures for the integrated development of Haloz. The mandate has been extended until the end of 2015 and until then the measures must be ready. This means that they would be implemented in 2016 and 2017. And now that we are adopting the budget, we should and should think about it. That is why we tabled these amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in case you accidentally forgot about it. That is why we propose that in 2017 also €5 million – which we know is not much – be spent to further the recovery of this area. It would be appropriate to talk about larger amounts, but this is at least something that certain things can be pursued so that they can at least in some way recover. Since you have all agreed with this and that there have been many ministers in this area, the President of the Government, the President of the State, that all these people have made promises, I really hope that you will not let them down now. People are asking me what's going to happen to them now, what's going to happen from the fact that the Prime Minister was with them? That's exactly what they're asking me. So far, I can still tell them that the working group has until the end of the year time to prepare measures. But now we have a budget here, and it's not there. Really, don't play! You're playing with people! But you still have this opportunity when we vote on this amendment, and I'm really counting on you to support it. I do not support the 2017 budget. Why? Because it is actually about saving mainly at the expense of investments, which I think is very bad; because in some ways social peace is maintained, which would not be necessary if we gave a little more emphasis to decommissioning the economy, because more people would have employees. Because there are no necessary reforms for the country, because we do not really know where Slovenia will go in the coming years, which is once again a major problem. These are the first two of your budgets, and we should try even harder to show some guidance. But what bothers me most is the extra burden on the economy. The economy should be the heart, the backbone of Slovenia in the situation we are in today. Everything else should be subject to this, as the well-functioning economy depends on what the development of the country will be. And it depends on this private sector what we can afford in the public sector. And the public sector should, in the first place, be a good, excellent service to citizens and citizens and to the economy, which is why we have it; I do not know why we would otherwise need it. The social state, I agree, too, the social state, which must also be a just state. Every time we give someone something, we just have to take it somewhere else, so it's in the budget. So we also had to prepare amendments to this budget, if we wanted to give someone something, we had to take something from someone else. We understand that, but it is not right that we owe ourselves additionally and thus burden the younger generations behind us. The system of state must be fair. We are Members of Parliament in the field as far as this allows us to work here in this institution. It hurts when you hear from people – these two don't work anywhere like a family gets so many and so many social transfers; and my husband and I are at the end of the month with a hard garage somewhere in production for a minimum wage. I believe a country like this doesn't seem like a fair country to me. And if such cases really exist, we should do more in this area. But we haven't heard anything about any reform of the social system. That things in the country actually don't work the way they should, but also shows how many people move abroad. In Austria alone, there are 14,000 Slovenians, mostly young. We trained all of you. We put a lot of money into all of these as a country, and in a period of time, when they started returning to us, they preferred to move out. When they get decisions that they have to pay their income, because our classes are set up differently than in Austria, then the sad ones pay it, but they say to themselves: "Okay, then I will move to Austria. There they get all the benefits of building a house, taking care of a child; these stories are sad. You may not feel them here in the centre of Ljubljana, but we, who are more from the end of Styria, hear that very often. And when the system in the country is different, I believe it will be possible, let's hope, even one of them will gladly return to Slovenia. Unfortunately, the budget for 2017 is not developed and, in my opinion, it is not going in the right direction, so I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u41	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Already in the face of the indignation of many citizens, who, after the 2016 budget meeting yesterday and today when we are considering the 2017 budget, write and call on us what is actually going on, I have to make it clear that this budget is the budget of this government and these coalitions. You literally shut down a third of the National Assembly. You will not heed any amendment, you will not listen to any proposal. You've already shown this on the committee, you've shown this in the debate. And that is essential for citizens to know. That is why I propose, a well-respected coalition, that you reach into the coalition contract immediately after the adoption of both documents. You know, it's not people's concern, it's just a part of people's concern. You simply removed the rest, you do not want to hear or listen. And that's bad. Why they're upset, I'll tell you. Whole local communities, half the municipalities, report. What happens to investments in infrastructure? Who's making fun of them here?Oh, my God! On one side they listen all the time to how we will make sure that areas that are economically cut off, where virtually nothing is left; and those who remain there and fight the battle are somehow forced to walk on bread elsewhere. They drive along macadam roads, regional roads in this country are still macadamist. On the other hand, many of our citizens still do not have access to drinking water and sewage. And that's how it's gonna stay. Nothing. If we look at the other side of the data, we'll be in debt for 4 billion. Where are they going? Four billion. You're not going to save social peace that way. You won't if you choke the economy on the other side. This is not just the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the economy reminds you that there is no investment and that this is a problem. We didn't make that up again. Previously, one of the colleagues, Mrs Girl, said that this budget is socially oriented and that will not hold. How socially oriented it is if the measure applied during the crisis – today it is with indicators that the crisis is no longer due to your work, of course, but it is the result of the conduct and work of one government earlier, because you always like to stress what they are all responsible for – not only prolonging it, but constantly applying it to value added tax. This will burden the same housewife who earns 600 euros when she goes to get a basket of emergency foods, or that gentleman who deserves a minimum wage for a super contract in two hours. That's it, that's your step towards the social state. Hey, hey, hey, that's not gonna work. The Minister of Finance, we have not seen him for the second day, said that this budget is primarily focused on security, in the protection of security. That's his statement. Now let's look at the numbers. True, in 2016 you allocated more resources to the police. What about 2017? This money you've given to the cops, it's not for the equipment yet, for those stations there are no where they literally don't hope to walk in those boots anymore, so they won't fall down on the lower floor. That's what they're reporting. Today, individual police stations are almost empty because the border crossings are strengthened because we do not have enough police officers. This increase, which was intended for 2016, should in fact go fully to strengthen this resource as such; no matter what the situation is in the country. Today, when we all know that they are tight, and you're dropping these funds again 2017, it shows that you want to comfort the citizens in some way, even comforting the police, even though they're not best given by the forecasted sentence, and they're not as stupid as some of you want to have. But the fact is that from 330 million you will then go back to 318 in 2017 for the police. It's a real state. The Finance Minister points out, however, that we will take care of security in the budgets. Let's have a little more time at the Ministry of Defense. Are there any increases? Do you even notice them? We are saying that the budget is securely oriented. A fitting and good excuse in this time of distress for citizens who fear themselves and their property; but that is not true. There's nothing about the budget that's secure. This money, which we will give back to our families in some way, because they will have to pay the debt, will certainly not be spent in the right direction. It is also true that funds for justice are increasing. If we look at why - just because our judiciary violates human rights, then the judgments fall in the European Court of Justice and, of course, we must now make sure that these matters are settled. We do not have a reform of justice on the table, but we would say that due to reform of justice and more effective justice, we will devote more resources to this area; but we are paying for what we do not have. We pay for what is worst, we pay for human rights violations instead of ensuring that the justice system works. The biggest problem with this budget is that individual resources within the system have no programmes at all. I have a feeling that some of the funds are split up a little bit, and then they'll see what they're gonna do with that money. There are many areas without programs, there are no plans, there is no clear picture of what we want. We want an economic healthy country — obviously not because, by taxes and by keeping investment on the table, we are choking it. We're choking the economy. With taxes again, we give burdens to citizens and, on the other hand, in one and the same breath, you are quick to point out that this is the first budget after the crisis. That's what Minister Marble said. Yeah, well, then let's invest in making it even better next time. Of course not, and you don't want to hear it. When we made concrete, really concrete proposals in the amendments, one of them was to give a little more to the police. This, of course, will not solve all the problems, but it will certainly show our will. No, you'd better keep more resources in the so-called information cloud. Well, in my opinion, the cloud kind of suits this coalition because there's a lot of stuff in the cloud. This information cloud should certainly remain what it is – a cloud. But you don't want to hear what the information cloud will do if people don't have basic equipment. And one more thing, there is also a lot of talk about the agreement between the public sector unions and the negotiations of the Minister of Public Administration. Let me remind you that this agreement was not signed by the soldiers, not signed by a part of the police and not signed by Fides. However, it is precisely the areas and sectors that are most at risk in the country; and it has proved to be how highly malnourished they are. But Minister Marble says the budget is secure. Forgive the expression, but I think we get in Slovenia quite a long-lasting Ostrzek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u43	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. First, a few answers to questions I still owe. With regard to restructuring, or 200 million which are earmarked in the B balance sheet for possible restructuring. I cannot mention concrete companies in this place. This is a potential or asset that we have at our disposal, but it is not yet determined in which companies or in which procedures these funds will be used. This will be done in the opposite direction, depending on the situation or the needs they face. As far as tax debt is concerned. In 2014, EUR 206 million was written off, of which the bankruptcy and enforcement proceedings were completed for EUR 74 million and write-offs for EUR 74 million. This year, up to October, procedures for bankruptcy and forcible settlement or write-offs in this regard were completed for 82 million and all write-offs for 134 million. These other write-offs relate to the death of the debtors, the statute of limitations and the write-off under Article 101 of the Tax Procedure Act. With regard to pensions, I answered that last night, and I'll say it again. The increase in pensions is foreseen at 0,7 %. And taking into account the last data on the average age pension, if I only talk about the retirement pension, this is the data that was 610 euros in September; that is, 4.27 euros in the monthly pension. However, taking into account other pensions in addition to the old ones, the average is slightly lower – €562.7. The increase in this case would be 3.75. Of course, the specific increase in each pension depends on his actual pension, as his pension increases by 0.7% and does not increase with any average. As far as the law is concerned. This budget shall be monitored by all laws having an impact on the revenue or expenditure side of the budget and accompanied by budgetary documentation under the Public Finance Act. The proposal for a tax reform, which is under public scrutiny and foresees the adoption of three laws, two novelties and one new law, will have an impact on restructuring, i.e. on a number of tax revenues to be collected in the coming years; not on the extent of the taxes collected. As a result, these three laws are not counted in the budget package. If we wish to do otherwise, then all the other rules adopted during the year with any financial implications should be adopted at the time of the budget's consideration or delayed for one year. As regards the new financial perspective, funds are provided in the budget, both in the 2016 budget and for 2017. For 2016, the revenue of the old financial perspective is still foreseen, which is not expected in 2017. The remainder of the 5 % pending approval of all operations carried out will not be expected until 2018. This means that in 2017 European revenue is projected at 845 million and almost 846 million, which means approximately 9% less than in 2016. It is from this title that I have mentioned that revenue from the old financial perspective is no longer available in 2107. When it comes to the fact that there are no calls for funds for the new financial perspective, we need to separate essentially two matters; one is where the beneficiaries of the funds are individual ministries, and the other where the funds are allocated further to other end-users. For 2016, investment programmes are ready. Those which were around 60% of the funds that were prepared at the beginning of September are also included and distributed by resources in the 2016 and 2017 draft budgets, while the remaining funds are planned at the Cohesion and Development Service. These funds will be transferred to the repositories as soon as the investment documents are prepared, in accordance with the provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget. With regard to the transfer to the pension fund, I would just like to point out that this transfer is declining, not only because of the effects of the 2012 reform, but also because of the economic situation and the increased inflow of contributions to the pension fund. This is also the case with regard to pensions; further steps towards further reform of pension insurance are in preparation and will be further presented or debated as soon as the working group comes up with a proposal for a solution. This certainly cannot affect the revenue or expenditure of the state budget for 2016 or 2017. With regard to investment expenditure, I would like to stress once again that for 2017 they are planned at a total of 863 million, which puts us somewhere at the level of investment expenditure realised in 2013. In 2014 and 2015, these expenditure deviates strongly due to the earlier and repeatedly mentioned conclusion of the old financial perspective. However, if we also take into account the funds we provide for investment investments in the B balance sheet, which are intended to further fertilise with private investment capital, then there is much more of this – public funds of 926 million in total. Regarding the municipalities: we have also taken into account the increased costs of the municipalities in the calculation or negotiations with the municipalities in connection with the union agreement. These costs are estimated at 13 and a half million euros, and at the same time we have provided the municipalities with savings in their operation of around 20 million euros. Savings have already been made for €5 million this year. So, in fact, regardless of the increase in wages even in that part of the public sector financed by municipalities, the whole mechanism is set up so that municipalities can operate normally even with the proposed average, even if I take into account the last proposal made at the table yesterday. As regards the debt, I repeat, 4 billion is a gross debt in 2017 and 2.9 billion is a principal repayment, i.e. an additional debt not for 4 billion, but for a billion 100, that is to cover the deficit in A and B balance. As regards the Ministry of the Interior, when preparing the budget, they were provided both for 2016 and for 2017 with 30 million additional resources in relation to the initial calculations. This is the extent of the resources that we believe are still ensuring a balance between the various objectives set by the Government with these budgets, but this represents a significant increase in resources right on the security segment. With regard to the funds intended to provide information support to the public administration’s work, the so-called computer cloud, this is a project to centralise information support to the part of the public administration, which will have savings both at the level of public administration, public administration and at the level of the public sector of municipalities or the wider public sector. Data on employment, concrete, I am still waiting, I hope to have them by the end of the debate, but in general, I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget and to the agreement with the public sector's trade unions, which allows for alternative employment, only exceptionally to the increase in the number of gross employees, is said to be permissible, substitution is allowed within the framework of the human resources plans, which must provide an average reduction of one percent of the number of employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u45	Would you like another round? Replica has the advantage. Replica mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I'd like to get data on the number of employees, because I'm sure they're not only lowering negative one, but they're increasing more than positive one. As far as pensions are concerned, thank you for your answer, for 2016, we also calculated here together yesterday what this means, but I want a clear answer, what the documents ahead of us now foresee for 2017 – because we are now talking about 2017 – and also the financial plan for the pension fund, we are attached to the budget and so on. So, for 2017, if we can get this answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u47	It's not a replica either, but it's in debate time, so I'm not gonna make a problem. Shall we make another round? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for that answer about the tax write-off. I think that your hypotheses or your theories that the tax debt has been reduced, but they have come true, but it has not fallen from the budget to the additional inflows, but has fallen because, as I have understood you, only in 2015 by 137 million tax has been cancelled. I think that there will be a lot more work to be done on this segment and expect at least two written questions from the Member States on this subject, as it is now clear that the state does not actually know how to collect the tax debt. If I write off a $1 billion 400 tax debt, you will only write off 137 million tax debt this year. You write off a $137 million tax debt! Can't Furs really make sure that the person who owes the tax actually pays it to be collected? And one of the interesting questions raised by the Member States is probably how much of this tax debt has actually been recovered and the inflow into the budget, without being written off. I mean, if you had that information, I would have asked him today. To go back a little further to the budget, because it has already been said in my first debate today, I would like to focus a little bit more on all of the burdens imposed by the State on the economy and taxpayers at this point. Let's take a look at the power grid. I'd say, thank you, Officer Finance, for revealing everything we pay from the title of this bill. I think it would make sense for us to win such a law in the National Assembly so that, in fact, all these positions and burdens on various positions should be disclosed. For example, at 38 euros the amount of the bet sent to you by Elektro Slovenije, or Elektro Maribor, or Gorenjska, is a real cost for electricity of 12 euros and 26 euros for various taxes, for various agencies and all the other nonsense that is supported within this country. Well, if you'll excuse the expression. It's the same story for oil derivatives excises. Consider that these excise duties will be lower and all of these, I would say, flowers that are still glued to the retail price of both petrol and oil. A nice calculation of the case was, even if oil were on the world market 1 cent, in Slovenia we would pay 80 cents for a litre of oil, because we have such extreme burdens: both excise and CO2, then we pay for electricity production, which is probably fuelled by TEŠ and other inherited projects. If we want to make a competitive economy, I mean, as I mentioned earlier, we probably need to get a new government, because under this government and under this coalition of Mir Cerar, Desus and SD will not change this matter. This is also seen in budget 2016, 2017, not to mention these amendments, only 45 – you will not accept any! I would also like to know, Madam Secretary of State, whether in 2016, 2017 you intend to terminate or close some of the state agencies. We have over 200 of these agencies, probably those who work there, where the agency doesn't know exactly what they're doing at work, and it's important that they get paid. I wonder if you're planning on shutting down an agency or shutting it down or at least bringing together an agency, if that's what it's going to be. [[…]] One answer, I think it was provided by my colleague Bratušek, but I do not know if he was already responsible – how much more has the government of Mira Cerar increased its employment in the public administration since the takeover of power. I expect that answer. Number. And what does that mean financially? Staffing, state-owned companies. That's probably that part of the floor, where it's a great dance. Not only can it sparkle, but it's probably a pleasure to everyone. Today read in the newspaper Finance, now you can see exactly why under the management of state assets and the preparation of strategies you have advocated so that insurance must remain state-owned – because all the staff in your coalition have been employed by the Insurance Company Triglav. It is not normal that in the last 15 years no President of the Board of Insurance Triglav has completed his term of office. But more likely than that, there is the insurance law that is also on the list at this regular meeting. In short, disappointment, in particular this budget 2016-2017 is a disappointment for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and in particular disappointment for the economy and businesses.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. I did not really intend to advertise in this debate on the 2017 budget mainly because we are listening to a much similar debate, if not the same as yesterday on the 2016 budget, where we have in some ways also discussed the 2017 budget a little wider. Some of the debaters before me highlighted the problem of these amendments and the rejection of all sides of the opposition. Of course, in some way, I could say, in an artistic way, what amendments did the opposition also support, as was the practice – I think my colleague Horvat was talking about – and in this way we would show that we are listening to some opposition issues. I don't think this artistic impression is anything but hypocrisy. If we have decided, as we have done, and I have voted.—not in favour, but against these amendments—in some way, we are also imposing on individual ministers and ministers that, with the same budget as they have, that they have agreed with him, not least in the cutting of the government, we are imposing a certain great responsibility to them by these means—I said yesterday that they have always been and will always be limited—they must also implement their programmes, which they have on paper, in their heads. This is a great responsibility, this is what this entire parliament expects, and the opposition and the coalition, not just the parliament, is expected by the people who have elected us to these positions. This is the great responsibility of this government and coalition, if you want, and of course we want it, you don't want it, we take over and we stand behind it. Why is the budget the way it is? In some ways, it is necessary, not in some way, to harmonise all revenue coming into the budget and to distribute it to where it is to be given, i.e. to socially disadvantaged target groups. I hear one part of the opposition talking about the asociality of this budget, and I find it difficult to agree with that. There is no segment in the area of social and family, employment, in short, of these subtitle areas in the budget, which would cut rights to final beneficiaries, individuals, households, compared to 2015 and back. In each segment there is a movement forward, there is in some way – if you want to hear it, or if you don't want to hear it – a softening of such a familiar or uproaring ZUJF, and this is of course a step forward. Those who say that this budget is non-ambitious, even those who find it difficult to attach, perhaps might be more ambitious, maybe the revenues could be estimated more than they are, but it would be unrealistic, then you could in fact be sure already in the first quarter of the year of the rebalancing they were talking about. Perhaps – I will not say likely or likely – this balance for 2016, probably also for 2017, will be needed. It is only the circumstances on the market and in the world as they are, and it is not unusual that the balance of the budget is working, but now I think it is without reference to when the budget is not yet adopted to talk about the balance. If you ask me or Desus ask me, we would be most happy to provide pensioners, families, socially disadvantaged, unemployed people not to list all these target groups, which is the highest income, but this is simply not going to work. If we started by some of the priorities I just listed, giving, giving and just giving, then somewhere would run out. Then there would be no more; if the defence and security, the police would not come to this priority list, they would run out of culture, they'd run out of research, they'd run out of education. Thus, this budget compromises, compromises, and is likely to have every minister, each minister has given up something in his field, but has ensured those priorities of the individual department that we assess are necessary. If we just put it on one side, then we should also tax extras, overtax the real sector, which we simply cannot and cannot stifle. On the other hand, if this real sector and all those who know the truth lovingly that it is so, they produce and work added and added value, they fully relieve; then at least for a short and medium term they would not have someone to give and then, my dears, the social state would die. We can't afford that either. I think that such a budget as it is for 2017 is optimal and I am sure it will be successfully realised. Again, I regret if this is the final decision of the representatives of the local communities not to take the last offer. I'm really sorry. My proposal would have been, and it was, when I had the opportunity to speak to my mayor in Maribor: for God's sake, accept these 525, now more than is currently in the budget. Of course, all of us together, without some musculants and without some backstage play, let's give as many of these austerity measures as possible, and I don't mean austerity in terms of belt tightening, but these savings measures in the area of local communities, which the state, in cooperation with the municipalities, must implement, and in this way, we are talking about the local community, diminishing and then we will get to that optimism. If the country has succeeded, which, of course, I am happy to do, with the public-sector trade unions after a few rounds of running or negotiations, or if you want to, reach a social agreement and agreement, I believe that this can also happen in cooperation with the local community. It's not much of a party. We all come from local communities, but you are also some from Ljubljana, who have a special status and may even be the same. Of course, my performance will not be completely without pensions, not because I would like to talk again about pensions, but because pensions have been exposed. I'm just saying that as long as Desus is in the government, I don't see any fear for the pensioners, but it's possible that it's a little too narcissistic, but as long as it's what it is, and as long as it says it's in Politics 21, where pension protection obligations are set out in ZIPRO for 2016 and 2017, the funds will also be paid normally and smoothly for pensions. If the need arises, I will not prejudge if the need to prove that these funds are insufficient, but will be assured because it is legal, not to say the constitutional category, that those who have paid for 30 years and 40 years in the pension register, in the health register and who have paid the taxes in the budgets do not know from when, they have to get their pension normally paid. A slightly lower transfer expenditure from the budget to the PPIZ is foreseen in 2017, as was the case, or is the case in this year. Here we are counting on higher incomes as well or, above all, when we are talking about pensions, exclusively in the pension register, because, as we know, many works, including student work, are considered and paid for, among other things, contributions are also paid. We believe that the measures in the field of active employment policy will also mean more employment, as a result of which more revenue into the budget and in both cash registers, so that I believe that these resources will be increasingly needed. At the same time, it is also worth noting - I think I read today or yesterday, because I do not know exactly this information - that the trend or the number of unemployed has declined again. I think this one's at 110 grand. I would say that it has declined very gently, but still trends are such as, this number is decreasing, I believe that measures will also help and help in this trend of reducing the unemployed and that macroeconomic forecasts for Slovenia and the wider ones will help to raise more money for this purpose. However, I expect a lot of the so-called reserve demographic fund, as we have also written in the coalition contract, and I cannot wait for the filament on this lamp to burn and come to life in the right sense and in the long term – it will be difficult to say that already in 2016, certainly not in 2017, even difficult, but certainly in the near future, the medium-term – will bring positive results, enable the sustainability of public finances and relieve the budget in terms of providing transfers to the pension box. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for your floor. But this final debate by Ambassador Desus is very little said that our amendments are for artistic impression. [[…]] You've used that word three times, an artistic impression. Here you can see exactly how the coalition is breathing and how it thinks – that the amendments proposed by the opposition parties to the 2016 and 2017 budgets are for artistic impression only. Some of the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be read, their items listed and then each of them will come to a conclusion whether it is an artistic impression or not. I would also like to call on the distinguished secretary of state, whether she also agrees that the SDS amendments are merely for artistic impressions. For example, 150 000 euros more funds for the commission of inquiry in connection with the misuse of the banking system. Is that an artistic impression for you? Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Local Self-Government, 5 million. Spatial and other conditions for the work of the state authorities; the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure, Transport and Infrastructure, Means for Investment, Maintenance and Construction of State Roads, 150 000 Euros, 150 000 Euros, 15 million Transport and Transport Infrastructure. Are these funds for you artistic impressions, construction and maintenance of roads? It's not an artistic impression. Also, let's say, the amendment we tabled for Culture and civil society, the Art Programmes, worth €1.5 million, is not an artistic impression, even if it is a cultural programme. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to increase the programme by €5 million. The debate between coalition MPs and Members shows just how the coalition actually thinks. It is sad to say that the amendments to this budget are the opposition's artistic impressions. You've repeated that word at least four times, read the magnetogram!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday, we warned that we have before us one of the most important developmental acts of this country if I use the terminology of the coalition and the two yesterday's editorials, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. But unfortunately, the Minister of Finance wasn't here today. Unfortunately, he wasn't there. Given that we have a certain government involvement in the work of the National Assembly in the rules of procedure, such absences, when we consider the budget, are possible only in exceptional cases. That is to say, if the Minister of Finance has outstanding obligations outside the country, in the institutions of the European Union. Even if I did, I should be here, because it's probably unimaginable that the Minister of Finance, for example, German, French or any other, would be missing when we're discussing his key document all year long. There's no excuse here, there's no excuse here! I propose, Mr President, that you address the Government and the Minister with a sharp protest and ensure that the gentleman is here. The second thing is, this is an unknown talk about when we listened to the discussions of some coalition Members that the government is on the right track, that changes have begun, and economic growth has begun. Yesterday, I asked the Secretary of State, who is replacing the absent minister, who are the measures by which the Government caused economic growth. I mentioned two questions from this year, one from 11 June and the other from 20 August, in order to obtain a specification of the measures that led to economic growth. One more question I have addressed to the Government to tell me what measures have been taken to raise employment this year. Look at the answers — they are in Lotus Notees, they are in the records of the National Assembly — and read what is the Government of which you are members, and it is the coalition government that has accepted that this has happened. I can read again; nothing, no action has been written by the Government, not to raise economic growth, nor to improve the business environment, except that it remembered the bound accounts, which is actually a document or anything without any special value – it is technically nothing! [[…]] I understand that you feel unknowingly good when after the elections without doing anything, there was a 2.6% economic growth; no matter what they did, it happened! We said if you suggest economic measures, we will come on Sunday, even on Saturday, even on Saturday, if that is the case. But look, there are no such measures in this mandate. Pika. It is not in employment, nor in the field of stimulating economic growth, nor in the field of decommissioning, nor in the field of export stimulation or nothing. You've reduced your investment incentives, and that's probably what happened, almost certainly. So this praise, this boasting that you've earned in this mandate, has no real basis. If you have it, list and tell us what is the effect of the action you have taken. No problem, we'll listen, we'll apologize, whatever we do, all the other things we can, just name and say. When I asked a further question, then the government began to comment on the actions of past governments, which is logical, because after three months you can't jump from minus 5 or minus 3 to plus 2.6 without doing anything in between. This is a typical result of external factors, a typical result of part of the economic segment, industry and services and so on, not a government measure that would have helped anything. If you have different information, if you can somehow close it differently, then I would be very happy to have made a mistake and I would also continue to recommend and cultivate this hope that you are doing something, but none of it is true. Previously, the Secretary of State spoke about the previous financial perspective. That part of the funds that are not drawn from the old financial perspective can no longer be described as a perspective. It's lost, it's got to be invented, take about a month of time here and invent a new concept. Just as you invented technical barriers to the fence, you will probably also invent a concept for this unused part of European funds, which will replace this perspective differently. I must say that I am also surprised by this, I will say, by the intolerance of the coalition Members to the efforts made by the opposition in the budgets and in other acts, because there is absolutely no difference there. In fact, every amendment, every proposal we put into the legislative process as a proposal to improve a specific act, budget or law, is accompanied by some observations, with some criticism, with some underestimation, by the opposition trying to plug the wheel into bicycles and so on. Why is that? When I led, but not once, probably twice, and when we accepted with the largest coalition party, and I was in charge of these things, we accepted, and you can also check the opposition's proposals in the National Assembly. The opposition's proposals as well. Yesterday, Mr Horvat recalled an amendment that was adopted at the time and which resulted in the festive cutting of the tape of the current Prime Minister, as well as for Maribor – proposed by the Slovenian National Party – we accepted amendments for schools and I do not know what. Never in this national council has the coalition acted so exclusively to the opposition. So exclusive. Even then there was no need to please anyone with any amendment, but we did, because we know that what the Government is preparing is not absolutely saveable and accurate. If this holds true and as you say and as stated in these accompanying documents and definitions of the Government to the laws or acts that we propose, then no amendment would be entirely necessary. As far as the government is concerned, not at all, because it has its own legislative work, 30,000 officials under it and they would copy it, they would write a law that does not need any editorial work. Not only does it not need an editor, we are dealing here with fundamental corrections to government bills. Some may need to be further excluded from the decision-making process in the National Assembly. And then you who have made it through the coalition network, through the coalition process, brought it all into the National Assembly, you tell us that we are trying to make something or make it worse, from what the Government is proposing or what the coalition is proposing. See, colleague Pogačnik listed three amendments relating to one road corridor, this is road G2-106, this is Škofljica–Brod na Kolpa and there are proposed amendments for three carriageways; the roadway of Kočevlja, the bypass of Ribnica and the bypass of Veliki Lašč. It is absolutely necessary because there is no need for Mrs or Mr, Mrs Member or Mr Member from Kočev to go to the Ribnica and past the Ribnica for ten minutes because the limit is 50 and it takes for 50 kilometres to 20 hours to come to Ljubljana. It needs more from Kočev, which is close to Ljubljana, than from the farthest place in Slovenia to Ljubljana. But I'm just going to read you what the government wrote down on these proposals. Here you have the budget 2017, I will read to you because we are dealing with it, and this is how it was written: In 2017 the cost of completing IDP and OP is expected – this is for the DN, this is the State Spatial Plan – and resources would be sufficient for this purpose. The amendment is technically feasible, but the Government rejects it because it interferes with the planned obligations of the Ministry of Public Administration. Three times a very similar explanation. A very similar explanation! Look away, I don't know what this is, 2017, amendments 2, 3 and 4 from the Ministry of Infrastructure. So, the government is aware of the problem, the government estimates that this is necessary if it wants to begin the placement process in the State Spatial Plan at all. It even says that the matter is feasible and sufficient, but it is not supported because it would take 150 000 euros from the Ministry of Public Administration. At the same time, the same government, even the minister himself, has the power to redistribute 10% of his ministry's budget or the government can mix 20% of the budget left and right. Now, tell me, what's the problem here? The proposer, those who need it by road – Mrs Levičar or Mr Weber need it because they have to come by the pond in some way, it would be nice to come safely and well, or someone else. Or the one who says all this is necessary and says they don't support him. The Ministry of Public Administration will know nothing at all. Believe me, those who know the logic of budget operations or budget planning know that this is a marginal. Even if we wrote 150,000 euros ten times, this is for the Ministry of Public Administration of the Marginal. In addition to your powers, you have given unlimited powers to the Government to do practically what it wants with the budget. From this budget at the end of the year, when you receive the final bill, there will be almost nothing left; only the addresses of ministries, budget lines and figures, as regards amounts, are completely different. And now someone shows up and says that this isn't the right thing to do, and here he's handing out an hour, and I don't know how much longer he's teaching what's wrong with these suggestions. Nothing's wrong! Now there is a question for the Secretary of State or for the Minister of Finance. The EUR 150 000, which does not mean anything in the structure of the Ministry of Public Administration, is by general definition an important deviation from the planned path of public financial consolidation. Thus, in the conclusion of yesterday's debate, the Minister of Finance said the presentations when he said that the amendments should not be supported and he relied on that definition. If 150 000 euros to start the process of placing into the premises of a bond office will bring down the fiscal consolidation of the budget at 9 billion euros, then something is wrong with the state and also those who manage public finances that hope to express such a definition. See, this is something wrong, such a statement is unacceptable that 150 000 for one carousel in Kočev, Lašťa or Ribnica means an important departure from the route of public financial consolidation. Understand if anyone can! So the budget adopted by the Government is God's grace, there's no interference, it's axiom, theories or whatever you call it. The matter is untouchable. But apparently that's not the case. I propose that you also bring to the National Assembly those with whom we can even talk about what such statements mean and why these statements are such. It has never happened in this National Assembly that the Minister of Finance would say such a sentence about the budget amendments tabled. Some of you are here, experts, perhaps even longer than I am, but please look at the tapegrams of the meetings of the National Assembly, so that the Minister of Finance would recommend special caution to a coalition member when accepting or confirming an opposition amendment, and to use such a definition. This probably hasn't happened yet, and I hope it never does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. As far as your first sentence is concerned, i.e. the presence of the Minister, the Secretary of State has been equally compensated by the Rules of Procedure for the Minister, and this has nothing to do with international relations. Second, of course, is the issue of his political assessment [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u56	In this debate, the Minister could only be absent if he had international obligations or obligations in the institutions of the European Union. The fact that it is not, however, that it has more important obligations in some local community – or I do not know – may be on a visit to the Ribnica, I do not know – is not why it is not in the debate when it comes to the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for two years. There's no reason! Look at the definition and the meaningful explanation of the rules of procedure, and you will see that this is impossible. It is unacceptable, Mr President, that the custom in the National Assembly has been established that there is no one who proposes a key act from his own department in the National Assembly. I propose that you address to the Government a mercy request to allow the Minister to attend the meetings of the National Assembly and explain the concepts he used in his opening act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The President of the National Assembly has already asked the Government, with a request or request that ministers attend as many meetings as possible, but Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure, states the third indent that "at a meeting of the National Assembly, the Government may represent the Minister or the Prime Minister of the Government of the Government of the Government appointed by the Government. The one around international relations is only if the Minister and State Secretary have international obligations for the European Union, then they can also replace the head of any service with the power of the Government. That's the only part. [[…]] Here you go, Mr. Tanko. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What you are saying about the absence of a minister is acceptable only if this minister is a refugee or a migrant. But because he didn't, and because he came here yesterday to present the budget act, and then he pulled out the suitcase and left, please invite him to come here and tell us what he meant by those statements he had in his opening position. Because they are largely determining these debates, everything about the relationship to amendments, to the content, to individual chapters of the budget and so on. What does "department from the path of fiscal consolidation" mean? We are talking about 5,000 euros in some amendments. What kind of resignation is that? Yesterday we heard some other information that I was supposed to represent, I don't know, 93 or 98 million, these amendments, an increase in the deficit – indirectly. In the government's opinion, it doesn't say anything, and so on. Therefore, bring the responsible people to the National Assembly so that we can also have a suitable communication partner and an explanation of this document, which is expected to be crucial for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Of course, I have nothing to add to this because the rules of procedure are perfectly clear. The word is "ma'am mag." Lilliana Kozlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! The State budget is every time it is drawn up, the hard work of the sectoral ministries, together with the finance minister and the ministry, and finally there is some consensus, which is those priorities that will be implemented and how they will be implemented. Mag. The caterer said that the budgets were neither friendly nor targeted, but that was not the case. It's about how you see things. In fact, the budget for 2016 and 2017 is kind, with two aspects. First of all, there is no additional burden on the population, so there are no new taxes, and secondly, the economic growth that we have felt in our country, the positive effects of the budget, are distributed between different stakeholders and different groups. As regards the target orientation, particularly at the expenditure level, the Secretary of State has made it clear, and when we look at the budget, it shows what are priorities and what are the objectives. Safety comes first, there's traffic safety, health, justice and education. However, all the relevant ministers were given those priorities that were most urgent. The fact is that all that has been saved and saved in the past few years at individual ministries cannot be resolved even in the next budget of two years. This is not an obvious statement by any government in the past, they had to do so, but it must be understood that everything simply cannot be regulated in one further budget. Let me stop at security for a while. In the past, we have not been aware of its importance, and the austerity measures have affected both the police and the military and intelligence services. Without the situation created this half-year, the government was aware that system regulations were needed primarily in the police field. We know that the deadline is approaching when the police want to strike for bad equipment, wages and everything else, due to working conditions. This made the Government aware of all this and allocated resources to the police in the budget, namely index 118, which means that it has spent an additional 30 million for each year, primarily in order to remedy the current situation. In the area of defence is the index 102,66. Of course, it is not enough for all the needs that the defence has, but, as I said, it is gradually necessary to regulate it. Also in the field of intelligence. As regards the refugee problems and the costs incurred in this regard. In fact, they are unpredictable and difficult to estimate. However, negotiations are under way to obtain as many funds as possible from European funds, both migration and asylum, and it is somehow 73 million. As regards the asylum legislation mentioned. Indeed, the current legislation also provides for monetary compensation for applicants and holders of international protection. The Government has a proposal, namely three variations, whereby in the event of a large number of refugees, direct financial assistance should be reduced or completely eliminated. However, we must be aware that the money allocated to these vulnerable groups, of course, if there are many, is justified, but is in the long term intended for their easier integration. In fact, it is vulnerable groups that need a slightly different kind of help than our population may need. It is understandable, however, that in this situation there is also a need to consider reducing rights. As far as the amendments are concerned, as Mr Tanko said, we are not listening, and he says we are talking about being justified and we do not want to confirm them. It's not that we don't have a hearing, we could have an amendment, every ministry needs additional resources, but, as I said in the first place, it's a consensus agreed by the ministries on how to implement financial policy over the next two years. The talk was also about justice, which is one of the priorities. Mr Logar said that we are spending much more money on justice and that he understands this as repressive measures, how we will send people to prison because they will not obey. Not long ago, we had an extraordinary meeting convened by the opposition party due to human rights violations established by the European Court of Justice. These funds, which are intended for justice, are the result of this; this is therefore a matter of regulating the situation in prisons which have been found to be a violation of human rights and organising a probation service. Let me touch our public sector and public servants. It was said that they were financed or kept from the economy. This is a fact, they are kept everywhere from the economy, not only in Slovenia, and it is not a sin at all. At the same time, it was said that we did not foresee any measure for our economy, any effect that would make this development known in the economy that it was not an effect of the government. Let me just say a few things, thematically. It is not always about giving money directly, it is also about other measures implemented together with funding and also amending legislation. Thus, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has a number of financial support measures for the company, from start-up to different stages of development. We're talking about guarantees, subsidies, interest rates, microcredit. They have created a fund of funding worth €500 million, where companies are provided with more favourable funding for different forms of business, from operating capital to investment. A new measure called patient loans has also been introduced. These are companies that are restructured and have a good business model, are eligible for credit and can also be withdrawn for a period of up to 12 years; and also in the area of credit. Then in the field of internationalisation and support for this internalisation and foreign direct investment. This is the priority of our Ministry of Economy and a new internationalisation programme for the period up to 2020 has been defined. Many of these are intended for different areas of business at different stages of development and for different needs from basic education, information on markets, from delegations, various market research and so on, integration into global chains, value chains and so on. This is then the next area of cooperation at European Union level in international negotiations in the conclusion of free tariff agreements. Here, the Ministry is working extremely hard to help our economy. A single e-VEM point to remove these administrative obstacles is also being established in the context of removing administrative barriers, and I should say that it is also envisaged in the new financial perspective that €160,000 will be drawn annually for this purpose. It was also said that there were no measures in the area of improving the business environment, but let me say that we are introducing a so-called SME test, as well as a test of the impact of legislation on the economy and other measures, so that I do not list them here in the field of the economy, which have been adopted, so that this economy is competitive and that its growth is increasing. As far as civil servants are concerned, let me say that in the past, in the period since the austerity measures were introduced, there have been total savings of 2 billion. This is not a negligible amount and we must be aware that our public sector is an important part of our social life. We are pleased to note that the trade unions and the Government have reached an agreement that they are aware of the importance of our public sector, especially the burden they have borne so far, and that they are also aware that this burden of the public sector needs to be eased slowly. We are talking about 148 million and in this context let me say that this will also be known in these groups, such as the police and the military, when it was previously said that the most is being saved on them. Indeed, we have 8 000 police and 7,000 soldiers employed and all of these will receive all of these measures, which have been agreed and released under this agreement. At the same time, let me say that there will also be 8 000 civil servants who receive an allowance on the minimum wage on the basis of what these measures bring; their situation is said to improve as well. The fact that the unions did not all sign; indeed, this is the Confederation of Slovenian Unions, but it is not an obvious message to the Government, is that, in the context of negotiating negotiating the negotiating sides, the unions could not agree on who would participate in the negotiations, and there is no way that this obvious goes to the government, but goes to the unions themselves that have to agree on who it is. It has also been said that, together with our budget, it is not clear whether we will implement any systemic measures in any area, that there is no legislation. Here I must say that in the field of the Ministry of Public Administration it has already been adopted, we must decide on the veto, the legislation on public procurement, which is expected to bear large savings. In the final phase, there is also legislation in the field of the Public Sector Wage System Act and the Public Servants Act, which will set targets at the level of the individual body, as well as at the level of the individual, and abolish certain institutions that have now acted ineffectively and irrationally by the public administration. Of course, negotiations with trade unions will be difficult, and I believe that trade unions will also be responsiblely involved in this cooperation and will help our public sector actually become what we want it to be, and above all that it will be the fundamental carrier of our legal culture. Let me touch the local government. Local self-government is also one of our great gains and the fact that we have such a large number of municipalities has helped to develop our local level evenly in all areas. But times change. The fact is, if the country is saving, it must also save local self-government, and I do not mean that, and I have no intention of talking about the need to abolish the municipalities, I am talking about the need to look for reserves within the local communities themselves. The fact is that they are different, the fact is that some are much more cost-effective than others, but certainly there is still a lot of room for manoeuvre in the area of their interlinkages both with regard to municipal administrations and other logistics services, of course also public institutions, public economic services and the like, most of all in the area of substantive integration, because this would be the added value that would also give to local communities and the local population much more. Here, perhaps in the government’s defense or this — I do not understand that the congregations did not accept it during the negotiation phase. Let me say that Namreč was an eyewitness that this agreement between the unions and the government would be an additional burden for the congregations. [[…]] Let me say that at a time when employment fell by 8% in the state administration, local self-government increased by 9%. It was said, or their explanation, that this is for the realisation of European projects and the use of European funds and that these are temporary employment, so that local self-government in this area is expected to reduce this share. Let me conclude by stressing once again that things are moving positively, but it is not possible to resolve everything that has accumulated in one budget period, and it takes some time to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. It was exposed to something that was obviously not properly understood or heard as it was said. This is the area of wage agreement or union agreement. We are not talking about who is to blame for the fact that unions were not able to agree on each other, but rather about the fact that they are critical to the agreement of the sectors currently most exposed. It was made clear that the Minister had announced that this was a budget that was safe. If this were true, then surely the Minister should take this more into account in the negotiations. We know that the scope of the extra burden work is still limited, and it is these areas, which are so critical today, that we should get more here. We wanted to solve some things with the proposed amendment, but you rejected it in the coalition, and before that we were able to explain it at all. These are facts, and this is what seems unacceptable to me at a given time, and it is therefore important to point out that there are no misunderstandings from this point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Magi also applied to the debate. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I believe it is difficult to draw up a budget so that the wolf will be full and the goat will be whole, because we know that there is a great deal of need. Much work is needed, much coordination and negotiation, but I think that the government coalition should also take into account the ideas and needs of the territory seen by the opposition Members and also confirm some amendment tabled by the opposition Members. I come alone from Goriski. In our Group of Members, we have tabled an amendment to provide the means to arrange two intersections, the intersection of the Trikraco Cross in Ajševica and the intersection at the Hrast in Kromberk. In fact, these two intersections lie on a regional road, which is an invasion of Novo Gorica and at the same time the main route for the direction of the Soča valley and Gorički hills. There is very much traffic here, and redesigning these two crossings would increase the flow of both freight and passenger traffic. We have proposed that €370,000 be transferred from the payment line to the European Union to the Ministry of Finance. There we wrote: "The European Union's budget is subject to several supplements each year, which usually reduce the required level of payments by Member States by the end of the year. In the light of the experience of the past years, it is possible to expect that, on this item, Payment of contributions to the budget of the European Union will be able to reduce slightly the level of the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia. If this does not happen, the Minister of Finance still has a chance within his 10% to get these 370,000 euros from another item." I therefore appeal to all Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I find there's still a desire to discuss, so I'm asking you to apply. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl, followed by Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Mr Andrej Šircelj. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The budget for 2017 is quite a bit, but I would say that in a very small part, more investment-oriented than in 2016, when the actual investment in Slovenia is really relatively small and thus extremely little work for the economy. However, in 2017, I miss the greater impact in numbers and also in the work of the financial perspective 2014-2020. In fact, 2017 is the time when we have already spent half of the financial perspective 2014-2020, and this reflection of this financial perspective is extremely small, it is not quite noticeable. Yesterday, I listened to the Secretary of State's reply that it is not so much intended for basic infrastructure, but that now it is more intended to draw on European funds for soft content. I don't know, but I don't know soft investment. I'm a builder, so I know what a concrete 30 brand is. I'm cariculating. This is said to be a bit of a blow to that corner of the public sector again. It is so critical of me that the impact of the financial perspective in the investment work is also very painful in the 2017 budget. That is why we have drafted amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, particularly those amendments in infrastructure work that are absolutely in favour of the economy. We look not so much for the local environment or for other interests, but only for the benefit of the economy. Thus, in the Republic of Slovenia Directorate, we have dedicated an increase of 15 million because we have proposed those sections, those projects that help, as I have said, the economy, if I take just in the field of tourism those sections leading to certain tourist centres that are quite visited, both in the direction of the Upper Savina Valley, where we propose a long-planned and placed in the state budget of the Luča Oblast, whose investment is of course from year away. This is happening, I think, for seven, eight years now, so we suggest that this rim of Light, which is really a narrow throat for the Upper Savinja Valley, finally begins to build. It is also against the ski center of Golta, the Mozire-Jekovec section, because it is an important section that affects the development of tourism in this part. Similarly, a major obstacle is also the main road in the section, if I say, from Celje to Vransko – I am talking about the old highway – whenever there is a stopper, a deadlock, a carambola, in fact all traffic in this section between Celje and Vransko is fully maintained. Here I propose the arrangement of the crossings on the roadway, the arrangement of the centre, the traffic direction in Šempetr in the Savina Valley, and thus the closure of the road work that is caused at each time. For a number of years, 18 congregations have taken the initiative to prepare for the construction of the connecting bridge across the Drava stream between the Municipality of Starša and the Municipality of Duplek and the municipality of Ptuj. We know that the Zlatoličje hydroelectric power plant was built there and that at the time when the building permit was issued, it was a condition for the construction of the bridge. This bridge after many years of this municipality has not yet been awaited, so here I propose that the basic procedure for building this bridge be actually initiated, as we suggest, I would say, I am fighting 150 000 euros to start this project and to shorten the journey in both directions by 40 kilometers. You can imagine how much savings we can create in the economy, in all the farms that have land on the one hand or on the other; in short, it is an extremely important bridge that is not actually at the beginning. We are proposing only the initial steps for this matter to begin. Furthermore, exclusively to help the economy in the Shale region and the Koroski work. I'm talking about the Polzel-Velenje connecting road. We know that the regional road Šentrupert–V Veljenje is one of the most burdened in Slovenia, because all the economy of the Silesian and Koro region is fueled by this road. The connecting road Polzela-Velenje is of the utmost importance not to say how crucial it will be when the third development axis begins to be built. Before the beginning of the third development axis, it is necessary to reconstruct this leg and prepare it to take over all the traffic that will be difficult in other locations during construction. These spare sections and connecting routes need to be considered today. We therefore propose that this section be placed in the 2017 budget. Flood safety. This is the area where very poor financial resources are allocated to the budget. He would point out an important section along the Savinja River, the section of Ločica near Savinja v Letus, where a national spatial plan for the protection and management of the Savanja River is drawn up on this section. Let me stress that on both shores, on the left and right, the complete urbanization of settlements has already been built and, at the time of the increase in the amount of rainfall, Savinja on this section poses an extremely serious threat to all these settlements near Savinja. But at the time of the flood, I'd say, for the element, at this section, it's going to be a suspension of maintenance at this section. The embankments are long and are in real or physical condition today about 20 to 30% of these embankments, while the rest of the protective embankments have already been carried away by the River Pig. This means that this will not be an element, this will be the abandonment of the owner's maintenance. But the owner knows who he is – the country. In this case, as I said, it will not be an element, but a suspension of the basic maintenance task. And what is the consequence of this – the local communities can bring an action against the owner on this basis, it is said, to the Ministry of Environment and Space. I therefore call on the Ministry of Environment and Space to seriously study this section, so that there will be no worse consequences in this section. These are very serious matters, so let them take this project seriously. This is a well-intentioned, constructive recommendation not to do more damage than the flood itself will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have to explain my performance, namely the word syntagmo artistic impression. For the first time that we understand each other, I did not say that any amendments to the opposition, including the SDS, of course, are prepared and invested because of the artistic impression, I probably misspoke. I wanted to say that it would not be right for the coalition to release one or two amendments due to artistic impressions to see that we are also giving the opposition some option of codecision and influence and respect them. That would seem really hypocritical to me. I hope that I have now been very, very clear and very precise. Of course, I respect every amendment that anyone, any political option or individual makes. If I am completely honest and I see no reason not to be, I would also like, not a million of them for the social field, but for the field of employment, not least, that some road or sidewalk in or near Maribor should be further done. In some ways, however, this end of Slovenia, which needs this positive discrimination, is also positively discriminated against. However, I also said, and this was my point, that the ministerial team, the government has decided on such a cut, the ministers responsible for the use of these budgetary resources, to carry out budgetary tasks, i.e. their tasks, their programmes in the individual sector, have taken on a great deal of responsibility, and they will also have to put accounts ahead of all of us for their work. I believe that, above all, they will be successful about their work, with limited resources, of course. Just one more sentence, because we did not really touch each other, was mentioned several times – pension reform. Changes in the law in the area of pension, disability insurance were adopted some time ago. The first positive effects appear, we can be happy to do so, but here we do not have to stay cross-handed and do nothing in this area. The White Paper is being prepared, if my data are correct, I believe that, at the end of next year, you will begin to talk about this white book, which will also be the basis, the platform for – I find it difficult to say – because I am very allergic to the expression of reform – for some new additions, changes, stronger, larger in the area of pension, disability insurance, which, as we all know, would last somewhere until 2020, and then some changes will have to be made. I'm sure that's what you're doing. However, these are activities which are not directly or indirectly linked to the adoption and implementation of budgets for 2016 and 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have heard several times in this Chamber that this budget on the expenditure side is under-social. This is a possible view, although I think that numbers and individual items can be viewed differently. Of course, the funds for unemployment are falling logically. Umar predicts that in 2016 there will be 5 thousand fewer unemployed, and in 2017 there will be 11 thousand fewer, which is of course exhilarating. It is logical, however, that this should be followed by a reduction in compensation for these persons. Of course, there are still many unemployed people, and the problem is the structure of these unemployed people, because too much is covered by older people, over 55 years of age, who are long-term unemployed, and thank God the proportion of young people who are unemployed has gradually begun to decline. The measures taken by the active employment and employment policy of these categories of persons are also designed to encourage young people to become more easily employed and older than 55 years of age. In this way, we share 1.4 million more annually for these active employment policy measures, together with European funds, and with the European Social Fund, we will be able to draw on 30 million more annually. In this way, these unemployment structures will be able to maintain their skills and competences and develop them further, thus making them more competitive in the labour market and, of course, making it easier to provide for their own earnings and the survival of their families. Legislation or austerity measures in the family and social field are also being released. 3 000 200 more schooling children will be eligible for scholarships. In the area of the child supplement, however, we are partially releasing austerity measures so that in the fifth and sixth income classes these amounts will increase by 10% for the child supplement. In this way, let us take care of the medium layer that was most affected when the austerity measures were introduced. Of course, in this package, it is also very important to raise the minimum income that affects the level of monetary social assistance and the security allowance, which is now increasing to EUR 288, which was the amount that was in force in the legislation before the introduction of austerity measures with the ZUJF. On this account, 22.4 million more resources will be used at the annual level. In addition, I would also mention that vacancies are also being released in the work centres, which was indeed necessary, as there were too many waiting people who did not get the opportunity to manage, work and protection under special conditions. It is true that in this way, by releasing 100 seats for really needed users we release barely 22% of those waiting, but this is a step in the right direction. Funding for the social inclusion of persons with disabilities is also released by 13%. I would also like to point out that social policy remains so that some prices are maintained for obtaining aid, including for example for family benefits, where the price remains 64% of the net income per family member. This is mainly the case with a large family allowance and assistance at the birth of a child. This is, in some ways, logical for limited resources to be targeted towards those groups and families that are actually needed. I believe that this entry price, this limit is acceptable enough, because 64% of net income means that they do not get the help of a family where four members have more than EUR 2 000 570 and three members have more than EUR 930 in the family. In this way, we must make sure that the funds targeted are truly targeted and that they also have a greater impact in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! In recent discussions, it is on the basis of the provision of a representative of the Government, Mrs Vraničar Erman, State Secretary, as well as some Members, that we will create an environment for people with the 2016 and 2017 budget, because there will be no new burdens and there will be no new burdens. I think it's a matter of considerableness or ignorance, or error, or memory loss, or seeing what's coming. In fact, the population and people in Slovenia have been additionally taxed since the government of Mira Cerar when they pay the bills for financial services. This tax increased from 6,5 % to 8,5 %. That's what people pay for. In the final stage, the tax is transferred, if you want, from the stage to the stage and in price paid by people. This is not paid by financial institutions. In fact, they're taxing the financial institution, the one they're taking from people. Similarly, insurance services, if insured, will, of course, be subject to additional taxation, and this government has increased the tax from 6.5 to 8.5 %. Today we will also consider amendments to the value added tax legislation – or perhaps tomorrow morning, whatever this meeting will be held – where two years ago the biggest crisis has been decided to increase the value added tax rate from 20 to 22. Temporarily. This has already been discussed in the Committee on Finance, also between the former prime minister and the current State Secretary, whether it is temporary or not and so on and what we have reported to Europe, but the fact is that these people, who you say will live in a friendly tax environment, were then further taxed and will now continue to be taxed, as the temporary measure will change into a permanent, more taxed and, of course, those with the least income; those who have more income are much more than those who have that nature of value added tax and this value added tax is collected invisibly. When people think they buy bread, they don't actually know that they pay taxes; or any other good or service when they pay doesn't know that at the same time, they pay the value added tax to the service. This is not friendly to people if you increase the rate of value added tax. For good! It is not friendly to people if we have more expensive gas prices than in neighbouring countries, for example, they pay the price of gasoline, for example, to Austrians who on average have higher revenues. That's not nice. Nor is it nice to stop the adjustment of the income scale and the cost of living, the increase in the cost of living, by means of an income measure. That's not nice to people because they'll always pay more taxes. That's why it's about this kindness, I hope you don't think here cynically that this tax system is more friendly. If we look at companies, it is also not good for businesses to halve their investment incentives, to halve their R & D facilities, to abolish the benefits for new employees and so on. This is about the kindness of the tax system and the kindness of this government to people. In short, I'm sorry, I can't join this opinion, but I'm surprised that the increased taxation here is being shown as friendly. You know, it seems pretty unfair to people, and above all, I think that people can – I don't know how much they take seriously, but I think they need to be respected so much that if taxes are already increasing for people and businesses, they should also be told. This is certainly better than not being told and then being collected in hidden ways. Then the following questions that appear here and which was also answered by the State Secretary are whether the new taxes are so to say, or higher taxes – that they are not new taxes, higher taxes – which will arise in the field of amendments to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons and the Income Act, which will be included in the budget for 2017. About half an hour ago, I heard the answer that I didn't. Under the Public Finance Act, all regulations must be adopted in the National Assembly before the budget. Here we are predicting some new taxes or forecasting changes in legislation and this is not a matter of tax restructuring, this is not a legal basis, this is not a legal term, this is not a legal term, we can talk about this in colleges or seminars, but we cannot in the law on longer restructuring, which means that you will take away one taxpayer to give something to another. It's an economic concept, and we can't talk about it here. But I have always argued yesterday that this budget is not in line with the Public Finance Act, which stipulates that all rules affecting the budget must be adopted in advance. And this answer just now confirms that this is not the case. Speaking of the fact that this budget is not strategically oriented, I must also say what has now been said by the coalition Members to carry out tests at the Ministry of Economic Development, to reduce administrative obstacles, to establish working groups on pensions, to set up a health working group, to set up a work group on real estate taxes and so on. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is no result from the working groups, and this result should be clear and visible when the budget is adopted for 2016 and 2017. These working groups will be able to work for months and years, but, look, it's nothing. When you don't know what to do, when you don't know if you'd do anything because they're so different opinions or because you don't know what you want to do, you start a working group or a commission or something. These are tested prescriptions, and I think Churchill's already started with them and someone else is before him. In short, through all systems, one and the same systems are simply drawn, you don't know what, let's give one commission, or it will detect and grind for the next six months or one year. Look, moments and times are such that they call for decisions. Not the establishment of working groups, but decisions! I can't agree with that. In short, the establishment of working groups will not affect more employment, nor the larger gross social product, nor the better lives of people, except perhaps those who will be in these working groups and will receive any more fees. Also in the field of health, the Minister of Health said in spring that health reform would be in September this year. That's what she said on the board, that's what she said in the National Assembly. It's nothing. We probably have another working group. Speaking of European funds. It's not just projects. It is true that a project may be delayed, but the biggest problem is that the Government has not prepared the key programming documents and all the necessary procedures for the implementation of cohesion projects. The government has not prepared procedures to verify them in Brussels! As a result, these projects cannot begin at all and we will therefore wait until mid-2016 and then it is already the first control in 2018 and if not done by then cohesion will be lost. The problem is that the Government has not done its job in this area and that is why all the resources are now at the service of the Government for Cohesion Policy and will then simply mix and go to individual ministries. But the problem is that the government hasn't done its homework and that the government has a special minister to do it, that's the main problem. That's how I'm worried about this budget from that point of view. Even if there are no systemic measures, none of the systemic measures have been announced. Also, as regards what has already been done and what has not been done, even in the field of governance, apart from testing various projects and so on, they will bring nothing by themselves and it would be really good not only because of the budget, but that this government, in fact, will not say that it is starting to work, but that it does something; that it will make one result of itself. I do not think that this is possible at this point and that this budget reflects the actual work or work or efficiency of this government. This is certainly why such a budget, which is not, after all, agreed with the municipalities where we do not have a fourth cash register here in the municipal treasury, where we do not have cash and data on the Institute of Health Insurance, the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance and so on – see, this cannot be supported from a professional point of view, such a budget is not supported. The government should come with the program, tell it to tell people, but I'm a realistic route, not only is the tax system friendly if they tax someone more. This is not the kindliness of the tax system and the most taxed people.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Ms Mag, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much. There are some questions left to answer. First, as far as pensions are concerned, pension coordination in 2017. The Law on the implementation of the budget in the case of public financial needs extends to the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance and the Proposal for a Law on the Enforcement of Budgets interferes with the system of coordination of pensions for 2016, which means that for 2017 a mechanism will be established as established under the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. It is also irrelevant to say that the proposed financial plan of the Institute for 2017, as in the financial plan for 2016, provides that Kad or his legal successor will provide EUR 50 million in funding in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act, which clearly states that these funds are used primarily for the coordination of pensions. With regard to tax debt; with measures that have the greatest impact on the payment of tax debt or tax enforcement, that is, on the basis of oral or telephone and written reminders and on the basis of the decisions issued on tax enforcement, it has been paid — these are the decisions on tax enforcement of money on invoices or paid income — which was paid, I have data only for 2014, not for 2015, the amount of EUR 197 and the payment of a good EUR 509 million in terms of tax liabilities and an additional 27.8 million other liabilities that are recovered under the Tax Procedure Act by the Financial Administration. With regard to the possible termination or merger of state agencies, I can say that an analysis is currently ongoing of the functioning of individual agencies within the power of the Government or the State in order to harmonise or regulate their operations in accordance with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. In this context, an analysis of the possible termination or merger of individual agencies is also ongoing. If I only mention the agencies that are within our ministry's jurisdiction. Discussions are particularly intensive with us on the possibility of pooling supervisors of the financial system, i.e. the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Securities Market Agency and the Bank of Slovenia, but we need to be careful here, so that this will be a longer process. With regard to the apparent increase in tax obligations, I should point out that the question of indexation or non-indexation of tax scales or amounts is a matter that has not been established by this government, but is not an absolute prohibition of indexation, but only a restriction that until inflation reaches a certain extent or a certain amount of time that coordination does not take place. However, coordination is possible or in any case possible, but there is no automaticity, as it was by the end of 2013. On other tax issues, I'm sure we can say more when the laws are filed. Once again, in our opinion, the laws which constitute the first measures to redistribute tax obligations do not constitute an integral part of the budget package and are therefore prepared in a separate package. Finally, in the event that Mr Širtzl's thesis is strictly followed, the National Assembly should adopt all laws having any financial impact at the same time as the State budget, not throughout the year, as is actually the case. There is also a question regarding the number of employees. In this regard, there are two methodologies by which the number of employees in the public sector is measured. One methodology is considered by individual employees, which is according to the Regulation on the method of drawing up indirect user plans of the budget and the methodology for monitoring their implementation. I have data under this methodology from 1 July 2014 to 1. Ten. 2015 and following this methodology, the number of employees increased by about 4 thousand, of which 2 000 700 are financed by public funds and a thousand 300 are financed by non-disclosure funds. Of these 2 000 700, financed from public funds, there are thousands financed from the budget of the municipalities and thousands of 300 funded from the state budget. Most of this increase is at the expense of education or education. However, I must point out that this methodology, for example in the case of the replacement of one employee with another employee, counts two employees and not just one employee. Another methodology that counts the number of employees on the basis of the conversion of the number of hours – i.e. one employed 8 hours – shows that between September 2014 and August 2015, the latest data available to me were 201 less employed in the public sector in August 2015 than in September 2014. The increase is reflected in the area of health, social protection, here is the largest deviation up and the most reduction is in government services and ministries and bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Marko Pogačnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec for her, Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u76	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, I don't think Brussels is as positive about the budget as you wanted to present it. I will now read you this latest information, which appeared in the Finances magazine: Also, Brussels over Marble, the country spends too much and: The Commission in its 2016 Slovenian budget assessment warns that a small risk can become a great risk. This report by the European Commission was published today. What are the main comments now? That is, that Slovenia has not reduced the structural deficit. On the contrary, Slovenia notes in particular that it has difficulties in correcting the structural deficit. In line with the recommendations, the structural deficit between 2013 and 2015 should be reduced by 1.7 percentage points of GDP and in fact did the opposite and increased by 0.8 percentage points of GDP. The European Commission notes that Slovenia has failed to make use of the low-cost debt to reduce funding costs, but has in particular committed itself further. This will cost 3% of GDP financing and will decrease slightly in 2016 only relatively due to economic growth. At the same time, they add in Brussels that public debt did not increase significantly last year, but it is a refinancing issue, and therefore they expect Slovenia's indebtedness to be aligned with the plans in 2016. The Commission estimates that the government deficit has reduced by 2.4% of GDP. Based on very optimistic assumptions – economic growth and domestic final consumption. Slovenian payments to the budget of the European Union will also be higher than the one foreseen by the State in the budget. It does not include the risks covered by the budget, namely, the Commission draws attention to the costs of the refugee crisis – what we have already stressed several times – and to the negotiations with the trade unions. At the time Brussels was looking at this issue, negotiations with trade unions were not yet completed, which means that these assumptions are significantly higher. In this part, the unions have survived significantly more. In addition, the Commission notes that DUTB's debt and its slower cashing up of investments will also have a greater impact on public finances than Slovenia foresees in the 2016 budget plan. Now I want your comment on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The Order would respond to the words of the coalition MP. In view of how good the country is or how well the budget is drawn up in the field of social transfers. It is true that social transfers are increasing and it is necessary to know that the Government is increasing or prolonging the austerity measures that have been recorded in the ZUJF, the so-called ZUJF, which they always like to criticise. It should be said that all those conditions in the field of State grants and child allowances are being extended and that the conditions for compliance are also increasing, so when is the time to stop saving. Indeed, state scholarships have now been said to relax when economic growth is 2.5% of GDP. They shall then be released for the 6th, 7th and 8th grades of the State grant. Well, the government is now extending this condition while adding the condition that the growth in the level of activity in the age group should be 1.3 percentage points. Thus, such conditions as the Government now lays down in the new Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds - probably this law will be adopted as far as I have seen on the Committee - this means that these conditions will never be met for state scholarships in the 6th class and the 7th and 8th grades. Indeed, this activity in the age group from 20 to 64 was 1.3 percentage points only in 2003). So to say how good the countries are, it is also necessary to make sense, or also to say, what conditions for those income classes up to 6 you are applying and that for those who are most socially needed, from 1st to 5th grade, nothing will change: there will be no higher child allowances, there will be no additional state scholarships. At the same time, it must be said that the country's thinking next year is to save 9.82 million euros on state scholarships and 16.2 million euros on children's allowances. This is a total of EUR 26.02 million, as the Government has also written in its interpretation of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. That's what this is about. As far as health reform is concerned, when you claim in the coalition that health reform is in sight, it will bring about improvements in the health system. You can read that only proposals for new contributions from the Ministry of Health have remained of this tax reform, with a 20% higher rate of contribution for pensioners planned, 3% higher compulsory insurance premium, a new health tax of 2%. If this is a health reform for you, then I believe that people will just ask you after your health. As for the amendments, which have already been marked as unconstitutional today, I must say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have also made an amendment for the promotion in the field or in the State grant and scholarships for the talented, because we know what happened to the scholarships, what happened to the project on deficit scholarships, that you actually had an invitation to tender until the use of the funds and that those who started the tender at 9 a.m. were actually too late. With such and similar actions, you only help people to say that you're actually making a fool of them. The next thing is the infrastructure amendments already discussed by colleague Žnidar. These are not beautiful corrections either, but you are obviously unaware of the importance of infrastructure, infrastructure development in our country in the coalition, so we have tabled these amendments in the opposition and in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I must point out that in these amendments there is also a state road which, in the event of accidents on the Ljubljana–Maribor motorway, is in such a state that it is no longer in transport, since this year, due to repairs on the railway infrastructure, the state used this road, namely the Dramalje–Loča-Dramlje-Ponikva-Loča route, and has so destroyed the road that it is essentially completely non-transportable in one part. Now, the state in the budget behaves as if it did not destroy this road. I suggest that at least those of you from this region support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I have one matter to demarcate first, which I think has been repeated several times before, which is the last thing Mr Shircelj said, because I think it has happened so many times before, that it can happen, that someone else will think it is true, and I think it is wrong. As far as European funds or SVRK are concerned, how is this? The fact is that – and Mr Šircelj also sat on the Committee on Finance – we have recently adopted amended legislation or certain provisions in articles that have actually recognised or regulated this new concept of allocation of European funds, which assumes that these funds can be allocated – not as they were once, when the cut was first made, everyone was given this money, and then we started to think about what we are going to do with it, but by somehow stopping at the SVR and then moving on. This is also why the budget is so closed this year, which is why we have already prepared provisions in the legislation that allow us to redistribute these funds. In order to delay or delay the Government by drawing up acts that will allow funds to be drawn up or used from another perspective, it may be possible to make them faster, but it certainly does not. That's the first thing. Another thing about the European Commission's report, which we have been familiar with today, we have received it, also here Mr Pogačnik mentioned it in certain parts; but it is not just certain parts, it is a number of parts. I think the first part, which is somehow crucial, and the first message to be given, is as follows: Slovenia has appropriately prepared the budget plan for 2016. A key part – if I repeat it again, because it is necessary to repeat those things that hold, in order to remember what it holds, not what it does not hold – is: Slovenia has properly prepared the budget plan for 2016. It is planned that this year we will come out of the surplus deficit process, which means that positions are improving for us, we will be less under scrutiny and so on, we have a little more room for manoeuvre. For 2016, it also states that the budget, the proposal, is largely in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact, which is also crucial. True, but here I am joining some of Mr Pogačnik's more limited scope, we have very little room for manoeuvre, that is a fact, we are very close, we will have to continue with reforms and risk management will have to be managed. The risks are very different, some of them we've heard here, talked about migrants, for example. On this point, I think the Minister of Finance has already said what he is doing in this regard, as far as European funds are concerned, including this in deficits and so on. Some of the risks are also then what we gave are called structural deficits and so on. We'll just have to keep working on that. However, if I repeat this third time, Slovenia has prepared a budget plan for 2016 accordingly. This is the European Commission report that came today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničar Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the evaluation of the European Commission, it is essential to emphasise essentially two. The European Commission estimates that this year's deficit will reach 2.9% of GDP, which is also our forecast or our target, and thus in fact confirms the implementation of this year's budget. As regards the budget or draft budget for 2016, the European Commission notes that the draft budgetary plan is adequately prepared and is largely in line with the requirements of the Growth and Stability Pact. Where we diverge with the European Commission or disagree with the European Commission in terms of achieving structural effort or reducing structural deficits, this is the calculation of the production gap compared to our calculations and, on the other hand, European calculations. This is another open question that will be addressed in the next consideration of this document or this response, the European Commission's response. It remains undeniable, however, that we must continue with the planned measures in both fiscal and other structural reforms and that there is no room for hesitation or delay, which will also require a lot of attention in the coming period. Maybe just a few more comparisons. Today, the Commission has not issued an assessment only for Slovenia, most or five countries with relevant drafts, as well as Slovenia are assessed by Belgium, Latvia, Malta and Finland, the risk of inadequacy applies to three important countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u84	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, I propose that this assessment by the European Commission, Members and Members be made known before we vote on the 2016 and 2017 budget and that the Government ensure that this report is received by both members of the opposition and the coalition. This is my proposal, before the 2016 and 2017 budget votes. I think that would be fair, because now someone can explain it like that, someone can explain it differently. I suggest because it makes sense that we can all read this assessment. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, I've made my procedural proposal. [[…]] There's been a lot of publicity, even in the media. However, I think it is unfair, unfair of this government to tell Members and Members about the European Commission's report on the two most important documents for the country in 2016 and 2017: Read it in Finance. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, you said they were publicized. Make sure they get on the bench and we get this report. However, as it now looks, the European Commission also estimates that you are spending too much money, which we are always reminding us of. I'm particularly interested in this union deal. When the case was sent to Brussels when the European Commission made that assessment, was the last agreement with the unions already known or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I must say that this was not exactly a procedural proposal. The government has taken note, and if it provides material, we will also distribute it in the National Assembly. Does anyone else want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the General Part of the supplementary draft budget will be held within half an hour following the end of the 37th item of the agenda, in accordance with the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the Special Part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving to the budget user 1211, the National Assembly, and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the activities of the National Assembly and the amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1611, Ministry of Finance, and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Financial Alignment to the municipalities and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1811, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and to the debate on the proposed amendment to this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for development cooperation and international assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and to the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and to the debate on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Climate change adaptation and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme for rural development and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure, and to the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the 5 amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2550, the Ministry of Environment and Space, and to a discussion on the amendments tabled in this budget user. First, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2551, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, and to a discussion on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Monitoring the state of the environment and hydrological activity and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2611, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting to the debate the Sub-programme Training and Education and the Amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting forward a sub-programme of the Fellowship and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2613, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme on labour regulation and supervision and on labour market services and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2711, Ministry of Health, and to the debate on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Investments at the primary level and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude this debate. I am also putting into discussion the Sub-programme Investment Investments at the secondary and tertiary level and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 3330, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme for young researchers, mobility and incentives to the best researchers and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the activities of higher education and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport infrastructure and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 3340, Ministry of Culture, and to the debate on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Joint Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude this debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Arts Programmes and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude this debate. We are moving to the budget user 3341, the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Editing the system and supporting activities in the field of archiving and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget will be held within half an hour following the adjournment of the 37th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude this debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held within half an hour following the end of the 37th item of the agenda, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS TO THE SOCIAL PROTECTION PROVIDED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Before you is the first in the package of laws of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities related to the adoption of budgets for 2016 and 2017, which at least partially release austerity measures. This is the Social Security Benefits Act, which sets out the basic amount of the minimum income and is the basis for the calculation of the monetary social assistance and the protective allowance. A major change in the law is just raising the minimum income to 288,81 euros. In doing so, we want to prevent the deterioration of the social situation of the weak who are entitled to financial social assistance or a social security allowance and to preserve their social security. In 2012, the Additional Intervention Measures Act and the ZUJF fixed the basic amount of the minimum income of €260 and tied it to a year after the economic growth will exceed 2%. And now this condition has been met. That's how it's gonna be with 1. 1. 2016 minimum income raised from the current 270.82 euros to 288.81 euros. This means an additional €18 for an individual receiving financial social assistance. It is important to stress, however, that at the same time an equivalent scale is being changed, which determines how much of the minimum income is to be paid to other family members. For if only minimal income were raised and the scale remained the same, families would be at a disadvantage, and we did not want to let that happen. Let me just give you an example: a single parent family with two children would be entitled to even a few euros less financial social assistance than is justified today at the new minimum income level of EUR 288,81 while the current equivalent scale is being used. By using the new system scale, this family will receive about €30 a month more money than it receives today. Dear Members and Members! With the adoption of this law, the amount of minimum income will be placed at the systemic level. In accordance with the social agreement concluded this year by the social partners, we will recalculate the minimum personal income next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u87	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much, President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! At its 21st meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft law amending the Law on Social Protection Benefits submitted by the Government to the Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided, at its meeting, that the draft law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits should be considered on an urgent basis. The committee was attended by the competent ministry and the public concerned. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had comments on 4. and Article 5 of the Act, which have been taken into account by the proposal of the coalition amendments. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by the Chairman of this Committee, Mr Peter Požun. The Council of State supports the proposed measures, the Commission supports the proposed amendments to the law as it improves the social situation of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and the protection allowance by applying a system-wide fixed amount of minimum income on which the exercise of all rights under the law under consideration depends. In the debate itself or at the meeting, it was pointed out by the proposer or the date on which the draft law allows for the application of the basic amount of the minimum income in full amount, i.e. EUR 288,81 from 1 January 2016 onwards, in the amount set out in the Systemic Law on Social Security at the time of its adoption. In the meantime, the amount of minimum income was fixed at €260 by the end of the year on the basis of the provisions of the Additional Intervention Measures Act and the Public Finance Balance Act. [[Incomprehensible]] The debate that took place on Article 1 of the bill, and also on articles that follow, of course, raised the view that it was not really about raising funds, because it was not really both of those rights, but just about returning to the level of rights that had already been acquired. Some discussers felt that, irrespective of all this amount of aid, it was still too small. Poverty with such so-called fragments will not be stopped, the amount should certainly be higher. The minister stressed the need to look at the whole, not just pieces of the whole, but the fact is that this is actually a practical raise. We have the assurance that, in accordance with the Social Agreement, the minimum personal income will be recalculated or raised next year. After discussion, the Committee adopted the coalition amendments to the fourth and fifth articles and also voted and voted on all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for this law is also an integral part of the report you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u89	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Erika Dekleva for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u90	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! At the November meeting of the National Assembly, together with the consideration of the state budget for 2016 and 2017, we will also consider four labour market, family and social protection laws directly related to the implementation of the budget. The first one we have on the agenda is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits, which introduces a minimum full income as foreseen in the System Law in 2010, which means an increase from the current €270.82 to the €288.81 legally foreseen and a new equivalent scale for monetary assistance and a security allowance. In the previous discussions on basic minimum income, there has been a great deal of talk on the appropriateness of the amount of minimum income and the need for a new calculation of the cost of living. The amount of €288 is low, for a wide range of reasons, to meet minimum living needs. We agree that a new one should be set to reflect a more realistic level of living costs, as the last amount of personal minimum income would be calculated in 2009. However, the amount of the minimum wage, which currently amounts to EUR 561.46, or EUR 604.35, should also be highlighted and the basic amount of the minimum income depends. Unfortunately, these are the amounts that our system still holds, but we must also remember the promise of a social agreement, according to which the minimum income should be re-coordinated with the new calculation of the minimum cost of living in the coming year. As already mentioned above, one of the more important solutions to the bill proposal is the introduction of a new equivalent scale, which will, in particular, enable families of recipients of cash aid and a protection allowance to improve the social situation. Single-parent families with two children will be able to benefit from €814 of monetary assistance in accordance with the proposal for a law and a new equivalent scale, which is more than currently €29. Two-parent families with two children will also be eligible for up to €836 in cash aid or more than €24 at present. In doing so, we must not forget the single persons entitled to a protective allowance, which, according to the new proposal for a law and a new scale – taking into account the price of €470 and the hypothetical case of a person receiving €400 pension – can also benefit up to €70 of a protection allowance instead of €50, as envisaged if the statutory system scale were to be in force. Many times it has been heard that new jobs are the best way out of the crisis, poverty and social exclusion. True, but right now we want to help the most vulnerable, those to whom financial social assistance should only mean a temporary solution. The draft law under consideration deals with only one segment of aid intended for recipients of social transfers. Next, we will consider other laws that cumulatively improve the social situation of families, especially recipients of children's allowance and state scholarships, as well as long-term unemployed, over 55 years of age. We will support the proposal for a new Law on Social Security Benefits in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u91	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u92	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act. The reasons for support stem from the provisions of the law which partially improve the social situation of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and the protection allowance on which the exercise of all rights under the law under consideration depends. The aim of the proposed amendments to the law is to establish a new equivalent scale for State aid, so that from 1 January 2016 the amount of the minimum income of 288,81 euros shall apply. At the same time, this increases the protective supplement. In fact, it is true that none of the beneficiaries will be at a disadvantage, but we must be aware that these minimum increases will not affect the mere increase in the rate of poverty in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is recalled that certain social measures originating from the ZUJF continue to be extended, even though all the conditions necessary for their cessation are met. Thus, we can see that this law, which minimally increases monetary social assistance and social security allowances and represents a cost of around €13 million, is being addressed at one meeting, while the coalition, with the extension of the ZUJF to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, takes more than €52 million in parental benefits, child allowances and scholarships. That is why we call on the government and the coalition to stop filling the budget on the backs of the most socially problematic groups of the population and to seek inflows in the budget where money is actually thrown through windows. With such trinkets, which the country devotes to the most vulnerable groups of the population, we will never entangle poverty and social bottoms. Our goal must be to accelerate the development and growth of the economy and to create new jobs with a higher added value, where people with their income will easily cover their living costs to themselves and their loved ones. This is the only way to move away from the social bottom and from poverty, which, unfortunately, is constantly more.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u93	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister, welcome again! Finally, the proposal for a new Law on Social Security Benefits finally allows the application of the basic amount of minimum full-value income, which has been established by the so-called Systemic Regulations, to be applied to the system law, and at the same time later due to the intervention measures of savings, to be used. Following this proposal, which we now have on the table, the basic amount, the original amount, which was €260, was then more than €270.82, which is almost €18 and 6.6%. At the same time, with a view to improving the situation or maintaining the situation of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and the protection allowance, a new equivalent scale is being established for these two rights, in a way that neither of the two groups, i.e. from the recipients of both rights, will be worse. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has found that the use of the full value of the amount of minimum income and the simultaneous use of the system equivalent scale or the maintenance of the current transitional scale would depriving beneficiaries of financial social assistance, in particular those families with children, which of course would not be right. These beneficiaries, including beneficiaries of a protective allowance, i.e. another transfer, including a large number of elderly pensioners, would be reduced not to such a small amount, taking into account the basic woman's minimum income at full levels while using the system scale. As I have already said, in the Desus Group, of course we support the proposed solution, the proposed amendment to the law, because we estimate that it is right and fair that none of the groups, none of the target groups that already live in poverty or at the edge of it, should be in one way or another in granting this support, are in a worse or unequal position in relation to other target groups. As we say, we will support the law, because the law, while preventing the deterioration of the material social situation of certain groups of beneficiaries of social security benefits, also releases a few years of lasting savings on people, tightening the belt in those whose survival depends precisely on the assistance of the State. Of course, it would be nice to add here that in Desus, as a party that is socially sensitive, we realize that basic social transfers do not allow individuals and families to achieve that minimum, that basket that is somehow required by statistics for a normal person to live a decent life. In any case, partial policies, partial sectoral policies must be taken to address them in a way that is somehow comprehensive and not independent of each other. In every way, such a policy must be pursued so that as few people below the poverty line as possible or that there will be no people below the poverty line and not people on the edge or below the risk of social exclusion. This is the task of this country, this is the task of this policy, this is the task of this coalition, and if it is unsuccessful here, it is unsuccessful on the whole line. But I'm happy to say that it's not detectable enough, but it's softening this ZUJF, it's softening. Unfortunately, because the situation in this country is not the same, and even more so, it is not so wide that it can be completely conceived, completely softened, completely annulled, completely eliminated, but some of the measures are. It is difficult to follow the criticism that is unjustifiable that all temporary measures are becoming permanent, but this is not the case, but I believe that with smart policies, including economics, not only employment social and family housing, this ZUJF will become an unpleasant memory of the past in a year or so. As it is said, social policy is necessary, it is likely to be forever and always, but not to treat it as partial, as one and only, but in combination with other policies to watch, plant trees and see the forest at the same time. As it is said, the Desus Group will unreservedly support the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u95	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u96	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The Act on Additional Intervention Measures and the Public Finance Balance Act set the minimum income amount at €260 and currently stands at €270.82 after two coordinations. Minimum income is the amount on which the amount of monetary social assistance and the security allowance are determined to prevent absolute poverty and to provide funds to meet minimum needs. Where individuals and families cannot provide social security on their own, they are entitled to the assistance provided by the State and the local community within the framework of active social policies. Money social assistance is eligible for a person who cannot provide material security for himself because of circumstances which cannot be affected. However, the protective allowance is intended for persons who are permanently unemployed or permanently unable to work or who are unemployed and over 63 years of age for women or 65 years for men and who are entitled to or could be entitled to financial social assistance. Ever since the beginning of the economic crisis, the rise in unemployment and the pressure of the population due to reduced incomes, the emphasis on social policy has been on mitigating social pressures through social transfers or providing basic income for the survival of those who cannot afford it. While the passive approach relatively successfully prevents absolute poverty, poverty, on the other hand, stabilises and increases the long-term risk of social exclusion. Despite the fall in GDP by intervention law and austerity measures, Slovenia has managed to protect the most vulnerable groups by significantly increasing the targetability of transfers and abandoning the universal approach, as the social protection system worked well enough during the crisis. The crisis has left strong consequences, which have been enhanced by savings. For so long, there have been warnings from many sides that austerity policy is unsuccessful, that it kills the social state, that it enriches the rich and takes the poor. Not many times have we also highlighted the fact that the consequences of the economic and financial crisis have too much to do with the social situation of our people and must be adequately addressed. They have been reflected in the reduction of social rights and human standards. The level of risk of poverty reaches the highest level so far, and what we are particularly concerned about is the increase in the risk of poverty among employees. But today, Slovenia is recovering successfully. Foreign government representatives point out that Slovenia is once again successful in having moderate economic growth, the number of unemployed declines. It is essential for the Social Democrats that this economic growth also be reflected in the rise in the standards of our people. Since the Statistical Office found that economic growth exceeded 2% of GDP in 2014, it was 1. 1. 2016 starts to apply the basic amount of the minimum income of 288,81 euros. However, we are probably all well aware that raising the minimum income is only a patch to the wound, because only through social transfers poverty cannot be reduced. Perhaps it is only to mitigate its consequences and to enable people to survive. Poverty must be tackled more actively and innovatively, only passive approaches to poverty will not be reduced. It is essential to go beyond a separate view of the social protection system and to integrate all the important elements that have an impact on the social situation of individuals and families – social policy, plus employment policy, plus tax policy. Only changes to social legislation are insufficient, other measures are needed, particularly those related to the labour market, and greater coherence between all policies and measures. Of course, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a new Law on Social Security Benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u97	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we won't support the law. If we supported him, we would support a cosmetic intervention where our society needs a serious operation. This operation is to raise the minimum income to the amount that will enable a decent survival. This amount is known and has been calculated by two research institutes commissioned by the Ministry of Labour since 2009. This amount is EUR 385, not EUR 289, as recorded by the Pahor government in Article 8 of the Social Security Benefits Act. In the meantime, this amount was reduced to EUR 308, pardon to EUR 260, due to intervention measures, and this is the only reason why the government can today boast that it has raised the minimum income, even though it has only returned it to some previous level. I will make it clear again, in 2009, the Ministry found that an amount of EUR 385 is needed for a single person. Since the minimum wage was only EUR 450 net at the time, they set themselves EUR 308. As the minimum wage of EUR 560 is now net, economic reasons for not realising the amount of EUR 385 have also been dropped according to the Ministry's own logic. It would require €16 million to raise to €308 and €60 million to raise to €385. This is a small amount for a socially-needed measure which is also economically justified, because all these revenues are fully channelled into taxes and consumption. This measure is implemented immediately next year without any debt, provided that the Government implements its mini-tax reform, this is to maintain the fourth income class and increase the effective rate of corporate tax. Well, it's not that the government can't do it, it doesn't want to do it. Minister Mumor said that one last time. If people were allowed to survive, I would not want to work for the minimum wage that is below the risk of poverty. Instead of raising the minimum wage, the government prefers to let people down. This is clearly not supported by any explanation that EUR 385 is significantly lower than EUR 680 per month, as is the minimum wage with compulsory allowances, which includes all social security rights without censorship. There is also an overriding argument that the recipients of the protective allowance by definition are not working persons and that a large part of the beneficiaries are difficult or even permanently unemployed. They are collateral damage to Slovenian neoliberalism. In the United Left, we will not support this social hypocrisy. We recognize that it contains a positive element that will actually improve the situation of some recipients of social assistance, but also here the Government is indeed inconsistent. On the one hand, it retains a transitional equivalent scale for recipients of social assistance because the system for them is so very unfavourable that, despite the apparent rise in minimum income, the dependent members will receive even less than now and, on the other hand, introduces a new equivalent scale for determining a protective supplement where the recipients would, in its opinion, receive too much due to the use of the system scale. As a result, the single recipient of the protective allowance will receive only two and a half euros more than we receive today, despite the apparent increase in the minimum income. Declared pensioners' advocates, the beneficiaries of the protective allowance are almost without exception pensioners, and they will obviously not move forward. In the United Left, we will make it clear: we are not agreeing to your farce by raising the minimum income of 100 euros below the minimum amount found in 2009 and 300 euros below the poverty risk threshold. Please, who boasts of the measures that leave people 300 euros below the risk of poverty? You won't fool us by raising a security allowance for two and a half euros and you won't get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u99	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u100	The Honorable President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia we have half a million socially weak citizens and citizens. What, then, does monetary social assistance and a protective allowance mean to them? These are social security benefits which should allow them at least the basic conditions for a decent life. Poverty risk has increased steadily since 2008. The number of recipients of cash social assistance has been steadily increasing since 2012, when there were 533 000 recipients, in this year alone there were more than 483,000 recipients by September. Christian Democrats are constantly alerting us to this problem. We re-evaluate that a number of left-wing actions have not been taken. Following the introduction of amendments to the social legislation of then Minister Svetlik in 2012, the number of recipients of the protective allowance decreased. This means that many older people have refused to receive a protective allowance out of fear of being deprived of the property they live in or without the possibility of having access to that property if the State had placed a prohibition on their possession on it. With the transfer of the protective supplement after the Svetlik reform, the system of social transfers has changed radically. The number of recipients of the protective supplement dropped. Unfortunately, in the proposed amendment, we are talking again about fines, minimal changes in equivalency scales and monetary aid prices, but we are not addressing the causes of the increasing poverty of recipients of monetary social assistance and of the protection allowance. That is why Christian Democrats are proposing a proposal for lower taxes and a decommissioning of work. This would encourage the creation of new jobs so that people can enjoy a decent life through their work. Our proposal is that the beneficiaries of the minimum wage remain EUR 50 per month, which is 600 euros per year. However, we also need to draw attention to the pension farmers who were abolished by Svetlik's Law in 2012 and transferred to the category of social security benefits or social security allowance, which is linked to the obligation to return legal heirs, which is why many beneficiaries do not choose to receive these transfers. According to the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia, rural poverty is particularly pronounced. All of these are devastating consequences of the poor response of left-wing governments to the economic and social crisis. While we will support this new proposal, it brings at least something to the weak, but it is not a long-term systemic solution. We once again call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fully regulate the social policy in a way that respects human dignity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u101	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us the first of four laws on labour, family and social matters, which are bound by the adoption of the budget. Despite the fact that we are considering laws at the same meeting, we do not have the same views in the Group of Non-Aligned Members as we do in all the proposals. In our Group of Members, we support raising or defrosting the minimum personal income to just over EUR 288, which is foreseen by the novel that is before us today. Even though we cannot talk about large amounts or that the 18 euro individuals will know each other very well, it seems important that we have come back to the level of social security benefits that existed before 2012. Of course, we would like the change to be more tangible, but these are the amounts that the state budget can still bear in many areas, with many needs. We also support the change in the system equivalent scale envisaged by the law, as only by raising the minimum personal income would make it worse for families and individuals alike. Let me stress that we would like to live in a country where such and similar laws would not be necessary at all. In order not to need social security benefits and to distribute social property in such a way that the country should not have to worry about the most vulnerable groups. However, we must not close our eyes; many of the social threats in our country are still high, already an increase of €18 per state budget per year means a 13 million increase in income. But here are the categories for which we simply need to find funds in the budget, because we need to remain a social and just society. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, as has already been said, we support the innovations in the Social Security Benefits Act, since this is a measure that is not only welcome but also urgently needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u103	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments were tabled for the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. This is for the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Ageing Security and Social Benefits. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your word. If we have released part of the measures under the previous law and thereby raised the minimum income, which is the basis for determining the amount of financial social assistance and the protection allowance, we regret that in this proposal we are prolonging part of the measures established by the ZUJF, which do not relate to social policy, but mainly to family policy and concern, unfortunately, despite the fact that we would like to relax, particularly the medium layer. With this law before you, it is mainly about extending the maximum parental pay limit to twice the average gross salary, which is, for September, I looked at EUR 3 000 44. The compensation for parental protection, and as regards paternity leave, will not be given 100 % on the basis of the basis calculated for the individual, but in 90 % and the aid at the time of the birth of the child and the allowance for large families, which before the ZUJF was a universal right in our family policy, that is to say that all parents were entitled, will still remain in force that this right can be obtained by those up to 6th grade, which is up to 64 % of the average net income per person for a four-member family of EUR 2 000 553 net, for a five-member family, for example for a large family allowance of EUR 3 000 217 – net amounts. The austerity measures are therefore being extended, we are passing a new anchor, i.e. the new conditions under which these family policy austerity measures will be released. This is a condition for achieving 2.5% economic growth at the same time as 1.3% growth in work. While there will be more talk below, it must be said that economic growth unfortunately shows that it is not sufficient for us to be able to relax because you need to know that insurance rights – and our system is based on the fact that we are paying our contributions from work – are much more connected to work activity, this is, of course, linked to economic growth, but it is not in direct correlation and is, unfortunately, happening with delay. We kind of landed on the government, but we didn't want any of the family policy austerity measures that were universal, which we could be proud of in Slovenia, to change this law so that we could become permanent. So we just extend certain measures and we will do everything in our power together to raise such economic growth as well as work activity in order to reach these conditions so that, above all, middle-class people, fathers, mothers, parents can get these benefits back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u105	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 21st session of 11. 11. Consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill under urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits should be dealt with on an urgent basis and that the Committee should therefore consider it on the basis of Rule 144 of our Rules of Procedure. The committee was attended by the competent ministry and the public concerned. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, and commented on Articles 2, 3 and 4, which was also taken into account when amendments were prepared and adopted. The Committee has also received an opinion from the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposal of the law. The Commission had no comments on the draft law, but discussed the appropriateness and reasons for introducing an additional so-called cumulative criterion for the termination of the austerity measures, which, at the request of economic growth of up to 2.5 per cent of gross domestic product, also relates to the requirement to achieve overall growth in labour activity in the 20-64 age group by 1.3 percentage points. The representative of the applicant said that the proposed amendment did not affect the content of the law, but merely prolongs the scope of the restriction of individual rights on parental protection and family benefits introduced by the Public Finance Balance Act and the Law on intervention measures in the field of labour market and parental protection. The right to maternity, paternity and parental compensation is thus limited to twice the average wage and the amount of the father and parental compensation remains reduced to 90% of the base. Also, the allowance for large families and support for the birth of a child remains limited to the material position of the family, otherwise the price is set at 64 % of the net monthly salary per person in the household. The main solution, therefore, is to extend the austerity measures in the area of parental protection and family benefits rather than the sustainability of those measures. The debate that took place on the individual articles of the draft law focused on the position of representatives of certain parliamentary groups not to support the bill, as they oppose any extension of the austerity measures in the area of parental protection and family benefits. In order to achieve savings, it is proposed to introduce a new additional cumulative criterion for the termination of the austerity measures, namely, what I have already said, cumulatively two criteria relating to gross social product and to the labour activity of the population between 20 and 64. As it is said, these proposed amendments to the law – that is, the law that we have before us is intended to prolong certain intervention measures, some austerity measures, but not to cement them and enforce them as permanent ones. It has also been pointed out that those most vulnerable target groups will not be further affected or that their material social situation will not deteriorate with the solutions of this law. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and voted on individual amendments drafted by the Coalition. He also discussed all the articles of the bill, which he also adopted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report that you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u107	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u108	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the proposal for a law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. The fact is that families and family policies are neglected for this government, so it is clear that this government and coalition do not expect any important incentives in this direction, except when it comes to ideological issues in family policy, such as the review of marriage. It is for this reason that the Government has proposed this amendment to the law extending the scope of the restriction of individual rights on parental protection and family benefits introduced in this area by the Law on the Balance of Public Finance and the Law on Intervention Measures in the Field of Labour Market and Parental Protection. In addition to the first criterion, this is 2.5% economic growth, the government has introduced an additional criterion concerning the requirement to exceed the growth rate of employment by 1.3 percentage points in the 20-64 age group. This means, of course, that both conditions must be met at the same time, otherwise it is not possible to release these measures. It is clear from all of this that such solutions are designed to be virtually unfulfilled, which means that such a solution will become virtually permanent. Obviously, it is acceptable for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the first place, to fill the budget at the expense of family benefits, not only at the expense of maternity, paternity and parental benefits, but, as we see in the second law, also at the expense of children's allowances. So Cerar's government will save over €50 million at the expense of Slovenian families. We oppose such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we believe that state savings should no longer be carried out at the expense of Slovenian families, as the condition for the abolition of measures, the 2.5% economic growth as determined by the ZUJF, has already been met. Therefore, once again, let me say that we will not support such laws in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because this also shows the attitude of the Government to families and family policies in our society.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u109	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, a nice hello again! We adopt the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, a law that does not affect the content of family policy governing parental protection rights, benefits, benefits, family benefits, in a way that does not want them and does not enslave them further, but is intended to extend the existing limitation of individual rights – not all! I'm having a little trouble with my language when I'm talking about extension, because it would be personal and everyone in Desus's party, but I firmly believe that everyone in the National Assembly wanted the infamous ZUJF and all the other restrictive measures to be a thing of the past, but unfortunately it's not possible to do so at this point. In order to meet the deferred requirement for full enjoyment of parental protection rights and family benefits, the next financial year would bring an additional 17 and a half million heavy burdens on the budget. Although the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in the 2016 budget cut were able to provide an additional 65 million, this was not enough to prevent some measures from being extended or certain measures would no longer be necessary in the future, restrictive measures. In our parliamentary group, we have tried to be in all these years of economic crisis, which has led to strong restrictions, strong belt tightening in just all areas, to the austerity measures imposed by the State. Believe me, it's not easy to allow families, socially endangered, retired people to be taken, and I could probably even list them. Of course, it's never easy to decide who and how much to take, much easier, much more like it, much more populism, if you want, it's performance to give, to show with your finger that much, that much, and you're very fond of it. We are not in a position to act like this today, but I believe that we will soon be able to release all measures. Indeed, it was difficult to identify itself immediately to support family, family, children, i.e. parental benefits and all sensitive family benefits, such as aid, large family allowance, child-bearing assistance, and could also be listed, in particular for the reason that an additional condition is involved in the application of full amounts or in the return of entitlements, which is above 2.5% gross social product growth, and at the same time a 1.3% increase in the level of labour activity should be achieved. I believe that with these funds, which are limited, this government, this ministry will achieve a breakthrough in this area, that they will very soon be met and one and the other conditions will be met and that people will receive all the benefits that would somehow be paid or justified by applying these rules before the implementation of the austerity measures. In the Desus Group, we believe that, according to the forecast of economic growth, given the relatively favourable situation, I hope that they are not only temporary, but will also experience their realization in the coming years, with the number of unemployed being reduced, that the number of employees can be increased, that more money will flow into both the cash and the budget, and at the same time that other part of the cumulative block, i.e. 1.3% growth in the rate of employment, will be realized and people will receive full benefits as they go by law. Once again, I would like to point out that we can be proud of our family policy in Slovenia, where there is no 365 days of maternity leave and maternity leave in the world, before these restrictive measures can be implemented, even a 100 % compensation that is not currently applicable to all groups, this must be recognised, and we are comparable and competitive in terms of our family policy, so we can be proud. As we say, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u111	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u112	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The fundamental need to adopt the amendment of this law is based on the measures taken by the National Assembly with a view to achieving the consolidation of public finances at a time when the financial and economic crisis in Slovenia and the world was the most difficult and at a higher level of its brutality. In the Group of Social Democrats, when we adopt measures such as the ZUJF, we have voiced the fear that the savings spiral will be difficult to stop and that the path to stabilising the systems of solidarity and the social state, once the law of this type enters into force, will be very difficult to put back into force and that this path will be very difficult. Once treatment has been established, interruption in the middle may be even more dangerous than possibly not the most optimal medicine. Therefore, the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, which is before us today, unfortunately does not eliminate the work of austerity measures, since, despite the positive indicators of this year and the previous year, we are still committed to implementing policies that enable us to continue strengthening the public financial stability of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter is, here we must be clear, a fundamental condition that we have the opportunity to re-energize community solidarity and social cohesion, in some areas with the prospect that we are expanding the segment of these releases to a greater extent in the future. We will be part of these laws and will also consider them at this regular session. Thus, in some ways, the most important measure of this novelty is to explicitly lay down the conditions under which it is expected that it will continue to be a mere prediction, in 2018 an integrated release of austerity measures, which need to be clearly defined as temporary and exclusively interventional natures, is possible. Thus, the law provides that these austerity measures shall only apply until the achievement of 2.5% economic growth and 1.3% of labour activity is achieved. In particular, work activity is crucial so that we can also achieve permanent sustainability of social security and social cohesion systems, especially at a time when we are facing such a difficult demographic situation on the one hand and also extremely acute situations in international markets, where Slovenian companies have been fighting more and more successfully in recent times. Since, despite the achievement of 2% economic growth, we are still failing to achieve economic indicators at the level of 2008 and because we are assessing that the law is still carrying out its task, this time primarily to prevent the sustainability of the austerity measure, we will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, particularly in the light of the fact that, despite the extension of this law, we are also releasing a certain part of the measures aimed at protecting both the middle class and those who are the weakest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u113	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal of the novel, which is before us, extends three austerity measures in the area of parental protection. The negative consequences of these three austerity measures are quite different and I must also consider them separately in my own consideration. In the United Left, let us point out and oppose the reduction of the parental protection allowance, which is being extended by this amendment. Since the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, only 90% of the salary paid by the mother or father in the last 12 months prior to the parental leave period has been paid. So no more than 100 %; this amendment prolongs this measure. This savings has two negative consequences. On the one hand, it reduces the income of families where parents have wages that are only slightly higher than the minimum wage, and on the other hand, it discourages families where parents have similar salaries than that of their father. The first negative result of the extension of the measure is therefore an increase in the social vulnerability of low-income families. If we do not extend this austerity measure, the parents will receive a good 11% higher compensation. We have a simulation for 2012 – I speak for the United Left. A single mother with an average salary of EUR 1000 gross received a refund of EUR 678. However, if she were entitled to 100 % of the compensation, she would receive EUR 744 per month. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that such a family is, in both cases, living below the poverty risk threshold of €788/2012 for a two-member family with a small child. Another negative consequence is that such measures discourage fathers from taking parental leave. With us, men tend to have higher wages than women. And if you have to give up ten percent of your net salary, you don't get paid that 10 percent of your salary, which, as I said, is usually paid by a man. As a result, the father is often placed in a position to avoid taking parental leave at all. In the United Left, we will only support this law if our amendment is adopted, which proposes that 100 per cent of the base be paid for parental protection. However, I have two other measures to identify. Here, prolonging savings really has no worse social consequences. Aid at the birth of a child is a one-off payment of €280. The large family allowance is an annual transfer of €395 for a three-member family. The censorship is very high, at a good EUR 634 per family member, which is 64% of the average net salary per household member. Such censorship is exceeded only by a family in which each parent earns about 1.3 average wages. In Slovenia, however, less than one third of employees have salaries that are higher than average, so this austerity measure does not affect families with average and under-average incomes and is not so problematic for us to a large extent. However, there is a serious problem of low parental benefits, and we have proposed an amendment in the United Left to increase the remuneration by a good 11 percent. If the amendment is not adopted, the proposed law will not be supported by us either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u115	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u116	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The New Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits is not acceptable to us and Christian Democrats will not be supported. Why don't we support her? It seems unacceptable to us that the applicants say that this novel merely prolongs the validity of the restriction of individual rights on parental protection and family benefits introduced by the ZUJF and the intervention law. They're both supposed to be at 1. 1. 2016 expired because economic growth exceeded the limit of 2.5 per cent. In addition to the growth rate of GDP above 2.5 per cent, applicants introduce an additional cumulative condition that the increase in the rate of employment in the 20-64 age group exceeds 1.3 percentage points. The representatives of the Ministry could not explain when or how many times in the history of Slovenia alone the two conditions were met at the same time. In the fact that there was no answer, we can only imagine what that means. At the time of the adoption of the ZUJF, in particular in the area of family policy measures, we all wanted these measures to go away as soon as possible. Surely, then, you will recall the time with which we have taken these measures, and now these measures are not only prolonging, but the conditions for the release of these provisions are further exacerbated. The newly introduced cumulative condition is indeed unfulfilled. Slovenia is expected to achieve such a rate of growth in work activity only once in history, in 2003, throughout the 25-year history. Representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities, and coalition Members, under such conditions, you are taking measures that are permanent. This is unacceptable and we strongly oppose this by Christian Democrats. On behalf of citizens and citizens, I ask the Minister once again publicly when, according to the Ministry, this cumulative condition will be reached to release the restriction on parental compensation, assistance at the birth of a child and an allowance for a large family. On the committee, we have only heard words of hope that this will happen as soon as possible. We Christian Democrats believe and advocate that we must work for responsible politicians in the interests of citizens and citizens and not just speak and hope. We will vote against the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u117	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Your Honor, once again, hello! The amendment to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits before us is a matter of extending the austerity measures adopted by the Law on Public Finance Balance in 2012. In this regard, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we stress that, regardless of what we think about the way in which we adopt the Public Finance Balance Act, we have reduced expenditure at the time of the economic downturn with the idea that we will relax the restrictions when signs of recovery begin to appear. Most of the measures were of such a temporary nature. Although we have achieved a certain rate of growth, there is still insufficient resources in the State budget for all the measures we would like in the social state. However, due to positive economic indicators and signs of recovery, it would certainly not be expected that the government would also decide to further tighten the conditions for the release of measures. Since we also need to achieve 1.3% of our work rate at the same time, in addition to GDP growth, we can rightly ask ourselves whether, in this case, it may be a retraining of a temporary measure into a permanent one. In a country where we pay more attention to young people, young families and particularly vulnerable groups, we would expect this to be reflected in the measures we are taking. We therefore sincerely hope that the Ministry's forecasts will come true so that we can achieve this level of work in the coming years. However, we fear that this will not be the case, which is why we do not support the proposal for a law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u119	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u120	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits prolongs two austerity measures. Maintains the restriction on the mother, father and parental allowance to double the average wage and the reduction in the amount of the father and parental compensation to 90% of the base, except where the applicant’s base does not exceed the minimum wage and amounts to a refund of 100 per cent of the base, and maintains the condition of the allowance for a large family and the aid at the birth of a child with a material status of the family, which means that both rights are bound to the price of 64 per cent of the average net monthly salary per person or to the 6th income class. Both measures need to highlight the fundamental starting points that form the framework of the rights that we are discussing today. The scope of the law, such as maternity, paternity and parental leave, does not change with the proposal of the law. Parental arrangements are defined not only by the amount of compensation for maternity and parental leave but also by the duration of both absences. Thus, maternity leave remains for 15 weeks and 105 days respectively and amounts to a refund of 100 % of the base at that time. However, for paternity leave and parental leave belonging to both parents for 130 days, the refund remains reduced by 10 %. Slovenia is also compared with Sweden, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Hungary, Portugal and Canada. The study on motherhood and paternity at work published in 2014 under the international labour organisation shows that 53% of the countries and 89 out of 185 covered by the survey meet the minimum standard of maternity leave, which is 14 weeks, including Slovenia. 42 countries allow maternity leave for at least 18 weeks and 60 countries for between 12 and 13 weeks and 27 countries for less than 12 weeks. According to some other data, Slovenia is one of the rare countries which allows the payment of 100% of the compensation for the total absence for one year, both during maternity and parental leave. In the discussion on the price of child support and the allowance for a large family, it is also appropriate to take note of the specific figures or to tell which families are already and will be eligible for both supplements in the future. These are those families whose monthly income per family member does not exceed EUR 643.46. These families are eligible for assistance at the birth of a child of EUR 280.75. But when we talk about a large family allowance, we need to know that families with a monthly income of less than €3 000 217 have 3 children or families with a monthly income of less than €3 000 860 and have 4 children. The figures could be different and the benefits could be more favourable to the beneficiaries if the state's public financial situation were different. However, under the given options, we must ask what is the correlation between social security contributions and the amount of compensation provided by the State for one year's absence from work during maternity, paternity and parental leave. Economic growth does not necessarily mean new jobs, more jobs and more labour-related contributions. Therefore, the level of labour activity is also important. In this respect, in order to release austerity measures in the area of social protection and family benefits, economic growth is required to exceed 2.5% of gross domestic product and to increase the rate of employment in the age group from 20 to 65 years above 1.3%. However, it should be reiterated that temporary measures are at stake. In the SMC Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u121	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. With the proposed amendment, we understand in essence, and I would also like to point out that this is a proposal to extend the limits of individual rights on parental protection and family benefits introduced by Zuyfa, which is expected and inevitable in the current financial situation. Even though we are now talking about family benefits, I would still like to mention the other changes in general, if I call it social legislation, which we currently have in the package on the agenda. It is imperative to look at the whole of the changes because it is budgetary laws and because, in this sense, a balance is also sought so that some beneficiaries are not particularly affected, even if we have to remain within the financial framework available, given the current economic growth. Let me mention that in Slovenia there are 14.5% of people living below the poverty threshold, which is a problem and we have to worry about. However, it is certainly more optimistic that the rise in the risk of poverty has stopped in 2014 and remained the same as it was in the previous year. So it shows that we do have an effective system of social transfers. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the level of risk of poverty in this way is almost halved, otherwise it would be 25 %. In the area of social security, the greatest problem is the poverty of those who do not have regular income, except social assistance. We also know from this budget item that an increase in the basic amount of the minimum income is foreseen to maintain the social security threshold of beneficiaries, and also in all other measures aimed at the most vulnerable groups of the population and directed so that they also fully represent the provision of social security or social well-being, it is understandable that we will also support the extension of the limits of the rights of parental protection and family benefits which I have already mentioned in the presentation of our position, and at this point it is certainly the only and right path in the light of the financial situation of the country. What I would like to point out is that the full scope of social security is targeted, that is, by focusing on the most vulnerable groups of the population, which is in fact the most important in view of the state's current financial situation and the options available, so we will not support the amendments of the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u123	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. In the introduction to my debate, I would rely on what I was able to track by a colleague from the SMC Group. She talked about the threshold of poverty risk and mentioned that 14.5% of Slovenian citizens live below this threshold of poverty risk. Here. This number is high. It's scary. And it is true, as the colleague said, that growth has stopped between 2014 and 2015. But, forgive me, this increase in the risk of poverty has stopped at a record high level in our country and based on this data we cannot and must not conclude that social protection systems in our country are working well. If this number and this terrible level of risk of poverty should lead us to something, it is that we need to strengthen social welfare at the point of care for the most disadvantaged, the weakest and the poorest in our society. However, we can obtain funds for this without breaking the fiscal framework of the existing budget by resorting to the redistributive measures afforded to us by the upkeep of the country on the income side. Last but not least, we have also proposed this in the United Left when we have proposed and still propose to raise monetary social assistance to €385, which we would need from the point of view of the fight budget of €60 million. In view of the data provided by a colleague from the SMC Group, given her concern over poverty and the trend of poverty in Slovenian society, I would really expect you to support our amendments and our proposals not only in the area of the novel that we are currently considering, but also in the area of monetary social assistance and the protection allowance in general. Unfortunately, from the same data with which we operate in the United Left and show the terrible state of social exclusion and the risk of poverty in Slovenian society, you have performed the diametric opposite conclusions we have made in the United Left. For the United Left, this data suggests that the situation is extreme and that poverty must be addressed and acted immediately, and this means extending existing austerity measures for you. I think that this is absolutely wrong and I will call on you on behalf of your own data and your own statistics to reconsider your political position and do not want to give your support to our proposals and our amendments. This amendment prolongs the austerity measure whereby the parental compensation is 90 % of the base, unless that base is lower than the minimum wage, in which case this base shall be 100 %. This means that households with income just above minimum wage receive very low parental benefits. I'm going to repeat the case that I mentioned earlier, to a mother with one child who had a thousand euros in gross wages. As mentioned, the simulation is based on data for 2001 for a simple reason, because for information and numbers we found ourselves using one of the social work centres, which was unfortunately not updated. If we counted the same things for 2016, only absolute numbers would change and the essence remains the same. And that's the fact that the refund has to be increased by a good 11%. And that is exactly what we are proposing with our amendment to the Socialists. If I come back, for example, this single mother. This single mother, who received an average of 1,000 euros in gross wages, was compensated at EUR 687. However, if the refund were 100 %, it would be EUR 744 per month. When we talk about socially risky cases or cases that are at stake, these are amounts that greatly contribute to the social well-being of an individual and contribute to his ability to function, to function in our society, without being pushed into a social one, and to a different margin. In general, we are talking about differences that are relatively negligible from a budgetary point of view. For households that have gone below the statistical threshold of poverty risk, this is very well known and this threshold for poverty risk was €788 per month. Today this number is slightly different, it is 771 euros. In view of the above, the adoption of this amendment, proposed by the Socialists, would significantly improve the social situation of low-income young families as well. However, another positive effect would be to encourage fathers to make more parental leave decisions and to take on part of the care the burden of a newborn child on the family would contribute to gender equality. Last but not least, we have a minister today, who is not only a Minister of Labour, but also a Minister for the Family, but also a Minister for Equal Opportunities. This amendment of ours contributes directly to the family and to gender equality in the family. Of course, we know that this is not a sufficient measure. The problem here is rooted outside the family. The problem is that men generally receive higher wages than women, so their fatherly leave simply is not worth it. But when we turn the debate around to the family itself, it is necessary to take this as a work fact and to build social proposals on the fact that in the sphere of families and in the series of compensations we are also trying to compensate partly for the inequality that arises between men and women in the incomes from work that arise in some work process. As a result, this amendment would still slightly improve the situation in this area. If Father takes parental leave today, he actually gives up 10% of the net salary. If my father has a higher salary than my mother, which is unfortunately still common in our society, such a bill simply does not pay them. The result we get is that fathers do not decide on parental leave, and then the mother is this household work and the work of reproduction in the family is loaded on her shoulders with full weight, which is not regulated, as I stress, and once again, gender equality is an important category that we must strive for in our society. In fact, the situation is even worse from a social point of view. If both have low wages in the family, the father’s leave actually threatens the social situation of the family. Look, it's totally unacceptable for a father to take his father's leave and then question the existence of his family as such. Look, it's not fair, it's not social, it's not family, and it doesn't contribute to gender equality. Such arrangements are counterproductive and disciplinary for family members, fathers and mothers. And that's not right. We should talk about how to fix this. With our amendment, we are trying to take at least a small step in this direction. If I can sum it up. Our proposal would help low-income families, help mothers in general and, last but not least, contribute to gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u125	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Perhaps just a few explanations about the amendment tabled. In fact, with this amendment, he wants to join the social security system in Slovenia. The social security system is a system that is introduced into all social security systems and also parental protection, which is one of them. Thus, the same applies in the area of pension and disability insurance, health insurance, monetary compensation, i.e. employment and also in the area of parental protection. That's a very clear principle. The principle of insurance means that when I'm employed, I pay contributions to get compensation when there's a social case. In this case, parenthood. The principle of social security is based on meritocracy. It's logic, I have a higher salary, I pay more, and then I have a higher salary. We always have the highest possible compensation in the system, the lowest possible compensation, because this is about solidarity. But inside of that, as much as you pay, you get it. Of course, it protected that the person who receives is at least the height of the minimum wage. If we followed the amendment proposed, this means that all those who have less than the average salary in the Republic of Slovenia – and these are, unfortunately, you will not believe, two thirds of the salary – would make them a balance sheet in our country and everyone would get the same. This is the meaning of the collapse of the social security system itself. On the other hand, when it comes to discussing what this means for a family, in some ways it shows the ignorance of the whole system. For example, a mother who is on maternity or parental leave receives a minimum wage, at least a minimum wage. If you had an average salary, this would mean that you only get a lower child allowance and are compensated at the level of the child supplement because the height of the child supplement is measured according to the amount of income in the family. Remember, in 2013, we had already amended the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, concerning the level of financial social assistance for single-parent families, where poverty has proved to be the worst, and also the amount of child support we raised for single-parent families. Therefore, we cannot look only at the parental compensation measure, and this is tantamount to the problem of income in these families. Systems are really interconnected, so it is important that we look at the whole, because the whole then has an impact on the material and social situation. Kat’s concern about gender equality is probably the right thing to say about gender equality. Fathers get an additional 3 days of paternity leave paid to be a country that has one of the lowest so-called wage differences between men and women within the European Union. They acknowledge that in this area of equality in employment between men and women, Slovenia is a model. Before that, I had a meeting with the outgoing Norwegian ambassador, who also made this very clear. Slovenia is also a country in the field of gender equality from the point of view of human rights, which does a great deal and is so recognised in the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u127	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As has already been pointed out in the position of the Group of Social Democrats, the overall framework on this issue must be considered when addressing this amendment. It is also impossible to consider this law from the point of view of the real income of the family separately from the fact that today we are also talking about a 10% increase in the children's allowance of the 5th and 6th grades, that at the next point or one after that, we will talk about an increase in the scholarship price, that we will open up a space of 3,000 200 new scholarships. And when we talk about the issue of social policy and family policy, it is important to think not only about this passive work, about transfers, about what the state can offer to intervene in order to maintain some social status, to maintain some standard, but mainly about the active work of family and social policy. Today or in these days, for example, we have been informed that the unemployment rate has dropped to a slightly small number of over 104 thousand unemployed, which has been a major step forward since 2012, for example, when this unemployment has reached one of its peaks. This is an extremely important segment achieved through active employment policy, through intervention measures that have followed both the part of the policies of the European Union and the part of the measures implemented by this previous government. If we can say that, in the budget and in the financial perspective for the next period, more than €90 million is allocated for social activation, that we are pursuing some coherent family policies, and not least that, from the issue of youth unemployment alone, it is now significantly more comprehensive to the issue of the work activity of the whole population, that is, also through intervention measures in the labour market, we are trying to address the problem of the unemployed in the population of 55 and beyond, it is also easier to understand that it is also easier to understand that all of them, to the full extent at a given time and in the context of the commitments we have made, including the fiscal rule, cannot be taken care of immediately. And if we want to understand these policies, we need to understand them not only through logic, that there is a need to constantly raise transfers, to keep trying only to put out the fire, but, above all, to look at the side that talks about the active work of these policies. So active employment policies, strengthening economic activity, internationalisation and so on. That is all that will bring the result that has been published today, a renewed reduction in unemployment and the lowest unemployment rate in the last three years. This information also means the most effective family and social policy, i.e. through jobs to ensure a stable, secure income for people and not just to talk about passive measures, but above all to allow people to provide themselves with a fair pay by their own honest work and to survive themselves and their family, which is also the basic doctrine of the International Labour Organization. In this context, an extension of this measure must also be put in place, which, of course, we hope will come to its stage as soon as possible when it can be released. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u129	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I'm gonna try to respond to the points, and I don't really know where to start. Maybe at the most, in the nicknames, the dry-cleaning part. Our amendment was made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to withdraw from the system's regulations. That's just not true. Look, it's just a legal fiction. Moreover, not in any reality, not only legally, but in reality, in the field, it does not endure among people. Because we are not deciding on the basis of legal fiction, but on the basis of whether a measure is useful or not. In this case, a single mother with low incomes would receive a higher remuneration and we therefore propose what we propose. And if the parental care system is really meant to help families, it's called parental protection, then our measure is more than systemic. But of course it can happen, as it seems, this will happen, and it would not be the first time that people with their concrete pressures will simply leave to the computers and the wheel of the fabricated system and be sacrificed briefly and with them some social stability. It wouldn't be the first time. We have been in this country many times, not to say daily in the face of how socially excluded, deprived, poor, low-income workers, reprisals and so on leave themselves, instead of significantly interfering with such arrangements and allowing them to live and function in a normal way. As regards the child allowance, which was also mentioned in this debate. Look, all we are saying is that, given the income of compensation alone, the family would live below the statistical threshold of poverty risk, and we would never interfere with this debate with the children's allowance. Once again, however, we need to ask ourselves if it seems normal for someone who pays for parental care during parental leave to receive such a low amount of compensation that it is necessary to save poverty by means of a child’s allowance. This is the real social fact that we are facing in this discussion and no phrases about the systemic arrangements of this fact can be erased from our eyes. Maybe it's communications-efficient, yeah. However, the material effect of this on the ground is that it leaves people in social distress, which is directly opposite to the declared intensity of system regulation. Then there is another argument or counter-argument to our amendment, which was my favorite, to put it a little cynically, namely, the argument on the balance sheet that we are proposing is actually a balance sheet. Look, nothing could be further from the truth, we still suggest that individuals receive 100 percent of the compensation from their base, says what they have received from their work in the last 12 months. The only thing we are changing is that the limit for these 100 % of the remuneration is to rise from those with minimum wage to the average wage. In this way, we really cover all those with under-average incomes, while at the same time we do not subsidise anyone who has an average income. If anything, we intervene in the situation of the maximum extent of sound social justice, basic social justice and we do not force any levelling device. So I would ask if we could abstain from such comments, characteristics and values in this discussion because they do not contribute to the creative debate on the problem ahead, but rather to solving the problem. But they contribute, you know, to that fam of Slovenian parliamentaryism, because there they are just messing around, and the interest of the people is the Spanish village. And that is exactly what families do, with equal opportunities between sexes, we must not allow it in any way. It is too hot a social issue to push them into the darkness and belittle them with such a way of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u131	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u132	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. First of all, I must say that I have listened again to a demagogic debate that has nothing to do with reality. And I very much ask those who are sitting in this House to start talking once and for all about reality. One is what is written in the Communist manifesto, another is what is real life in the Slovenian political space. I would ask that those who do not manage it better not discuss it at some point. As far as the amendment tabled by the United Left is concerned, I must make it very clear that we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not because of the content of the proposal, but mainly because we have made it clear that we do not support this law. And then it's logical that we don't support the amendments. When we talk about family policy, it is also very clear that at the expense of Slovenian families, this government will save €50 million by this law. If this is a positive family policy for this government, then I don't know, I really don't know. Either I'm a demagog or a little bit, I don't know, over wood or something, I don't understand. How can you talk about a positive family policy in one sleep, and on the other hand, you take 50 million euros? Somebody explain this to me. At the same time, I'm asking the government, because now the minister is here, and I'm very happy. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'd beg you because I didn't bother anyone when I was discussing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u133	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u134	that the head of the SD Group really learns to behave as is appropriate. [[…]] Please, Mr. Head of the Parliamentary Group. See, my question, which is important, is this: why is another criterion introduced in this bill? Why? All those who have read this are almost 99% aware that this is happening so that these criteria will never be met. Because if you follow both criteria, it is well known and it is clear that the government here deliberately introduced this criterion so that it would never be feasible. I'm sure. I also want the government to answer that question. Although I myself explained what we were thinking, why this second criterion had been introduced. Because this second criterion was not needed. 2.5% of economic growth was achieved. The Zujf clearly stated the time by which these measures were in force. 2.5% of economic growth has been achieved and we are taking 50 million euros from families in this situation. And this is supposed to be a positive family policy!? Are you kidding me? Dear colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, don't say one thing, but do the other. Slovenian people aren't exactly like that, so I'm going to say there's more in there, even if we're from farmers at home, that we understand about what's going on. [[…]] You have to read through lines, and that's the key question. I think the Slovenian people have enough deception. Let's pour ourselves some pure wine and say that for such and other reasons, so that we can give the public administration 180 million euros because Struggle has forced it out of its political story, forced it, we have to take 50 million euros to the families. That's what you're saying. And if you say that, we'll all say okay, you're honest, you've told the Slovenian people honestly what you think about him and the families. And then we'll all be happy and we'll say, here, for the first time, we have a left government that realizes that people need to pour pure wine, tell the truth that's one or the other. But I am most pleased today, I must say that today I have heard the sentences that I have already said twenty or thirty times that it is not a social policy that shares social assistance, but it is particularly crucial and comes from how we are prepared and able to create the right environment for companies to expand, employment and so on. That's the real social policy. That's what the gentleman on my left said very clearly today. And thank God, slowly my voice reaches those who in the past have given much different thought to this issue. Well, you see who says that we will not come to a common point and we will start to really act in the interest of the Slovenian people and the Slovenian people, as well as of Slovenian families, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u135	Anybody else want to discuss this? The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll be brief. In this discussion, I would like to remind the government of their promises of a so-called mini-tax reform. I am talking about maintaining the fourth income class, which gives us an additional €16 million in the state budget. I am talking about increasing progress on corporate income taxation and all these inflows, which can strengthen the budget in the coming years, and not least for 2016 and 2017, then we can service our social policy with these funds. Our social policy is in such a state that these funds and services are needed bloodyly at the moment. No economic growth will in itself eliminate poverty. For the purely empirical real basis of this, let me remind you of 2008 when we had record economic growth due to overheating, while in the same year the number of poor increased by 16,000. This is why the debate is about how only economic growth can eradicate poverty, pure demagogy. What we need is an active political intervention, an active tribute to the Government for a different progressive social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u137	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs has equal opportunities for Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. But this time I agree with you, Comrade Kordish. Economic growth alone cannot save, unfortunately, such an answer as to why a new anchor is needed. Economic growth shows that the economy is doing better, but without jobs, without contributions, social policy is a reallocation policy, in fact we do not have enough money to redistribute. So, if I answer to Mr Pojbic, for this is a new anchor, 2.5% of economic growth has been achieved, we are very happy, and we will do everything we can to ensure that economic growth remains in the future. The problem is that economic growth in itself is not directly linked to new jobs, it is taking place at a slow pace, as for example, remember in 2009, when we had the biggest drop in gross domestic product, in fact the unemployment rate began to grow gradually and we had the biggest problem in fact in 2012. The link between economic growth and then developments in the labour market always reacts to the delay. Although this delay is varied and only labour activity, because our policy is based primarily on social insurance, it is linked to the payment of contributions. That is why this simultaneous criterion of work is so important. If you ask me, we have not given this condition to the government because we would not want this to happen, and that we have given some thoughtful criteria, but we also believe in the law that will be dealt with later, for the first time, we are very active in addressing the issue of the work activity of the older population and thus actively contributing to raising precisely this condition, which we need to address in the country if we want to have enough money to relocate. Like Members of the 2012 National Assembly, when Zujf was adopted, you could not know when 2.5% growth would be achieved and when these measures could be released, today are the estimates of Umarje, we know that the second year is already the expected growth rate of work for 1.1, so we believe and we will do everything we can to achieve these two conditions as soon as possible and that we will release these measures, which is the goal. We want to have a family policy that has certain elements that are universal: a large family allowance, a child support allowance. But I do not ask you to say that this is a complete attack on families, because with one other law we will return part of the children's allowances and state scholarships, which are also an important income for families.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u139	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 37th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for an Intervention Action Act in the field of the market for work by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs, the same opportunities as Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u140	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Slovenian labour market has two characteristics in recent years: a low share of active people aged between 55 and 64. For years currently only 35%, the EU average is almost 52%, and the worrying trend of long-term unemployment, which means that the unemployed are longer than 12 months. Of course, the proportion of those over 55 years of age is increasing among the long-term unemployed. At present, 55% of the unemployed, over 55 years of age, have been unemployed for more than 2 years. Concerned are the consequences of long-term unemployment among the elderly, which often lead to social exclusion, deterioration of health status and consequently between recipients of monetary social assistance. The problem of older unemployed people in Slovenia is also highlighted in the recommendations of the Council of the European Union. The government estimates that the problem of unemployed older people needs to be addressed without delay and with an integrated approach. The bill contains an intervention measure, a temporary measure on the labour market, which provides an incentive to the employer in the case of employment of an unemployed person over 55 years of age, in the form of an exemption from the employer's social security contributions, for a maximum of 24 months of employment, but may also be for a shorter period. The draft law specifies exactly what conditions the employer wishing to apply the exemption from the payment of contributions must meet: in the last three months he has not forgiven for business reasons; in the last six months he has paid and paid social contributions regularly and does not have a blocked transaction account. It is important to point out that, despite the fact that the employer has not paid its part of social security contributions, the older worker will be entitled to the same amount of social security rights, which means that the non-payment of contributions will not affect the social security of the worker. It is important to point out that the Government, as a proposal for a law after careful consideration, has not decided to restrict the measure only in the event of the conclusion of a fixed-term employment contract, otherwise this would be ideal, but unfortunately in the case of long-term unemployed persons, we feel that the restriction of this measure would only mean, for an indefinite period of time, that many employers would not have decided to do so for reasons that are broader, labour market-related, labour-related and other reasons. The main purpose is to give older people the opportunity to come into contact with the labour market, to give them the opportunity, because we believe that only by working will they be given the opportunity to join the labour market later. I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u141	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much, President. Your Honors are here! As it is said, the Labour Market Interventions Act has been addressed and adopted by the Labour, Family, Social and Disability Committee at its 21st emergency meeting. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The work of the Committee was carried out by the Ministry of Labour and the public concerned. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspects and made comments thereon, which was also taken into account in the proposed and adopted amendments. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by their President, Peter Požun. The Committee supports the proposed measures, provided that the legislative provision below explicitly provides for the coverage of the loss of social security income for the purpose of exempting the payment of social security employers' contributions from the State budget and provides for a detailed procedure to ensure that the conditions for eligibility for the exemption of employers' contributions are met. The proposal stressed that the main objective of the proposed law was to ensure the possibility of applying a temporary incentive for the employment of older unemployed persons in the form of exemption from payment of employers’ social security contributions for a maximum of two years. In order to increase the employment opportunities of older unemployed persons, the possibility of encouraging employers to employ unemployed persons who are over 55 years of age and who have been registered in unemployment records for at least six months prior to employment is introduced. In the event of employment of such an unemployed person, which will be concluded within the time of 1. 1. By the end of 2017, the employer will be fully exempt from payment of the employer’s social security contributions, irrespective of the system rules governing the payment of social security contributions for a maximum period of two years. The debate focused on the incentive to employ older unemployed persons and on the purpose of the law itself. Some discussers felt that the purpose of the law was good, but contributions should be reduced for all age groups, as this will also bring more jobs. The employment contract is also questionable if it is not for an indefinite period of time, since, without this guardian, employers will be able to use the measure and use it to conclude fixed-term contracts, which puts older workers who are difficult to employ into an even worse situation, a more reprehensible situation. It was also pointed out, as I mentioned in the introduction, what was also the opinion of the Committee of the State Council, the possible withdrawal of the funds of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, which are already too small without exemption for the normal development of the health system and for the smooth – when we speak of the intact – I think mainly without the assistance of the state budget – the payment of pensions. The Committee then voted, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the proposed amendments of the coalition which it adopted, as well as on all articles of the draft law which it also adopted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report that you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u143	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u144	Once again, a nice hello to you all. In short, I would like to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the law on labour market intervention. In our Desus Group we have advocated a serious and complex approach to solving the comprehensive and systemic problems of unemployment in Slovenia, as overall the state of unemployment has been critical for several years, especially in times of economic crisis, moving quite close to that critical peak, close to the critical limit of 130 000 unemployed, which we achieved in the years immediately after independence. Although the decline trend has been observed in the last period, the number of unemployed persons registered at the employment agency is, of course, significantly lower than that ceiling, but still stronger than 100,000, which is significantly too much. I would like to say that this is a shy but tangible decline in unemployment, and if such a trend continued, perhaps a slightly accelerated trend in the decline in unemployment, we could look optimisticly into the future. Although structural unemployment is a fundamental problem in our country, it is particularly worrying that the so-called long-term unemployment is on the rise in the overall story. Vulnerable target groups of the unemployed, which are also characterised by long-term unemployment, include, in particular, older persons over 55 years of age. Our country has one of the lowest working rates of the elderly in relation to the European Union countries, which was over 38% in 2014. The unemployment rate of the elderly is increasing. Since 2008, it has increased from 4% to almost 8% in 20014. The trend of older people's unemployment is much faster than in Europe. According to the Employment Office, the number of older unemployed persons doubled from 2008 to the first half of this year and reached 21,000. Among all employed persons over 55 years of age, the share is almost 19%. The proportion of the elderly has also increased markedly among the long-term unemployed, and this year they represent more than 55 years of age more than one quarter of all long-term unemployed. The numbers I have read are alarming, very eloquent, so of course it is necessary to act. It is also clear from the measures proposed by the law that the state or government has taken action. I also hope that the results will be visible as soon as possible. Following the example of an action for young people two years ago, today, as we say, such a law is before us. I sincerely hope that this law will bring at least the same results as that law, in which we have encouraged and successfully encouraged further accelerated employment among young people. In the Desus Group, we expect a good response from employers to the application of this measure, as payments of mandatory employer contributions will be exempt for both pension, disability, health and social insurance. Even more so, we would like to see these jobs for an indefinite period of time. But we also believe that this particular time will come at an indeterminate time and later in full retirement with a decent pension. This measure certainly means more opportunities to raise the rate of growth of work activity. Last but not least, and what matters most, which is this law, is the opportunity and opportunity for these people to get out of the vicious cycle of unemployment after a long time and get back in touch with the labour market, with work, with employers. In this way, they also have more opportunities for further employment, become competitive, taking advantage of their undisputed knowledge and long-term experience. Members and Members of the Desus Group are very fond of such and such measures, and we will be pleased to support them in the hope that they will deliver the desired results, such as some other targeted measures, aimed at amending employment laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone! In the Republic of Slovenia, the number of unemployed persons over 55 years of age is also gradually increasing as a result of population ageing. Their position in the labour market is poor compared to other age groups, as older employers are less interesting. The elderly thus remain unemployed for a long time and are heavily exposed to long-term unemployment and have a negative impact on the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement and thus on the social security of the individual. Social security Social Democrats are seen as an active aid to the public system in ensuring quality and decent living conditions. In ensuring equality between individuals, the State has an important task to address, in particular, the injustices of the market economy through tax and social policy and to ensure social security, which is the basis and most important effect of the solidarity society. The country's efforts to reduce the negative effects of ageing by encouraging the retirement of older people from the labour market as soon as possible, i.e. by promoting the employment of older people or by increasing the integration of inactive workers into the labour market, are therefore crucial. The purpose of this law is to provide for the possibility of applying temporary incentives for employment in the form of the exemption from payment of employers' social security contributions for a maximum of two years if they employ an unemployed person over 55 years of age who has been registered in the unemployment register for at least 6 months prior to employment. The employer will thus be fully exempt from payment of the employer's social security contributions in full, i.e. the employer's contribution to pension and disability insurance, health insurance, parental protection insurance and unemployment insurance. The applicant's assessment is 2 000 500 new employees over 55 years of age. The State must have mechanisms in place to correct injustices and inequalities, to establish security and to guide development. In the context of social protection policies, the State and local communities are obliged to provide conditions in which individuals can participate creatively and realize their development potential and by their activities achieve a quality of life which meets the criteria of human dignity. The draft law follows those requirements in its objective. Ensuring the possibility of applying a temporary incentive for the employment of older unemployed persons in the form of exempting the employer's contribution to social security for a maximum of two years is understood as a positive measure which creates conditions for a particular group of hard-working workers to be reintegrated into the labour market and thereby improve social security. We believe that it is the duty of the State to create equal opportunities for all people, so we welcome such a measure and will also support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left we do not, in principle, oppose the law. It is true that we generally do not support subsidisation of employees. The employee also receives much more from work than he spends on wages without a subsidy. Employment subsidies are only conditional for us if they are really vulnerable groups in the labour market. Unemployed workers over 55 years of age are certainly such a vulnerable group. This does not mean that the proposal before us today has no drawbacks. The main disadvantage is that it does not protect the worker sufficiently because it allows employment for a certain period of time. Another problem is that, due to the exemption, health and pension bills will have lower income. The exempt contributions under this proposal will not be paid by the Republic of Slovenia, which we have proposed with the amendment in the United Left, and this amendment has unfortunately been rejected on the Committee. Decommissioning for medical bills is a serious problem because these revenues are already too low. While the government assumes that this measure will give the institution more resources than it would have if it had not implemented the measures. But this assumption is unfounded. On the basis of this measure, employers will not go to the opening of some new jobs, but instead will hire older workers simply because they are cheaper because they come along with the subsidy. While the outage is acceptable to some extent because we talk about more difficult employees, it should be compensated on the other hand. Surely, the best compensation for all such measures would be the abolition of supplementary health insurance and its replacement with a solidarity public benefit. A bigger problem for us is the possibility of temporary employment. After the expiry of the exemption, the contract worker will simply not be extended. After two years, such a worker will return to the office as a hard-working person, and the problem of such a person will in no way be solved in the long run. We know why the social partners have agreed to such conditions. The older employee, the employer, as you would like, is more difficult to forgive and could therefore in practice not be able to bring such a measure to life. Let me point out here that such thinking is wrong. It is we in the policy of the National Assembly and in the Government, after all, who set minimum conditions for employment in this country. Scissors and wages are in our hands, so such arguments, excuses, if you want, just don't drink water. The State grants the employer a subsidy that reduces the cost of the company and gives it a competitive advantage over its competitors on the market. The EUR 000 gross exemption after two years amounts to EUR 3 000,864 of the subsidy. In return for these funds, which will be lost in our social registers, we are obliged to request employment for an indefinite period of time. A job for an indefinite period, however, is not a luxury in our country, not yet, thank God, but a legal norm. And if we give in here, the standard of all employees in the country will also deteriorate, because we are putting the social work anchor below the scale. In recent years, there has been a great deal of subsidisation of the employment of young workers in particular. And at that time, in their case, it has already been shown that the employees employ the employee for a certain period of time, that is true, and they collect the subsidy on that account, and they do not extend the contracts after the expiry of the measure. Therefore, the Ministry has systematically changed its policy and is now consistently demanding employment for an indefinite period of time, which is the right decision, a proper measure that should also be employed in this matter, which is before us today. All we ask in the United Left is that what we have provided for younger workers is also provided for the elderly. A job for an indefinite period is not a luxury, but a rule. And if it is not consistently enforced by the legislator, of course, the employers will be very happy to break it. On behalf of maintaining the labour law as a means of securing the worker in the United Left, we have also proposed to the budget amendments and work inspections to allocate half a million euros more for their operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u150	Dear President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, all present! The main objective of the proposed law is to respond to the growing long-term unemployment of people over 55 years of age. While the applicants expect the employment trend to continue and, as a result, the labour market situation will improve. However, Slovenia is well below the EU average in terms of employment and employment, and this is a very worrying data for us Christian Democrats. The Ministry proposes that an employer who employs an unemployed person over 55 years of age, who has been registered in the unemployment register for at least six months before, be exempt from payment of social security contributions for a maximum of two years. This option applies to fixed-term contracts and fixed-term contracts. But it is a condition that there is no intermediate interruption. Christian Democrats note that the results of the Youth Guarantee and the proposed solution are evidence that the burden of employers and employees on paying social contributions actually yields positive results. In its actions, the new Slovenia also proposes a measure to relieve the contributions of all employers and all employees. We hope that the extension of the measure to all age groups would bring more jobs and more jobs for an indefinite period of time. It appears that the competent ministry is still serving partial solutions to put out individual fires. Christian Democrats, however, call on everyone to take comprehensive systemic measures to increase employment. Only with new jobs can we turn the course of our country's development and afford a decent pay for honest work. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Your Honor, hello again! In the Group of Unaffiliated Members, we welcome the Government's intention to seek to contribute to their rapid and more stable employment by encouraging the employment of older unemployed people. In Slovenia, we have recently made a major effort to promote the employment of young people, who are also a vulnerable group, and because of the lack of experience, they find jobs more difficult. However, there was little talk of older unemployed people who may have these working experiences, but they are less interesting to employers for other reasons. Older unemployed persons are repeatedly hampered by an inadequate level of education, which is much lower compared to young people applying for the same jobs. I know very well that there were those of us who decided more than 40 years ago for high schools and later for colleges, just for a handful compared to today. Therefore, the proportion of registered unemployed who are over 50 years of age and only have primary education is the highest. In addition, according to the Andragog Centre of Slovenia, the older unemployed are most often lacking in the skills to use modern technologies and knowledge of foreign languages and entrepreneurship. They are also less interesting to employers, as today employers do not want to invest in the development of staff when they are once part of the company, but rather want to employ such a workforce. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the draft law before us, which provides for temporary incentives for the employment of older unemployed persons in the form of the exemption from payment of employers' social security contributions. Older workers are certainly less interesting for employers, but certainly not for a write-off. Therefore, such incentives can have a positive impact on the better integration of older people into society and on the reduction of social threats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u154	Dear President, Madam Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law on intervention measures in the field of labour market refers to one of the vulnerable groups of individuals, which are over 55 years of age. Following the example of an intervention measure to promote the employment of young people, which has proved successful in the last four years, the bill similarly seeks to encourage employers to employ long-term unemployed people over 55 years of age. In the case of employment of the unemployed person in this target group, the employer will be exempt from payment of contributions for a maximum period of 24 months and the insured person will nevertheless be entitled to the same amount of social security rights as if these contributions were paid. From a financial point of view, the measure has positive effects on the budget and on the social treasury. After a hypothetical calculation, which foresees around 7,000 targeted jobs per year, 18.2 million euro of additional revenue in the social treasury budget can be expected in two years. From the point of view of the individual or the elderly, however, the effect is much greater. The envisaged measure can enable the elderly to re-enter the labour market and society, to contact new knowledge, to acquire skills and, above all, to avoid the potential social exclusion of the elderly. According to the Employment Office, the unemployment of the elderly is less pronounced than that of all unemployment in the years when unemployment is growing rapidly. On the contrary, it happens to us at a time when unemployment is declining and younger job seekers are employed faster. At that time, the trend of increasing the unemployment of the elderly is evident, and the largest proportion is long-term unemployment. We cannot help but overlook the fact that the interest in hiring older people in employers is lower than in other age groups. Such decisions foster some facts, as well as attributes, such as that older people are less flexible than young people, that motivation to work over the years declines, that the knowledge they have acquired in the formal education process does not coincide with today's labour market conditions, that they are difficult to acquire new knowledge and so on. In the 1990s, the problem of the unemployment of the elderly was limited by early retirement, and today we seek to extend the retirement age and increase the retirement age. One such incentive was also provided for in Article 156 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which allows employers to partially exempt contributions to older workers, 30 % for those who have reached the age of 60 and 50 % for those who qualify for early retirement. The desired results of this measure are not available at the same time. As a result of the ageing of the population and the increasing expenditure on pensions, we will have to find lasting solutions in the future for the employment of the elderly and continue to encourage the extension of the pension age. In the SMC Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u156	President, thank you for your word. In Slovenia we have been talking about demographic issues for years, not only in Slovenia, but also in the European Union. As a result of population ageing and poor economic conditions, the number of unemployed, over 55 years of age in Slovenia is increasing, and employers do not show much interest in the employment of this age group. In fact, they say or justify this by making older people less adaptable, having fewer ICT competences and so on. In Slovenia we have one of the lowest working rates of over 55 years of age, which was 38.4% in 2014. Even in Slovenia, the rate of unemployed older than 55 years is increasing faster than in other European countries and it is estimated that the rate of employment will remain below the average of the European Union for over 55 years. The Labour Market Intervention Act, which we have before us, provides incentives for employers who, under certain conditions, would employ over 55 years of age. Employers should be exempt from social security contributions for a maximum of two years in such employment, and the applicant should be entered in the unemployment register for at least 6 months before that. The government is planning to employ more than 7,000 people annually through this intervention measure. But we have a dilemma about what will happen to these older people after two years. So the law will apply until December 2017, and what will happen after these two years? Will it be possible for those who will be able to work for a certain period of time under another intervention measure, or how else? We still do not solve this high level of unemployment systematically over 55 years of age. Of course, the unemployment situation must also be seen wider. We still have people working in certain jobs who meet the conditions for retirement, and they are still in jobs. We do not have a systemic solution to the problem of long-term unemployed. In fact, with intervention measures such as the Youth Guarantee and this labour market intervention measure for older than 55 years, we can say that we are only putting out fires. In the Slovenian Democratic Republic, we believe that more activities and more measures, concrete measures, are needed to create greater flexibility in the labour market in order to set up more employment strategies and measures for more jobs. Then there will be no need for intervention measures such as the one before us today. At the same time, the issue of long-term unemployed persons in the 30-55-year-old group also arises. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned about this area or the long-term unemployed in this target group. We have the Youth Guarantee, somewhere up to 30 years old, now we have an intervention measure in the labour market for those over 55 years. What's going on between the ages of 30 and 55, I can tell you, we're just sealing our eyes. In this age period, you are young, as well as those who are a little older, who have families and who can be very social distresses, for these are also families with more children. I think that these intervention measures, once again, are putting out fires, but we do not have a system of regulation to essentially reduce long-term unemployment and we do not have measures to increase the number of jobs so that such intervention measures do not occur. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, despite these concerns, we will support the law, and I say once again, it is only a matter of putting out the fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Who wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u158	President, thank you for your word. In the United Left, we are indeed proposing an amendment to replace the contract of employment with an indefinite contract. If we accept this amendment, the employer, who will be entitled to the exemption, will have to hire the worker for an indefinite period of time. What we would like to achieve is to avoid the abuse of such intervention measures, which have been common in the past, the Ministry has only identified them, and, when we talk about the case of young people and the subsidisation of youth employment, it has upgraded its policy accordingly on the basis of these findings. Someone was hired for a certain period of time, and after two years they simply did not extend the contract. And that is unacceptable, after all, not only for moral reasons but also for legal reasons. In principle, employment for a certain period of time is allowed by law only exceptionally, but what is happening is that in practice this guard is very often played and not respected. The labour inspection in our country is all too nourished, financially, human resources, so that all cases of such abuses of the labour law that are occurring can be sanctioned because employers are simply too many. The number of employees in the labour inspection is decreasing, while the number of economic operators is increasing. That is why, in the United Left, we have proposed an amendment that provides for a work inspection of half a million euros more money. Of course, in the United Left, we agree with the dilemmas of the drafters of this law as to whether they should be included as a condition for subsidising this employment, including contracts for indefinite periods. A worker over 58 years of age is actually quite difficult to forgive for business reasons. And, yes, in fact, some of the employees will turn it away from employment. But here we have to ask ourselves, we have to weigh value if you want to, or even want to subsidize those employers who are doing something like that. In this country, employment for a certain period of time is supposed to be a standard, not an exception. If we allow someone not to adhere to this norm, but at the same time we reward them with a subsidy that is difficult to deal with, 4 000 euro, for this kind of action, then we are really blaming ourselves for the fact that society is driving us into an ever-increasing excess of work relations and that jobs are becoming less stable and allowing employees less and less social security. With our amendment to the United Left, we want to prevent exactly this. Socialists also understand that we are talking about an intervention measure, but the proportion of the older unemployed is very high. But at the same time, once again, in this debate, we must not forget that the employer will gain a significant financial advantage in return for hiring someone older and thus a competitive advantage in the market. And we can rely on a profit motive that drives forward the capitalist economy, that someone who employs a subsidy or without it will certainly not hire someone who is no longer able to work. He's going to hire people who can work normally, who can normally carry money to the company, and who are going to be cheaper for him eventually. We subsidise such people for employees with this measure. If I say it again and point out the case. In paying a thousand euros gross, this exemption will bring a competitive advantage to the employee of the poor 4 000 euros in the market in two years. And if it's not enough for someone to hire a worker for an indefinite period of time, then I really don't know what else we can do without briefly violating all the employment standards in this country. If they had agreed to work for a certain period of time, they would have agreed to social dumping. And that's something that we certainly don't want in the United Left, and not least is something that we shouldn't want in this entire national assembly. And if I go from one Member to another, I am sure that everyone will answer me that social dumping is a bad thing. Here I would appeal to your mission, to your commitment to the social state, which you often express to support our amendment and to enable the employment of the elderly under conditions of social security, under conditions of employment for an indefinite period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. There's someone else who wants to discuss it. Here you go, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Ge for the substantive amendment as already tabled by the United Left on the Committee. In this regard, it is my view that the special situation of older people in the labour market by proposing this law encourages the conclusion of a contract of employment for any time, i.e. for a certain or indefinite period, because it is a matter of employment as a way out of some unemployment, which also has other effects for the individual. From the point of view of the elderly, these effects are much greater than those of the job itself. This is a re-entry into the labour market, into society, in contact with new knowledge, in the prevention of social exclusion and so on, and I think this should be taken into account in particular. However, if we compare this intervention measure with the youth employment intervention measure to which you compare it, it has attached an indefinite term of employment to the exemption of young people from the payment of contributions. It should therefore be pointed out that in 2011, when an intervention law for youth employment was first established, there was a marked segmentation in the labour market. Among the employed young people, there were about 66% of those who had been employed for a certain period of time. However, when we compared them with a group of employees over 55 years of age, we could see that there are only about 4% of those who have been employed for a certain period of time in this age group. So it's a big difference. At the time of the adoption of the Youth Employment Intervention Act, the Treaty for a certain period of time was the opposite of the exception between young people and in the age group over 55 years of age. So it's an exception to the rule. Young people are a special category in the labour market and the fixed-term contract is of exceptional importance to them from another point of view. As is the case with specific aspects for older than 55 years, which I mentioned earlier, other aspects are important for young people. It's about a period when young people are making families when they're supposed to leave their primary home, take on some social responsibility, it's about some kind of security they need, and so on. This is an essential distinguishing element between one group and another group, and I don't think it's possible to overlook it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. If the world were to rotate perfectly, then I would immediately sign under the amendment of the United Left. However, since the world is spinning cruelly, I must say that it would be good for the Ministry of Labour to be commended at some point, even though you are a socialist or I am a social democrat. If everything was as simple as the United Left states, then there would be no problem, then there should be no need to adopt intervention law at all, then employers would employ experienced workers, workers with some habits and would not be doing so. Today, if we look at it, we see young people in the employment agency of the oldest people. At the same time, companies went bankrupt and landed at the employment agency. And now this reality that I would like to tell the United Left, there is no employer in Slovenia, unfortunately, who would hire an older man. First of all, because he's afraid of the sick, and secondly, because he knows he's going to retire soon and he's going to have to resign. Let's face it, that's the situation. Since the Ministry has detected the problem, it has been done with this intervention law, and this will give employers little to think that it might be worth it. Because the people are only looking over their finances. If it's worth hiring an older man with experience, he'll get something else for it. And believe me, this is how employers are going to decide to hire older people. And believe me, the older one who will be a good worker will certainly extend his employment to a pension if I say so. It's nice to be an idealist, but I think it's wiser to be a realist in these difficult times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I'll just respond to the last two interventions. Mrs Janja Sluga cited all the beauty of the social effects of employment for a certain period of time, all the beauty, and only among them the key – social security. And people don't need all the external positive social effects when they're looking for their jobs, but they're looking for and need some social security in particular. Everything else is just an embellishment of some drastic situation in some hard-working group in the labour market. We were also able to hear from colleagues in neighboring seats how they are facing a cruel world. Obviously, we are not faced with such a harsh world that employers would not be able to afford a low €4,000 subsidy, which is also an answer to the thought that someone will not be willing to hire someone over 55 years of age. Yeah, that's not true. That's why we're giving him a subsidy. Therefore, it will gain a competitive advantage on the market between competing economic operators. That's why we don't last allocate funds. As for comparisons with young people, it was in young people that it proved to be why we needed the term of employment for an indefinite period of time. Because otherwise, employers just abuse, take a man for those two years instead of someone else, "pull" a subsidy, and after those two years, the situation resets. And the long-term position of a person in the labour market is in no way regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Any other discussion? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 37th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on the enforcement of public funds rights by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u166	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! It is now the last of the budget laws relating to the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. We wanted all four laws to be regarded as a package within which we tried to release as much as possible the measures that were put in place with Zujf. In this proposal, the ZUPJS, which is before you, we are actually regulating three areas and we are releasing some of Zujf's actions. Families receiving the 5th and 6th grades of the children’s supplement will no longer have a reduction of 10 % in these children’s allowances. 3 000 200 more students and students will be entitled to a state scholarship because we are releasing part of the 5th class of state scholarships. However, we have to say that the savings in the implementation of the child supplement received by parents in the 7th and 8th classes are those with net average income higher or between 64 and 90% of the average net salary in the Republic of Slovenia. The second set of measures proposed in this Act provides for additional debt relief for a certain narrower segment of persons who are at 31. 12. In 2011 they were entitled to financial social assistance and would then, by implementing new legislation, have to pay excessively paid social transfers to this law on the exercise of rights from public funds. And then a third novelty, we propose that the country can also pay for social transfers to the prepaid card, which is part of the aid package adopted this summer. With this proposal, we want the most vulnerable recipients of rights under the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, i.e. those receiving financial social assistance, a protective allowance, a child allowance, where the recipient is a recipient of a financial social assistance or a security allowance and cannot open a bank account and the recipients who cannot fully dispose of these funds because of the various executions would receive these benefits through a prepaid card. This proposal does not regulate the content of the prepaid card itself, but in fact the basis that we will be able to implement this prepaid card in practice. So I also ask you to support these proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Hello again, all present! As it is said, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has considered the proposal for a law on the exercise of rights from public resources as a parent working body at its 21st session 11. 11. 2015, on the basis of a decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly following an urgent procedure. The work of the committee itself was carried out by the competent Ministry of Labour and the public concerned. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which assessed the proposal or examined it in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made some comments which were taken into account through the amendments adopted. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Social Council, work, health care and disabled persons, which supports the proposal of the law. They expressed their satisfaction, inter alia, that the amendment of the law partially improves or at least does not exacerbate the socio-economic situation of beneficiaries of public funds rights. They welcomed the return of the right to state scholarships to all those whose average monthly income per person does not exceed 56 % of the salary and the increase in the amount of the child allowance in the 5th and 6th grades to the level before the implementation of the so-called austerity measures. The proposer stressed that the proposed amendment follows measures for further fiscal consolidation, which, inter alia, stipulate that such measures will be taken in the field of transfers to individuals and households, which, taking into account the objective of achieving the medium-term structural balance, will also ensure an adequate socio-economic position for individuals. It has also been said that, due to the proposed amendments to the law we are currently discussing, an additional €3.7 million in the state budget should be provided for 3 000 218 new beneficiaries of state grants. During this transitional period, all those whose average monthly income per person does not exceed 56 % of the net average salary will benefit from this State grant, taking into account both cumulative conditions already discussed in previous proposals of the law. Maybe even a kid's allowance. It was clarified that the proposed amendment was intended to extend the measures to limit the child allowance to beneficiaries of the 7th and 8th income classes. However, the amounts of the child allowance in the 5th and 6th grades are increased to a level before the austerity measures are implemented and remain higher due to the partial release of austerity measures in the area of State grants for beneficiaries from 56 % to 64 % of the average monthly income per person. The discussion below focused on the envisaged measures for further financial consolidation in the field of transfers, i.e. benefits to individuals and households. Some discussers considered that the extension of the measure under the Public Finance Balance Act by requiring, in addition to the already met condition of economic growth, the fulfilment of the condition that the increase in the rate of employment in the 20-64 age group exceeds 1,3 % points in their view to tightening the conditions for the payment of transfers to individuals and households. Following a rather lengthy discussion, the Committee voted, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the proposed amendments to the coalition, the consequences of the recommendations or findings of the Legislative and Legal Service and adopted them, as well as on all articles of the draft law which it also adopted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is also an integral part of the report you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u170	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law on the exercise of rights from public funds falls within the category of normative acts that provide for systemic solidarity and social cohesion in a significant part. Its importance thus implies that it is one of the laws most necessary to ease, within the framework of the possibility and the public financial situation, the limitation of the enforcement of rights arising from the Public Finance Balance Act adopted as a response, not necessarily the most optimal, to the financial and economic crisis that has plagued Slovenia and Europe since 2008. The present novel is thus responding to three important sets where, to the greatest extent possible, the current situation releases the exercise of rights from public funds. In the area of child allowances, it is therefore proposed for the 5th and 6th income classes to increase the amounts by around 10%, i.e. to the level before the provisional austerity measures are implemented. Since the beneficiaries in the 5th and 6th income classes are around 97 000, this means that for a fairly important segment of the population we increase the amount of children's allowances and relieve them of the effects of Zujf. In the area of state scholarships, we can continue to count on the release of a temporary austerity measure, which will further justify approximately 3 000 200 scholarships to state scholarships, which is an important step forward in ensuring equal access to education and knowledge and access to a quality existential framework. The content and financial innovation is thus complemented by additional debt relief for the slightly smaller framework of the socially weak and the regulation of certain elements necessary for the implementation of the pre-payment card measure, whereby the most vulnerable recipients of the rights that cannot open the bank account and the recipients who cannot fully have these funds to receive, for example, child allowances through these pre-paid cards. As the proposed amendments continue to consolidate public finances while strengthening the system of solidarity and the position of the middle class and the weakest, we will support the new proposal in the Social Democrats Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, chairman. We do not support this proposal in the United Left. The novelty, in our view, is unnecessary, as all restrictions should simply be removed. The measures taken by the Public Finance Balance Act were completely unjustified at the time of adoption. Social transfers also have very beneficial economic effects because they function as an economic stabiliser in the crisis. They reduce too much demand and thus reduce the reduction of gross social product, thus helping to maintain economic activity. Given that two years of growing gross social product have now been behind us, these apparent economic reasons for limiting social rights are therefore no longer in place. The State grant is also a social right, although the censorship is high enough and we must not forget it and we must say it honestly and openly. The incomes of these families, which are now not eligible for State grants, are above average. In the case of a four-member family, they only exceed such a price if both parents have a personal income of at least 1.3 average wages. This is, of course, medium-layer households, or we are speaking numerically about less than a third of households, in the upper third. But it is also not a common social transfer that would be aimed at eradicating poverty. The scholarship is the income of a young man, a student who has already completed his schooling. So it's the income of a young autonomous person. The scholarship enables or at least strengthens this independence, so it is also appropriate that students from families that do not undoubtedly fall into the poor family category. The question here is similar to the issue of maternity pay, which is not a measure against poverty, but a measure aimed at reducing gender inequalities. Here we achieve in a broader sense similar social effects by allowing the autonomy of a young adult. In addition, we must be aware that many students do not go to school in a place where they are permanently settled. This creates additional costs, which also justify the grant. It should be noted here that two very important supplements are attached to scholarships. A student who lives at home is not entitled to an allowance for stay and a granter with special needs is not entitled to an allowance for special needs. And a student who doesn't get a scholarship doesn't get these very important supplements either, which probably doesn't already cover the extra costs that come in. On the basis of all of this, we have concluded in the United Left that restrictions on scholarships should be lifted. Again today, I would like to stress that additional funds could be obtained, in which case the poor 14 million euros could be obtained without any debt, only if the government had consistently carried out its own mini tax reform. It is therefore quite incomprehensible for us why the government, which already knows that next year it will come to the table with tax reform and increase revenue, does not use these additional revenues to resolve the pressing social issues. It just doesn't make any sense. I also repeat that, over the long term, with serious taxation of capital and the introduction of a social tax on real estate, much more could be achieved than these small urgent corrections. In addition to tax measures, the revenue towards our public resources would also be further increased by the abolition of supplementary health insurance and the introduction of solidarity public insurance for long-term care. Therefore, in this context, the Government's claims that in the social field has done everything possible are short-circuited. If we can do everything we can, indeed, with a sincere intention on the part of the government and the government coalition, then we can support our proposals, which add an additional 140 million euros a year to the Slovenian budget, which we have submitted in the United Left and support our proposals to eliminate extreme poverty in Slovenian society with the means we would thus acquire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u174	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The new Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, considered by the applicants in the budget package for the closure of budgets for 2016 and 2017, entails an extension, a partial release of the measures of the ULJF in the field of child supplement, in the field of scholarships for underage students and, at the same time, a tightening of the conditions for their full release. The proposers themselves recognise that the restrictions from the ZUJF should be lifted by 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, since they think this would be too much financial burden for the state budget, they propose to extend and further tighten the conditions for their release. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no contribution to family policy measures and it must not be a burden, but the best investment in the future of this country. In Novi Slovenija, it seems unacceptable that the conditions for the total release of the ULJF measures for children's allowance and scholarships should be tightened. As with the New Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, we can ask ourselves what is in the future and when this cumulative condition will ever be fulfilled. Also in this law, Christian Democrats claim that the coalition of temporary measures works on a permanent basis. We have once again tabled an amendment to Article 2, by which we wish to abolish the unfair provision of the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds, which, taking into account the children's allowances received, may reduce or even withdraw the possibility of receiving State grants to older children from the same family. This injustice hurts the most and affects large families and families from the countryside. With this amendment, we want to ensure equal opportunities for education for pupils from the outermost regions of Slovenia compared to those who live in the place of education. And what is very important to us is that the impact of this criminal provision that we want to amend is greater in families with higher child allowances due to low incomes. So they're weaker on the worse. Christian Democrats will only support the law if our amendment is adopted. Otherwise, we'll be against the news.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, for the last time in this package of laws, welcome! On the one hand, the law on the exercise of rights from public resources entails an extension of certain austerity measures and, on the other hand, increases the amount of the child allowance by 5th and 6th grades or restores them to the level before 2012 when they were reduced by 10%. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we understand, of course, that the Government's agreement on the cut-off of funds belonging to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and that the Government is severely limited in increasing funds. We support the Minister's efforts to ensure the release of funds for some of the measures, but at the same time we cannot go beyond the fact that other measures are regarded as reverse. Not only are the funds not being released, but in our opinion they are changing into permanent measures, as more conditions must be met in order to relax also in the case of the law before us. Since we also need to achieve a 1.3% increase in the rate of employment in addition to GDP growth after the new one, we ask ourselves in the Group of Non-Aligned Members when we will achieve such a high value, or whether this is perhaps a covert transformation of temporary action into a permanent one. When considering the proposal for a new Law on the enforcement of rights from public funds, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that we think it is misleading to have children's allowances increased. It is true that for the 5th and 6th income classes they will return to the value before Zujf, but for the most vulnerable groups, persons up to the 5th income class, unfortunately this year do not rise but remain at the same level. As we have pointed out several times, it is understandable that there is not enough resources in the budget for all the measures we would like to release, but the recovery of the economy should give us optimism so that we can release the measures as soon as possible and thus take even more care of the most vulnerable groups. It is therefore surprising that the Government decided to further tighten the conditions for the release of measures, which were clearly marked as temporary at the time of the introduction. Nevertheless, we hope that in the coming years we will also achieve the required growth in the level of work and that the Government will not, unlike today, decide to reinvigorate the conditions. We will not oppose the draft law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u178	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! As part of the legal provisions relating to the implementation of the 2016 and 2017 State budget, we are also considering the amendment of the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds, which in part releases austerity measures in the field of child allowances and state scholarships. The proposal for a law prolongs the restriction of the child allowance for beneficiaries in the 7th and 8th income classes or for those families whose monthly income per family member is over 44 % of the average net salary. The amount of the child supplement shall be restored in the 5th and 6th classes before the entry into force of Zujf and shall therefore be increased by 10 %. With the implementation of the bill, a three-member family with one child, whose income is in the 5th income class, will be entitled at annual level to a good €57 more than before, and a four-member family with two children with about € 124 more than before. If we look at the new amount of the children's allowance for families belonging to the 6th income class, we find that a 3-year-old family with one child at the new level will be entitled to about €36 more and a 4-year-old family with two children will be more than now. This measure will cover around 98 000 beneficiaries, which means that it will slightly improve the position of the middle class. The amount of the State grant is also linked to the child allowance. According to the new State grant, those whose average monthly income per person does not exceed 56 % of the net average wage will be eligible. In this way there will be around 3 000 200 new beneficiaries of state scholarships. Both the measure by which we increase the amount of the child allowance in the 5th and 6th income classes, as the measure by which part 5 of the State grant income class is released, will not exceed 1,3 % in force until economic growth reaches 2,5 % of the gross domestic product and the level of employment. This condition has already been clarified in the light of social rights, labour rights, paid contributions and the ability to recover the labour market and new jobs. The bill introduces another important solution. This is the possibility of repayment of debt to those beneficiaries of cash social assistance and a security allowance which, as from 1 January 2012, had already been recipients of cash social assistance or a security allowance and had received overpayments under the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits. Debt is more than three years old and the probability of recovery is very low. The novelty of the bill also includes the introduction of a legal basis for the payment of certain social transfers, namely monetary social assistance, a protective allowance and a child allowance, on prepaid cards, which will enable recipients of these allowances to enjoy greater social security when it comes to the enforcement of the enforcement decision or when the person receiving those social transfers cannot therefore open the transaction account to which those funds could be referred. The draft law allows improvements in the material situation of families belonging to the 5th and 6th grades for the child supplement and partly to those in the 5th income class for state scholarships. We will support this law in the Modern Centre Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is intended to release certain austerity measures in the area of family policy or in the field of child allowances and state scholarships, according to the Government. At the same time, the proposaler made the following clear: "We are proposing an amendment to follow up on measures for further fiscal consolidation." We can read that it is a matter of prolonging the validity of individual austerity measures. If existing legislation had been in force so far, the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds provided for the release of austerity measures in the field of state grants at 2.5 per cent of economic growth and therefore for the release of state grants in the 6th, 7th and 8th grades. In this case, the government noted that 13.5 million additional funds should be provided for around 11 000 800 new beneficiaries. The government states that this was an excessive burden for the budget. It therefore extends the transitional period or lays down new austerity limits by means of a proposal for a law. The new conditions are 2.5% GDP growth and at the same time an increase in labour activity in the age group between 20 and 64 years, so the rate must be 1.3%. However, 56 % of the average net salary per family member shall be determined by censorship. Therefore, the measures continue to apply to the 7th and 8th income classes as a certain bitter candy is partially released for the 6th grade. However, the same or even stricter conditions apply in the field of child supplements. The current legislation provides for the release of austerity measures when a 2% GDP growth is achieved. The new bill provides for new austerity conditions, namely GDP growth 2.5%, while increasing employment rates in the age group from 20 to 64 1.3%. Again with a bitter taste, children’s allowances increase partially in the 6th grade. We can conclude from the amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, that, in the field of State grants and child allowances, nothing changes completely for the socially weak families. Children’s allowances do not increase for families with lower incomes, nor do they grant a higher state grant. The measures introduced by the Government are, in our view, permanent. The working rate in the age group of 20 out of 64 years of the 1.3% point was achieved only once in the history of the Slovenian country in 2003. We can therefore say that the proposed austerity measures are sustainable. The country intends to save 9.82m euros on state scholarships and 16.2m euros on child allowances at the expense of the socially weak. Together, then, a little over €26 million. The government also states that the proposal will have no other impact on public finances, but will have consequences for citizens, especially those living below the poverty threshold or at the social bottom. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose two amendments to suspend or return to the measures in force under such a criticised law in Zuyf. The conditions in Zuif are met and would be with 1. 1. 2016 meant the end of savings. Unfortunately, our amendments have been rejected on the Committee, so we can conclude that the coalition does not wish to abolish austerity measures in the area of state scholarships and child allowances. Nevertheless, we call for you to support our amendments, which allow for the immediate release of austerity measures in the area of child allowances and state scholarships. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In short, in the position of the Desus Group on the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, the so-called ZUPJS, of course. This is the law, the fourth today, which we are addressing from the so-called social package of laws relating to the implementation of budgets in 2016 and 2017, and, as such, in some ways dictates, the need to extend certain austerity measures. In this specific law, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds is about saving children's allowances and state scholarships. It is not the total release of the infamous Zujf, but for the parental protection segment and family benefits provided for an additional four million euros in the 2016 budget, compared to this year's, in the area of gifted scholarships, state scholarships and so on, almost 32 million additional funds. But unfortunately, we find that's not enough. Despite 65 million additional resources in the budget of the Ministry of Labour, this is not enough to phase out manual measures in the area of parental protection, families and so on so that these measures are still necessary. It is certainly not about measures that would cement themselves, which would become permanent, but we are still prolonging them in some way. I hope not for long. Despite the fact that, for the most part, the State intends to save on expenditure for the category of these two rights, which I have mentioned, it is necessary to know that the financial resources are at least partially released. While they are released in a way to release restrictions in the 5th and 6th grades when the limit is no longer minus 10%, which actually means an increase of 10%, if this is the way you want to interpret it, or the saving in the 5th and 6th classes for the Zujfov 10%, as well as for the 7th and 8th classes, the two highest classes. That's how we soften Zuif, I think it's obvious. Funding for state grants is also being released, within the framework of the 5th Income Class. State grants will be eligible for more than 3 000 200 people or families, more than so far, for which more than €3.7 million is earmarked in the budget next year in this segment. I already told Desus in one of the previous performances that we are socially sensitive. And that's obvious. However, we want more than what the country offers, both in terms of these rights and in relation to rights in other areas or in other transfers to individuals and households. Of course, we are aware that one swallow does not yet bring spring. Our economy is recovering, and this is evident. The share of the unemployed is declining, the macroeconomic prospects are favourable for the coming years, but we need to be careful here and not immediately remove the hand brakes, to have in mind, in particular, that we will consolidate public finances in the medium term, especially in the long term, and also to bear in mind that we are back for a while, perhaps someone will laugh at me once again, when I repeat this, with a bit of shivering hand to support the Fiscal Rule Act, which some have also called the Golden Fiscal Rule, which, now that we are talking about the release of measures, is not as much gold as it can be seen or heard at first sight. Caution must continue to be exercised and, above all, a rational and effective policy on the payment of social transfers and the provision of parental protection. As it is said, in the Desus Group we will support this law in the same way as the previous three social laws in the situation that they promise, but they are not yet as they all wish together. By not making it worse, on the contrary, by improving the social situation of the most vulnerable target groups, we hope that this will actually be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the two amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia of the Christian Democrats. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. Not only do I have the hope of raising hope, but I am sure that everything that has been said in my previous debates, in the discussions of the coalition Members and Members, will actually take place in the realization of this government's established Ministry of Labour, which does not have an easy task. In practice, there are still some restrictive measures everywhere, and if it is to be 100 % effective and 100% effective to implement what it has written in its programming platforms, some million euros in each segment would be needed to actually make this happen. There's something you need to be aware of. When I heard through the budget debates and through the debate on this package treatment of these four "social" laws that it would be very nice to be able to release completely all measures, so that also the 8th and 9th classes would return, so that virtually no segment of the long-term unemployed would have to be favoured, help him not in the vicious cycle of unemployment for more time to raise all kinds of parental compensation to 100% if we already have 365 days as the only country in the world. But unfortunately that's not going to work. It would be nice if we could do that. At the same time, it would also be highly recommended, very nice, to relieve the economy of its foundation. But then I wonder, on the one hand, I would give it to everyone, I truly and truly believe that we all want it. On the other hand, this one, and this one, is a burdensome payment of contributions. But unfortunately, that doesn't work together. Unfortunately, this doesn't work out at least in my logic. We would quickly come to this embarrassment that we would like to devote these funds to those who actually need them, given that so many would not come into the budget itself and in both the cash registers, both health and pension. I sincerely hope that all these objectives, which are written here in the explanations that the Ministry has also said, will not be enough for the finance ministry to satisfy those ambitions, those desires, some of you have estimated that these are too little ambitions, a rather ambitious plan, that unfortunately those target groups who unfortunately cannot help themselves for that reason or for that reason alone and are in need of state aid, so there is also a country, so there is no jungle here, that they will not actually be affected and that those who are unemployed will return as quickly as possible to the cycle of the labour market and will renew their knowledge and help society to achieve better results. And of course, all those who create, which is indisputable, and here I cannot agree with all of you, this means the economy, that it will breathe, that there will be as few administrative obstacles as possible, that there will be as few stupid bureaucratic rules as possible and that they will be able to live up to their ideas, their business ideas. And here I see that symbiosis. Symbiosis between the real sector and between, say, the unrealistic sector when it comes to financing on the basis of what you choose in the budget. And maybe another thought. Here I find it artificially a barrier between three sets, three segments of beneficiaries receiving funds from the state budget, these are public servants on the one hand, recipients of social, family and other transfers, on the other hand, and, if you want, pensioners on the third hand, I do not think it makes sense. Everyone needs these funds. A comprehensive state policy, not a sectoral policy, but a comprehensive one-round policy, such as social family employment, housing and could also be listed, must, of course, go hand in hand here and then I see no reason not to be successful on this path. We can't be too hasty, sometimes we've done something too fast or they've done it or you've done it, so we can't be too quick here. However, it is important to be rational, be considerate and take into account all the competitive advantages we have and all the positive forecasts we receive from international foreign institutions and make maximum use of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. When I listen to my colleague from Desus, I only hope that the Government will finally bring all those measures to the National Assembly, strategies, I don't know, concrete targets that will remove all these administrative obstacles, bureaucracy, increase the development of the economy. But I have to say, it's hard to believe this is going to happen. If one minister says the public sector has driven development, then such things are difficult to expect. So let's also be a little rational, but real when you talk about these things, and don't have double vats. When we talk about pensions, austerity measures after your own initiative must stop immediately when GDP growth is 2.5%. I don't mind, I agree. But then I don't know why children's allowances and scholarships are such a problem. But here you don't have the same vats when you say cut off the austerity measures. That we don't trigger or that you won't trigger an intergenerational dispute on the government if you know what I mean. It's not a fight, it's a slow one. Because when it comes to pensions, we talk about relaxing right away. When we talk about baby supplements, scholarships for young people, then let us be realistic and look with real eyes. I don't mind aligning pensions with GDP growth, I don't mind increasing child support. But let's watch it all the same way, why stop saving once and for all. As for the unemployment rate, when you talk about how it's always lower. I'd be interested to see the statistics that the employment department has. It has two types of statistics. Unemployment, which is shown to be lower, also arises because we have certain intervention measures. We will now have an intervention measure in the employment of over 55 years of age, so that they will not be considered unemployed, then we have the Youth Guarantee, they are not considered unemployed, then we have an active employment policy, education, training in the workplace, public works, and they are not unemployed in this statistics. But that's not true, it's a seemingly declining unemployment rate. Give me those real numbers. Since the one in public works is one year employed and then again unemployed, there are quite a few. And then the job training, two months, three months, then he's unemployed forward, mostly. Because all those who go into this, the employers there surround themselves with the possibility of no further employment. With these statistics, let us operate, or it would be good to see that real statistics. As regards these austerity measures or the extension of austerity measures in the field of State grants and child allowances. As we look at the children’s allowances, the scary Zuyf we hear about in this National Assembly has not yet been proposed by any coalition party to change its articles. In 2012, it was stated that restrictions are made on child allowances until economic growth exceeds 2,5 % of GDP, a limit of 64 % of net average wages, i.e. up to the 6th income class and a reduction of 10 % in the 5th and 6th income classes. That's what Zuif does. What have you done now? You added an additional condition, 2.5% of economic growth, while also requiring that the increase in the rate of activity in the age group between 20 and 64 should exceed 1.3%. And now you say you don't sharpen the terms. In Zujf there was 2.5% of GDP and you add an additional condition: the rate of employment of 1.3%. And we all know that this condition was reached only in 2003. And now you're saying you didn't give any additional terms. These two conditions will at the same time never be met, not in two years, not in three, as was said on the committee's side, I think, the secretary. Who are you throwing sand in your eyes now? And in the end, I say again, as with the committee, it's going to be pianist that you've increased children's allowances by one part, not from one to five income classes that are the most socially weak. Nothing in there. That's where you gave them an extra condition. You will not do anything in that area until this is accomplished, while those who are above the sixth income class, seventh, eighth grade, will not receive child support. Prolonging austerity and tightening austerity measures is because you want to save. The government itself wrote that it is not able to get enough money and that it will save a little over €16 million on children's allowances. And now you say, yes, but we've given it a little bit. You've given me a trifle, and you've sharpened the terms. And when you tell a guy in the fourth grade who's in that censor that he doesn't change, that he doesn't get any higher child support, he falls out. They don't understand. But you're selling to increase child support and reduce austerity measures. Yeah, just in that segment, in that one piece of the sixth income class. That's why our amendment deletes this paragraph. Once again, Zujf has set limits on the child allowance, only those whose average monthly income per person is at the limit of EUR 631 are entitled to it, that is, the sixth income class, have at the same time set the limits for these austerity measures to end with the year following the year in which the economic growth will be 2,5 % of GDP. You, once again, have added further to these measures, i.e. the work activity of 1.3%, and we, by this amendment, essentially this saving measure of yours, which is sharper than Zuif, are being deleted, and we want to see the austerity measures in the area of children's allowances released, as economic growth was 2.5%. When Zujf was taken, it was clearly stated that once certain conditions were met, the austerity measures would be over. But that's a good thing for you. But it's good for you to make excuses for Zuyf, and then add a little bit more to it, and you say, eh, because that's what Zuyf has already prescribed, and we're going to increase it a little bit here so we don't get so ugly. Tell me in real terms you're tightening the conditions. It's the same with state scholarships. There were also restrictions on state scholarships, according to Zujf 2.5% GDP growth, but you have now added an increase in the rate of employment in the age group from 20 to 64 years of age 1.3% points. You've added. The one who studied either the mathematician or the electrician knows what it means and, or, at the same time. There is either – or, one condition or another, but both conditions at the same time. I would like to ask the representatives of the Government when these two conditions will be reached at the same time in order to release austerity measures in the field of state grants and child allowances. When will these two conditions be fulfilled at the same time? So 2.5% GDP growth and at the same time an increase in the rate of labour activity from 20 to 64 years of 1.3% point. That's one question for the government. The second question for the government is – what would be the scholarships, state scholarships, child allowances, parental compensation, would it be greater or smaller if this law were not adopted?, a clear answer, what would be the child's allowances, state scholarships if we were now in this law if this law were not adopted. Bigger, smaller, same as what income class? I ask for specific answers, because then the public will know what you are doing with this law. At this point, I would like to call once again on the coalition or everyone in the Chamber to vote for our two amendments, which eliminate these tight austerity conditions, which essentially put them back on Zuyf, which is talking about 2.5% of GDP, then suspend the temporary austerity measures, and you are prolonging them by doing so. Our amendments are putting an end to this. I would ask for answers from the Government, what would have happened if this law had not been adopted and when the two conditions you placed in this law would have been fulfilled at the same time. But please, not for the answers that were on the board, if you do, we'll make it so that in two years, maybe in three years. When exactly do you expect these conditions to be fulfilled at the same time?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Urosh Prikl, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Pensions have not been harmonised for a decade; in the middle of 0.1%, some years ago there was harmonisation. So much for the illustration. The worst thing that can happen to us right now and here is that we start paying public servants' salaries in this triangle, paying pensions and paying all possible transfers from the budget to individuals and households to tighten the situation and work in some way competitively between these three groups, if I may say so. That doesn't make any sense. They're very special categories. I agree that the driver of the success of the public sector cannot be. I hope to say that the public sector is mathematically needed, but is not a sufficient condition. It must be accompanied by an effective monitoring of the economy. I'm guessing we're all in this room in agreement. That pensioners are entitled to pensions that maintain real value. However, they maintain real value through coordination. He doesn't seem to have anything to do with it. They're probably necessary. 40 years from now, you're working and paying for retirement and medical bills, and they're charging you for your budget, so I guess you can get a decent life, not for living or "screaking" on your old age, and I'm sorry about that term. Of course, some people who are on the verge or below the edge of a existential minimum probably also need state transfers, social transfers. And believe me, everyone together, he's no more satisfied than I would be if I could say that Zuif is the story of the past, that's all. But unfortunately that's not going to work. Here we have Zuyf, this government, this coalition, if you want, kind of prolongs it, but at the same time softens it. It is not entirely correct, colleague Godec, to say that nothing happened on child support on scholarships. Pensioners will receive an average of some 10 euros at the annual level of valorised pensions. A few 10 euros that haven't been received in 10 years. Here, that's what they're gonna get. And thank God that Desus managed to achieve this or this coalition, I apologize for insisting on Desus. I'm glad those minus 10% at the 5th and 6th classes are deleted. It's gone. Now, if you want to interpret this as a 10% increase in the child's allowance, we can, but we can also interpret children's supplements in the 5th and 6th classes to be the same level as they should be without Zujf. In scholarships, there's no happier man than I am. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u189	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u190	I'm still running out of time, and I haven't had a chance. Well, then I'll apply for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, chairman. The fact is, this government has no respect for family policy. Because if I did, I would understand what a child's allowance is, that a child's allowance should be a family policy measure. But you see it as a social policy or a social transfer. That's what I'm listening to. But if we want to take family politics seriously, it shouldn't be. However, if we want to take family policy seriously, then families should be treated equally, in the same way as all trade unions, public servants and pensioners. This time it's not like that. Since the government has not been inclined to do so, the family policy is subject to all the measures taken by Zuif, and they are exacerbated and others are not. And you said, thank God Desus is here to fight. It's true, but I have to do it again. It's been a few years since you promised a pension. And people still don't have that. I have to repeat, I know you'll replicate, but don't talk, thank God we're here. Yeah, we all have to be here together. But family policy must be equivalent to all other policies in this country. You're supposed to be in the first place! Because from family policy, from young people, from innovative people, this country will be able to have something in 3 years, 5 years. Without that, there will be no development, no breakthrough in the country. That's what everyone's saying, that's what all the birds are making out of, and you still don't know it in the government. I don't know how to get you guys to do this. Therefore, New Slovenia has tabled an amendment to Article 2, which finally discusses that the child allowance should not affect the right to a state grant and its dose. There are too many of these cases, we have been listening to them since 2012, what will happen to the amendment of Svetlik's legislation, the older ones over 18 have been given a child supplement to compensate them for this amount of scholarship, and this has not been the case, and under 18 years of age they will no longer receive scholarships for minors, but they will receive a higher child allowance, under the heading sumarum being the same, and this has not been the case. If it were, then two years ago, they wouldn't have accepted correction and added scholarships for minors. So much for family policy in this country when no one understands what a family policy measure means for families, for large families, and for those who are low incomes. The most striking measure hit those families, so we tabled an amendment which, due to low incomes, receives higher children's documents, which means that if you have five, seven children, three receive a child's allowance and then on account of the price of the family, they don't get students, even if they are from Maribor in Ljubljana, scholarships, and they don't take that into account. I expect, however, that in the coalition, you have reconsidered our amendment, examined our amendment, which speaks only of the fact that, irrespective of the provisions of Article 7, the children's allowance does not affect the right to state scholarships and its dosage to be exempted. Why? In Novi Slovenija we estimate that the number of scholarships to this account would increase from one hundred to a maximum of three hundred in the 5th grade, assuming that five students and two thirds of students would receive an additional allowance to stay out of their home country, resulting in an annual increase in funding for state scholarships of up to 300 000 euros. We are talking about 300,000 euros a year in this country for students living outside the home, as I mentioned, or in a place where they are educated. The number of students and students in the lower income classes who were entitled to a higher scholarship at the time of the amendment than they are now is a little harder to estimate without the Ministry's data, so we asked you at the time what this number is. We somehow estimate that there would be a few percent of such students and students. If there were 10% of them, and I strongly doubt that this number is higher, or even if this number is 10%, the expenditure on state grants would increase by about a million EUR 250 per year. But you know what they'd take in? Everything, including the fifth income class. This means that a maximum of €1.5 million per year for family policy would be needed to eliminate obvious and severe discrimination, which has been going on ever since the ZUPJS was put into effect since 2012. It seems to me that compared to all the costs that this country has, something else could be listed, this must not be an unattainable or unrealistic number. Above all, keep an eye on young people who want to be educated and who will be raising the economy in this country in three to five years. I think that there is a need to take into account the fact that it is in family policy that the Government is proposing the least simplification of restrictive measures. What I've said before, they're all more valuable than children, than families, than students in this country, all the more valuable, I think this amount is even more justified. However, I expect that, at the committee's own meeting, I have justified the amendment to Article 2 to take on the role of the State scholarship for children of all ages. Please understand that because his younger brother or sister receives a child allowance, which means that they are entitled, this also means lower income if they receive a child’s allowance to be taken into account when calculating and censoring a scholarship. I don't know how to make it even easier for you to understand that this is a completely misunderstood measure, which, with the support of our amendment, is being recalculated to take into account, however, that this children's allowance is exempt from the bill, the state grant. I just can't say it any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Here we have heard quite a few different perceptions of what is now happening to children's allowances and what scholarships. One side says we're further restricting them, the other side says we're releasing them. I say that it is true that we are partially releasing them or that part of the austerity measures remain. However, in order to be able to say that it is somehow prudent that part of the austerity measures remain, it may be good to just look at where the upper limit of this censorship is. For example, children’s allowances have a ceiling of EUR 2575 for the four-member family. I think it is, however, a reasonable limit, a reasonable top, that after that amount, after these 2570 euros it is somehow acceptable that people do not need additional transfers. For a family of three, this is the 1930s limit. I think that this is relatively high enough, even if we take into account the fact that we do not have a budget that could be stretched out, which could be further indebted, the resources are limited and it is somehow understandable that they are trying to target those who are more vulnerable and that some marginal censorship is being set. It's acceptable to me, and it's kind of logical. It's the same with scholarships. Nevertheless, it is only partially relaxing because 98 000 children will have a higher child allowance of 10% and 3 000 200 scholarships will still be more than they have been before. As far as the amendments are concerned. I could only comment on this amendment so that children's allowances would no longer be considered income when the eligibility of the grant is assessed. When you listen to this content from a colleague, it's understandable that you can look at this problem from that side. And I would open up another side, that is, once the ZUPJS changed in 2012, a new order of social transfers or family benefits and social assistance was reintroduced after many years. This order also led to the fact that income also took into account those aid received under, for example, number 1, 2 and that this was already taken into account as income for the third transfer. Such an approach has been initiated because it has been found that certain groups of people, certain families have accumulated some social assistance and family benefits. This means that we had on one side a group of families where, for example, there was no income and the whole system was somehow socially unfairly aggregated and accumulated, and in some cases they were in a better position than the families where one of the parents was employed. This was the reason why this order was established and also the consideration of these revenues. If we started to change that, I think we should look very carefully at what would have happened. So this is also one of the reasons why we will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I conclude that there is still an application for discussion. Please sign up. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u196	Now I'm really gonna have to be brief. First, Evey. Thousands of euros, this is my Carl, my President's wish, it wasn't that he promised something to guarantee, but you didn't understand my President very well. I stress once again, not to work competitively, not to make a front between these three on this triangle, public servants, recipients of transfers and pensioners. Everyone is needed, everyone deserves it, and everyone gets what they're after. I just wanted to warn you about two things. When we talk about individual policies, let it be family recipients' policy, kindergarten policy, scholarship policy, social policy, not to mention further. You need to look at them in full, connect them to each other. That's probably what the SMC colleague wanted to say earlier. However, when transfers here are a little synonymous, there is some effect on the whole. But if you're looking at partial, normal, there's not enough child support in the 7th and 8th classes, the families should get it. There's not enough scholarships, I'm aware, but we're working, working, thawing, or any way we're softening this bitching Zuyf. And every year, believe me, there will be more. We're not sharpening the conditions, we're adding. But what's most important about this whole thing is that it's not that we're hurting, but that we're improving the material, social, material position of those most vulnerable target groups. But here we can probably agree that in any of these packages of four social laws, if I may say so, we hit those populations, those target groups, which are essential for their lives. and if you ask me at the end, or butter or cannons: butter, butter and only butter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you very much again. I didn't want to replicate my colleague Grošljev's theory, but it is true. He's got a family of two-, three-, four-members. But there is no theory and it is not fair to large families that where there are 7, 8 children, where there are 3 students and 5 minors, where parents are unemployed or one of the parents is unemployed, and there your theory is not true. And it takes into account the children's allowances for the calculation of those two, three underage scholarships. They also have an impact on heights, so I say that politics in this country is not the right thing to do, that a child's allowance should be part of a family policy. I believe that they are calculating if there are fewer children in the family, this is different, and it is covered differently, and it is also otherwise understandable, and it is also a different result. But I warn families, especially those who are big. Mr Pikl, I will not be answering these questions today, you said, those were the words of my President. That's right. And not just words, it was deception and pre-election promises. I can't get past this. And as long as I'm in this national council, I'm gonna do it again. Because the matter of family policy is so sensitive that it should be the first one that all Members should pay attention to. Therefore, I propose, consider and support our amendment, that when calculating and awarding scholarships to older than 18 years of age, children should be excluded from being added to the calculation of the censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec. Procedurally, Mr. Uroš Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I believe Ivy got a little engaged here. Firstly, we are not talking about the amount of pensions, we are talking about the ZUPJS or the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, so it is not even appropriate to talk here about certain statements that we do not understand or do not understand. I'll say it again here to make it clear to everyone. My president said that he would like everyone to have at least, not a thousand, but at least a thousand, if I understood him correctly, that every thousand euros in pensions. But it was no promise and no deception and no manipulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u201	Procedural proposal? I said there was no procedural proposal. I've let you know. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u202	All I would say to my colleague is that your president should be careful how he expresses his wishes: out loud, quietly, in his head he desires. If the goldfish hears it and fills it up, what budget will we have? Rebalancing now. So not with such a one, it was pronounced loud and clear. If your client's president says anything, then that's probably what he's holding. But if it's his wish to speak in the mirror there, let him speak what he wants. Don't pull anything now. And let's just leave it at that, because a thousand euros of pensions, we'll probably be waiting, Mr. Prickl, I don't know, well, we'll see. There's something else you need to say. I have to fix myself, too. We're not prolonging Zuif, you're resetting the austerity measures. Zujf ends at 2.5 GDP, temporary austerity measures, and this is it. And now you're working on a new one. You've pulled these austerity measures out of Zuif a little bit, added another condition at the same time. And I would still ask the government to tell me when these two measures will be implemented, please! Don't sit here right now at this hour, and watch me Do you know the answer? [[…]] Please give us an answer when these two measures will be implemented at the same time. when those in the 7th and 8th classes can expect the release of the austerity measures that you today impose in this law. And let's stop talking about prolonging Zuif. Ziff's finished. Zujf makes it clear when these austerity measures are over, and as of today or when the vote will take place, Wednesday, Thursday, you are putting in place new austerity measures. That's one thing. I also forgot to tell Mr Prick before he went to allow the pensioners to have representatives in the National Assembly. And families don't have kids to fight for these scholarships and baby supplements. That's partial, too. The next thing is when we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party a change to Svetlik's law, which was then referred to as the then Minister of Svetlik, as well as the current Minister, as the protection of the social state. At that time, in the coalition you discuss today, you found that this law has many anomalies. One of the findings was that children’s allowances were considered to be in this censorship or under these conditions in scholarships. You're talking the other way around today. I really don't know lately, you guys in the coalition get your magnetograms out and you read them, and when you get to another marriage, look what you said the other day. Because today you say otherwise: How great is the law of Light so that we do not change it, I do not know what everything is. But the last time we put forward a proposal to amend the Lighten Law for a protective allowance and social assistance, you said it was such a law that should be amended immediately. And in that marriage, there are such anomalies that appear here today. That marriage is also responsible for these matters. Once again, I ask the government to answer my question as to what kind of scholarships today or at 1. 1. 2016 in order to be more specific so that you do not say that I am already replacing the dates of the scholarships with children's allowances if this law is not adopted. Bigger, lower? When will both conditions, 2.5% of GDP and 1.3% of work points between 20 and 64 years be met to release your austerity measures? All things in the hall, all the Members, that they may cease to speak of Zyph. Zuif is finished in this area. The conditions of Zuif are met with 1. 1. 2016, and today you are introducing a new law with new austerity measures. Please respond to the Government's response when these austerity measures will be released.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, and distinguished Minister, nice greeting! We're actually talking about family policy. And now that I'm listening to this debate, I kind of miss it, even though it would be an anomaly, a big anomaly, if we had a democratic party of Slovenian families here in the National Assembly. Otherwise, the question of what would be achieved, because one would expect all of us to work in the direction of good family policy. Even because of the poor demographic indicators we deal with, we look at them, read them, and do not react as if we were blind and deaf. If anyone thinks that this government thinks that investing in the family is a mistake, then, ladies and gentlemen, something is wrong with us. And this amendment we proposed, if it's not well-intentioned, okay, then reject it. Then reject it and say it is not good for Slovenian families. See, at the end of the children's allowance for full-year children, the Government has explicitly stressed that for children of all ages, the role of the children's allowance is taken over by a state scholarship. It is therefore totally unacceptable that a child’s allowance for younger children causes older children in the family to receive a lower state pension or not to receive it at all. For us, that's unacceptable. That's why we tabled these amendments. There is money for everything, despite the fact that there is always too little money when we make a state budget. But for a little better incentives for families, that's not. We don't have family unions, we don't have family freaks if you want, who reach everything. And also this government coalition, this government, more precisely, has somehow inherited union negotiators led by two eminent politicians, two parliamentarians, and has achieved union peace. That no one would think I'd made a slap so I could say social peace. What a social peace! Union peace! Which will only make it possible for us to survive. Among other things, this union peace has imposed thirteen million more on the salaries of the municipal officials they deserve, by the way, and of course the same government has turned its back on the congregations when they negotiated at least a nuance higher average than it was this year. Therefore, in the new Slovenia, we are working solely to ensure that our families live in better prosperity from the political agenda before the elections to concrete measures. Where does that come from? This is achieved by creating a better business environment, so that the economy can develop, that new jobs can be created, that we have economic growth, which is the passion of every economist. The passion of every economist is to grow his business, to have more traffic if you want to create new products, conquer new markets, of course, thereby opening up new jobs. Only this will help us to live in greater prosperity, if you will, materially and spiritually. As we walk in the field, and Nova Slovenija has made some 30 field visits from 2012 to today, we do not go to mayors in principle, but invite the mayors to work lunch. I don't want to share any recipes with you. Otherwise we go to family companies, other companies, visit farms, various institutions, hospitals, etc. Under the line, we can find that we have extremely good, successful family businesses, as others do, but this somehow, with all the known reasons, works somehow better, is some family cohesion, family solidarity. Sometimes we meet there for three generations, and that's nice to look at. And they start talking like this," we're a small family company that employs 110 workers and workers have no right to buy us a yacht." Sometimes I listen to my colleagues from a more left-wing political field that these employers are just and exploiters of people. That's not true. Look, it's not true. Since every real owner of the company, everyone says the director – and these are anyway – most people say that people are their best capital. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, it is necessary to create a climate, create an environment where a new value will be created, which will also be for our families, and especially for our families, to take care of and provide for the well-being and better standard that will allow the children of education to choose their studies abroad and then return richer for new knowledge, for new experiences. And we need to do something to make sure we don't have a brain drain, but a brain circulation. We just don't see any concrete action here. And I don't know why it's so hard for families to give a little bit of a trifle, what kind of shorter person to support this amendment of ours. Why is that a problem? Isn't it in context? What context? And that's what we should be dealing with. I don't want to hurt anyone right now, but look, there was a law in this National Assembly that allowed for the write-off of debts. Of course, it is a good story to write off debts to those who cannot pay their debts. We will shortly request a report on the effects. There were some agreements signed in a series of spotlights and cameras and so on, and we are assessing, and as we are also listening to the mayors, that this project has collapsed and that it was actually possible not to resent, for one great social demagogy. Don't mind! That's what people in the field tell us, we didn't make that up here in our food, but it is. But for such measures as this amendment of ours, which would go to the welfare of the family, we simply see that there is no support. Probably because he was proposed by a right-wing opposition party. And we're not gonna support that. I guess that's why. We hope that before the vote, common sense will prevail and that everyone will remember that everyone actually comes from a family. That he was once a child, that he may be a parent today, that he may have ever been a teacher of his children, and so on. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Martina Vuk, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! Today someone said that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has no easy work. I would say thank you for understanding our position and seeing that we care about all the areas we cover. These areas and very few, these areas are very complementary to each other, but at the same time these areas must also be balanced to this extent and we must seek such solutions so that we can achieve the best possible measures in the context of what we have at our disposal. If you ask me now about family policy, I agree, it has been said that family policy is not just transfers, family policy is not just subsidies, family policy is not just payments. Family policy is much, much more. And here we find it important to look at this family policy in its entirety. Family policy is also that in this first of our laws, from the package that we have discussed, we have ensured that the weightings have changed in such a way that the minimum income for families too will have a positive impact. Family policy is also that we maintain in every way the length of maternity and parental leave to try to balance the division of work and care for children among parents in order to introduce additional paternity leave. Family policy is also how you decide to take individual measures when you weigh, within a possible framework, whether to go to the weakest who are hard to live, or to extend rights and income in such a way that we go to those who have average incomes, to those who are not on the edge, as you yourself have said today. When we focus on the weakest, yes, it is social policy. At that time, the families are the ones we need to see in this light, that they need to support both social transfers and the whole social policy to make life easier and better. If it was obvious that we were all forgetting what had happened and that we were discussing very differently each time than anyone else. That goes for a lot of people. We have forgotten, however, that this social legislation, which has been amended so many times, has already been amended in such a way that part of the children's allowance is not included. And we call this part of the children's allowance a developmental part, we can call it a wider part of the family, not just as a social adjustment, not just because life is easier and better from this financial point of view. 20% of the child supplement is not included and 30% of the child supplement is included in single-parent families. That's already been changed. It has also been announced many times that we are working on an informational calculation based on the classification of an individual or family as an income class and that all rights will then be assessed from the classification in this income class. If we succeed with your help and support in this informational calculation, then there will be no more order. However, it should be borne in mind that this will also mean a change and conversion of the scales. If the child allowance were merely and only a social adjustment, if the scholarship were purely and only a social adjustment, only those who are really weak would be entitled to this transfer. Today, we have heard and learned what the sixth income class means. Do you know what 64% of the net average wage on a family member means? This means approximately EUR 2 000 600 net income per month for a four-member family. That means that. That's the limit, that's the censorship when the family's still receiving the baby supplement. 2 000 600 EUR net income for a four-member family. If there are more members, there is an additional €643 for each member. That's the limit we went to. And we can't say there's a poverty margin here. And now that it is necessary to weigh whether to increase the minimum income to EUR 288 or to release certain measures, or to extend paternity leave and all these matters, how much to target active employment policy, or to allow 100 new integrations into the centres of protection. Not to mention. When we weigh all these measures, when, if you want, we miscalculate them, but, yes, we have to do this, we have to calculate because we are limited to what we have. At that time, we considered that it was easy for those who deserved to talk again about the 4-member family between 2 000 600 euros per month net and 4 000 euros net per month, that they would probably understand us if they did not receive 20 euros per month of child supplement until the condition was fulfilled. I really hope these people understand. And I don't want you to get the wrong idea, because, yes, in this country, you have to build in the middle layer, and these same people form the middle layer. But when we give them 20 euro a child's allowance per month, we will not strengthen them. But that would mean a possible resignation for a lot of other people who need this right much more. And, yes, that's the kind of thought we're dealing with. Speaking of state scholarship. The right to a state grant will now be enjoyed by all those who have a net monthly income of around €560 per family member. This for a 4-member family means 3,000 920 net income per month. It's a state scholarship award. However, the purpose of the State grant is to enable those who would otherwise have had a harder time studying it. Therefore, the only criterion for obtaining a state grant is merely the income censorship. Of course, it would be better if all the students and students had a scholarship and all the students and students have a scholarship. But when we have to make a decision, and when we weigh, it is EUR 3 000 920 that we feel that the scholarship is not so urgently needed that parents and students must decide together whether to go to study or not. That's how we weighed and decided, because the state scholarship is part of the scholarship policy. If we discussed family policy earlier, it is also part of family policy. And a state scholarship isn't the only scholarship. Other types of scholarships are not thus linked to income censorship and there are not only criteria for family income, but other criteria. There's another way to study. And there, for example, those who exceed the State grant award may obtain Zois’ scholarship, such as a staff scholarship and so on. These are just different policies that we deal with daily, and, yes, I know it's nice to talk to, who cares less, who cares less, who knows more, who does less and what measures they take. But when we get to the numbers at the end, to what's possible, then the cards have to be put on the table and tell us what we're going to do. When you talk about this so-called anchor, if we call it that now, and when you ask when these conditions will be met. You know, I was not the secretary of state at the time, but I remember very, very well those discussions when the rate of 2.5% of GDP growth was set as the initial anchor when the measures would be released. At the time, the numbers were significantly different. At that time, we faced a significant decline in economic growth. At that time, we faced a very high increase in unemployment. When you were talking to those who were preparing this anchor, but so quietly, off, not out loud, not in front of the cameras. At that time, but no, they had a big question in their eyes when that time would come and when that criterion would come true. And when you ask me today when we have already talked about various policies, including employment policy, an active employment policy is one of our policies of this broad spectrum. And it is now starting to draw on European funds from a new financial perspective, where there are a lot of programmes that will encourage employment and expect employment to increase significantly. Employment will increase significantly, and unemployment will decline if you want. That's why we're going to get that anchor. And when you're talking about a permanent measure. A permanent measure would be unconditional. And the only possible change would be to change the law. At that time we would admit, yes, it seems to us a very rational measure, a right family, social, employment policy, that the 7th and 8th income classes never receive a child supplement at all, that the limit for the state grant is 56% of the average net salary per family member. Then we'd put it on and say, yeah, we think it's okay. That's not what we said. That is why we have made a condition because it seems important to us that these measures are not permanent, but that they persist only for as long as we are not able to implement them in this way. You know, when you say "you're not going to do anything with this law, you're going to increase the children's allowance by 10% to those in the 5th and 6th income classes, and you're not going to do anything for the weakest." But with the amendments you've tabled, you've got nothing to do with the weakest. You're not improving their position at all, but you're improving the situation in the 7th and 8th income classes. There's nothing wrong with that. It's perfectly legitimate. But let's say it the way it is. I'll finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u208	I'd like to thank the secretary for her 20-minute training. I am very glad that I have now clarified all the censorship, everything I am saying wrong, and I have not received an answer. Please, the government still has time to specifically respond: when will both conditions be met at the same time, 2.5% GDP growth and employment rate 1.3? Please don't talk to me about Zyphus about what happened in 2012 when this Zyphus was accepted. Stop making excuses for something that's been, which is over today. Two and a half years and it's over. From 2009 to 2012, you have been so indebted that such measures have to be taken. Now you speak, and here in Parliament we listen, not you, but in Parliament we listen to how economic growth, how well we live, we will always live better. Please tell me when your austerity measures will be anticipated or when both conditions will be met and what the scholarships and child allowances would be if Zuyf were in force or if this law was not adopted today, which you are setting up. What state scholarships and child allowances would be like with 1. 1. 2016, of course, it applied to Zujf the restriction accepted by our government, because it was then such conditions that it was necessary to accept it. And that seems to suit you. Because now you're talking about prolonging Zuif. No, you're not. Ziff ends with 1. 1. 2016 and you are setting new conditions. When these conditions will be met and what they will be like, I ask you again and answer me specifically, state grants, child allowances if this law is not adopted. And please don't teach, just let me answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u209	Do you want to answer? Ms Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u210	You know, Mrs Jelka Godec, we always discuss it the same way. Now I don't know if we never hear from each other or what the problem is. I know they've changed that sound, but there's really a little more schooner in this Assembly Hall. And yet, you know, if you want me to answer [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u211	The Secretary of State has the floor [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The Secretary of State has the floor. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u212	I'd ask the secretary of state to answer. But if he cannot answer these two questions, let him answer me when these two conditions have already been met. When have these two conditions been fulfilled in the past? 2.5% economic growth, I stress once again, while at the same time the labour force is 1.3%. Then answer me that question. I hear you well, and, Madam President, I ask that the representatives of the Government do not teach Members. I do not know whether they have learned this from a certain person, how to hear and how to understand Members. The Secretary of State hasn't answered my questions, and I think I have the right to ask again. And I'm a good listener, though maybe sometimes something else, but I'm a good listener. There was no answer. And once again, I'm going to ask the question: what would be the state scholarships, the children's allowances if this law were not passed, higher or lower? When will both conditions be met at the same time? You know very well which one. But if you do not know how to answer that question, when have these two conditions been fulfilled at the same time?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u213	The secretary of state had her word. Does he want an additional explanation? The Secretary of State will answer. Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I answer the questions. I'm very good at answering questions. But, you know, it's not a quiz to be the right and wrong answers. What would be the amount of children’s allowances and scholarships if this law were not adopted? The height would be the same as today. However, a wider range of people would be eligible for child support. Those in the seventh and eighth income classes would also be justified. That would be a change of law. And the state grant would be eligible for all of them, up to 64% of the average wage per family member, but not as we now do when up to 56% of the average salary per family member. This would have happened if this law had not been passed. And second. When will these conditions be fulfilled? I'm sorry, I really don't want to teach you, but in law school, they teach you what a condition means. That's all I'm gonna say. Thank you so much for not being insulting to anyone again.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 37th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on investment in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Our secretary just left. We're moving on. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Health as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the representative of Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Health Committee is at its 8th session. 11. As a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a law on investments in public health establishments, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. It was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal to deal with it on an urgent basis. The amendments of the United Left Group to Article 5 and of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6 were tabled in the draft law. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, pointed out in the introduction that the aim of the bill is to continue to ensure the financing of investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia and which are covered by the development programme plan. The bill thus provides a stable system and funding for investments in buildings and equipment. From budget item 3564 — Investments in public health institutions shall, by law, contribute to the budget fund 50 % of the unused appropriations from the integrated budget according to the state of the budget available after recording the provisions on 8 December of the current year. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will decide on the transfer of the difference up to 100%. The law also provides for the purposes for which the funds collected will be used. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition members of the said comments to the individual articles were abolished in the majority. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by mag. Peter Pozun. He pointed out that the Commission supports and welcomes the intention of the proposer, who, by means of the law, wants to permanently address the issue of financing investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, as defined in the development programme plan. The representative of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, Mr Janko Stok, said that the institution supports the existence of a special fund for investments in health care, but at the same time warns that the proposed legal solutions are not systemic and truly long-term. According to the ZZI, the health investment law should be regulated at all levels and for all types of healthcare services, i.e. for the primary level. At the same time, it calls for more systematic and long-term planned investment in equipment. The representative of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia Methods Mezeg said that the association proposed a law of support. In addition, the association proposes that similar arrangements be introduced at the primary level, as only rare municipalities manage to provide funds for investment needs, which is also reflected in the uneven development of primary health care. While the majority of the members and members of the committee expressed support for the bill, some concerns were expressed. Such an important law should not be dealt with under an urgent procedure. The bill is also not systemic, as the area governs in part. The Minister of Health has given answers to the questions raised and has specifically stressed that it will only be necessary to ask once what kind of health we really want and how to finance it. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups by 3, 4, 5 and 6. However, Article 5 did not accept the amendment of the United Left Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes amendments, has been prepared on the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u218	President, thank you very much for your word. The proposed law retains virtually all solutions to the current law with one exception, which is essential. The old law did not allow for a public-private partnership, and that is also the point for which we will not support or support this law in the United Left only if it is adopted by our amendment, which puts the possibility of a public-private partnership aside and deletes it from this law. The idea that some private individuals will contribute to its development by investing in public health institutions is naive, to say the least. On the other hand, the possibility of investing public funds in private institutions is quite dangerous. The introduction of a public-private partnership would exacerbate one of the main problems of the Slovenian health system. One of the main problems of this health system is, as we know, that there is no clear and defined gap between public and private health. As a result, we face corruption, we face an irrational use of public funds, which are already too low, we face the emergence of amphibians and so on. In short, the very examples that do not show us to imitate and continue in the future. And wherever we were very soon dealing with public-private partnerships, we had problems with suspicions of corruption. And whenever we left the public service to the private sector, the services were encouraged. An example is the homes of older citizens. In recent years, it has largely been built in the form of a public-private partnership, and staying in these homes is significantly more expensive than in public, because of course its investment must be reimbursed to the investor with some normal profit. And even after the end of this first period in which we can charge higher prices, he will still have to create some normal profits, and despite the regulated prices we have no problem with because public homes for the elderly also create large surpluses. In the last year, they totalled up to €5 million. What I want to say is that a private investor will be interested in investing in our public health system or investing in the health system only in a way that, in public finances or in patients' contributions, patients can make profits through commercialisation processes. On the contrary, this is diametrically opposite to why we want and why public health is important, and why public health is one of the values that we will by no means let go of the restless waters of market orientation in the United Left. The microeconomics of the public-private partnership is therefore inexcusable, and this means in the last instance that we as Slovenian citizens and citizens as a community, as owners of health institutions in loss. The surplus that will arise from this investment and could be invested back in the healthcare institution will be collected by a private investor, a cream that could contribute to the quality of our public health services for all citizens and citizens, this cream will be collected by a private person. In the United Left, we are certainly aware that investment funds are not sufficient right now, but the public-private partnership would only and only exacerbate this problem, because instead of strengthening the public health network, the funds will flow into the pockets of private profit. In fact, we need to look elsewhere to remedy an unseen situation. If the prices of health services were to cover amortisation and allow for a further surplus, this would already be a step in the right direction and would take a real optimal path. This will only be possible once the supplementary health insurance has been abolished and replaced by a solidarity public contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u220	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! The proposal for a law is not appropriate under the urgent procedure of the draft budget for the next two years, which is certain, at least in our humble opinion, because the proposed law will replace the 1994 law, which has been amended three times, last in 2011, and will expire this year. Why am I being inappropriate? Not because of the content of the law itself, far from it, but because of the speedy process, that's the problem. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although the proposed law is necessary, we would expect the Ministry of Health to prepare, as I have already said, a quality system law that will address the entire field of investment in the public health system. The proposed law thus partially saves investment projects in 26 Slovenian hospitals, where it is the founder of the state. The law is therefore without prejudice to the field of primary health investment, since health homes are within the competence of local communities, which is an area that needs to be systematically regulated in view of Slovenia's uneven development. So with this bill, we will have no better conditions at the primary level, which means that municipalities will continue to be left with their own ingenuity or literally powerlessness in investment. However, we agree with the proposaler that increasing technological progress and, on the other hand, the needs of the population and the demands for increasingly higher standard health services require stable investment of budgetary resources in the maintenance and updating of the entire health infrastructure of buildings and equipment. On the other hand, from that audit of the Court of Auditors on the efficiency of managing expensive medical equipment, we have concluded that the magnetic resonance devices and CT devices have not been fully exploited, nor has the Ministry set standards for their optimal utilisation. So, on the one hand, we have to provide more and more stable resources for investment and, on the other hand, the equipment remains unused. In Novi Slovenija we believe that the proposed law is far from the system law, as the proposer thinks, but only a partial contribution to regulating hospital financing. For Christian Democrats are committed to changing the organisational structure of hospitals in the form of economic associations, as voluntary insurance companies are certainly prepared to seriously capitalise on the investment financing system. Monopoly of one and only compulsory health insurance companies has a disproportionate operating cost, which means less funding for health activities, profits from suppliers of medical devices and equipment and the high cost of the State for the public health system. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in New Slovenia, we will not oppose the proposed regulation you are proposing, but because of the poor efforts made by the Ministry of Health in particular, we will not support this area of investment in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Dear Minister with the team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, regulates the collection of investment funds collected in a special account of the Ministry of Health. The adoption of this proposal avoids a legal void resulting from the termination of the current law, which has been extended from 1994 until the end of 2015. The new proposal in the field of investment in public health establishments regulates permanently. The problem facing the Ministry of Health is that, under the current legislation, it is not possible to transfer unused funds of the integrated budget for investments in public health institutions to the next calendar year. 100% use of these funds has often been unrealised in recent years, as in current practice the implementation of investments has been slowed down many times due to unforeseen factors in the procurement process. The delay in the implementation of public tendering procedures is due to audits, unfounded complaints by unchosen tenderers, final calculations of investments due to the impossibility of implementing existing contracts and so on. All of this points to the need for regulation of this area at systemic level. In this situation, the Ministry of Health has sought a compromise solution and has reached an agreement with the Ministry of Finance to transfer 50% of unused resources from the integrated budget directly to the budget fund of the Ministry of Health. The transfer of the remaining 50% of unused funds from the integral budget is decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by a decision on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, which we consider to be a major achievement of the Minister, which will certainly reflect a more reliable and more predictable investment in public health. In addition to the above proposal, it also introduces changes in the area of decommissioning, which is recognised by the public health service as an additional source of resources. In the past, all public health institutions have been committed to decommissioning the depreciation work. However, this bill introduces an important novelty, as 20% of the depreciation funds are earmarked exclusively for those institutions covered by the development programme plan and are actually being invested in them. This allows for a more proportionate approach, as only those public health establishments that are foreseen in the Government’s medium-term plan and have the planned priority measures and investments, i.e. those where they will also actually invest in buildings and medical equipment, contribute part of the funds. We support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party's proposal in this way, because we believe it will enable predictable and continuous investment in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, and more reliable investment from the development programme plan within the envisaged deadlines.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! With the proposal of the law before us today, the proposer wants to permanently address the issue of financing investments in public health institutions, the founder of which, as we have already heard today, is the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia we regulated this area in 1994 and extended its validity until this year. In its explanation for this proposal, the Government explains that there have been significant positive effects during the period of validity of this Act. The bill, which is before us today, provides a permanent source of financial resources from the unused funds of the integral budget for investment, depreciation, assets from sale and rental of real estate and equipment, compensation and other income and donations. The unused funds of the integrated budget for investments in public health institutions by 8 December of the current year should be directly allocated to the budget fund to the Ministry of Health and the remainder of the unused funds should be allocated to the special budget fund on the basis of a government decision. To a large extent, this is supposed to be an investment whose payment obligations are known, but the conditions for payment are not yet known and the conditions for payment are met by the end of the financial year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we join the comments made by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in the sense that this law should regulate investments in public health institutions at all levels and for all types of health activities of public health services networks, i.e. for the primary level. It is known that municipalities as founders of public institutions provide funds for investment needs. This, in the future, will lead to the limited funding of municipalities by the State to ensure that health establishments are in an unequal position on the ground, which will of course affect the development of primary health care. In the debate on the Committee in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have set up a number of dilemmas in how the Ministry will ensure investment investments in public health homes in accordance with the public health service network, if these public health services are still not available. We also asked the Minister how and who will control the funds transferred to the special fund. Here I must say that we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party in little doubt as to the correct use of these funds. If I just summarize the Court of Auditors' audit report this year, when it notes this year, I quote, "that despite the audit recommendations, the Ministry has not yet found the actual situation in the field of medical equipment. It started by keeping records of medical equipment, but it stopped collecting data as the Ministry’s professional services were not able to unify the content of the form. In this case, however, there will be unused investment funds," it says, for taxpayers' money. At the end, we also highlighted the fact that this law discriminates against concessionaires. The Health Act provides that health care as a public service is carried out under the same conditions by public health establishments and other legal and natural persons on the basis of a concession. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot support this law, nor can we support the words of the President of the Health Committee, who at the time of the adoption of this law said: "If we like it or not, this law must be supported." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Once again, hello to everyone! The 1994 Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions provided in a relatively effective way additional funds for investments, especially in hospitals, in part in the equipment of health homes by way of maintaining the work of amortisation funds. This has been the only source many times and, of course, we can also understand this proposal and its upgrade, which actually brings some improvements. Although Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the bill, we have some concerns about the content of the law itself. One thing is for sure that it represents such a way of raising money in a unique way, which is not used in other public health institutions, is that hospitals are practically the ones that combine their share of depreciation for these investments. However, it is comforting that this proposal nevertheless improves the law in force, by narrowing the pool of taxpayers into the fund only to those institutions included in the development programme plan. The proposal brings another improvement to the current law – it is a provision that future investments will not be fully reimbursed for the integrated budget if the funds due to project delays should not be drawn up in a given year. According to the new forecast, 50% of the unused funds will be transferred directly to the Special Budget Fund and the Government will be able to transfer the remaining 50% of the funds to it. An important reason for supporting the law is also the possibility offered below by certain investments, which, of course, in the coming year if this law were not adopted, could be halted. We are talking about investments in the emergency room of the University Clinical Centre, the construction of a replacement building for the Disabled Youth Department in Stara Gora. That is why, despite our concerns in our House of Representatives, we have decided to support the bill. At the same time, it is worth noting that we join the warnings of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, that there is a need to simplify the way to address the problem of the lack of funds for investments at all levels – i.e. hospitals where the founder of the country is, even for the primary level or health homes where municipalities as founders of investment investments are very different. It also applies to the fact that, to the extent that the State sincerely advocates public health, it should also devote more money to both investment and the necessary equipment for all health care. In the end, we would like to stress in our Group that we will have to ask ourselves whether health is really a priority and how much we are prepared to devote to it, and also take appropriate measures to enable equipment to be used effectively and that investments will be effective and will be made within the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The law before us today is part of a package of budget laws and replaces the Law on investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. It entered into force on 28 April 1994, and its validity extended until 2015. The proposal of this law regulates this area permanently. The fact is that so far, the law has shown the positive effects of legal solutions on the implementation and completion of investments in public health institutions because a special account has been set up to raise funds for investments separately from other budgetary resources. In order to ensure sufficient and constant funding for the necessary investments in public health institutions, which will be independent of the annual adoption of budgets, this bill also maintains that model in future periods. The draft law sets out the resources for investment investments in public health institutions. One of them is also the unused funds of the Integrated Investment Budget. The law also allows for the acquisition of an amortisation source of funds as one of the most reliable sources of the budget fund. These resources are crucial in view of the constant decline in investment funds if we want further development. It is impossible to expect that the level of health services in public health services will be maintained at least at the same level if there are no grounds available, which indisputably represent the acquisition of new equipment and investment in facilities. Technological progress and the needs of the population, as well as the demands of higher standards of health services, require stable investment of budgetary resources in the maintenance and updating of the entire health infrastructure of both buildings and equipment. That is why we support the proposed law. The adoption of the law is the instrument that will further stabilise the financing of investments in public health institutions. As the applicant further points out, the aim of the law is to continue to ensure the financing of investments in public health institutions and to be covered by the development programme plan. The law also enables more efficient implementation of investments and the economic use of public money. Without the adoption of that law, there are promising difficulties in financing and implementing the investments in question. Social Democrats will also be supported by the proposal for a law on investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, as I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled, the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Who wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. I would like to highlight only a few key changes brought by this law, which are welcome innovations in investing in health care, in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. The first key novelty is to bring together 20% of depreciation in those institutions which are included in the national development programme and where investments in these institutions are made or carried out for that year. This is an important novelty, or difference from now on, of the current law, which has indeed been born in 1994 and has been extended until this year, but in the current law all public health institutions are obliged to join amortisation. The next important innovation is the transfer of unused investment funds to the integral part of the budget, which is particularly important in terms of investment management and planning. Unfortunately, so far, many audit procedures, complaints that investments have been delayed and that money has not been spent in the current financial year, have been made due to public procurement. In this new bill, 50% of these funds are automatically transferred to the other 50% by the government, which means that we are actually maintaining this resource and we do not need to negotiate again. And why is it important to adopt this law together with the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets for the two years? Because if this law is not adopted, we will not be able to realise the full investments that are in these draft budgets. But you know that these are important, already started investments in our health care, such as the DTS or the new emergency in Ljubljana, such as equipment at the hospital Slovenj Gradec, such as the emergency centre Ptuj and the Old Mountain and some other smaller investments. Finally, I would just add, and the new thing is that we are introducing the possibility of a public-private investment partnership with the second paragraph of Article 5. We know that this law has been in force in Slovenia since 2006, and this law gives us the opportunity to make such joint investments in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment within half-hour of the end of the 37th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u232	Good afternoon, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Chairman! Allow me to summarize briefly only the content of the law governing wage relations also for 2016 and is based on an agreement with the unions that we have recently adopted. This agreement also lays the groundwork for the regulation of certain relations in collective agreements and in the law that we are also presenting today. The main changes are that we have agreed that the validity of the salary scale has been established up to 1. 6. 2012 returns from the current reduced volume to a higher level with effect from 1 September 2016 and thus terminates this temporary reduction of the salary scale. By the end of 2016, the value of wage classes and the amount of other remuneration and reimbursements of costs are also regulated as was the case in 2015 and is also set out in the public sector collective contract. Regular performance shall not be paid in 2016. Of course, we also continue to agree with representative trade unions on the criteria and basis for the payment of work performance, so that when it is established, it will actually link the results of work closer to that of the civil servant himself. The law also regulates the work performance from the increased title of work as it was in 2015. The key change is in the field of regression, which is paid at EUR 790 in 2016 to the 30th wage class, at the minimum wage level, up to EUR 696 in the 40th wage class and 450 in the 41st to 50th wage class and 350 in the 51st wage class. These classes did not actually receive or benefit from a regression this year. The law also regulates compensation for public servants for periods of absence due to sickness or injury, amounting to 80% of the salary, especially in order to ensure that this scheme is uniform in cases where it is not regulated or otherwise regulated or at other levels. The jubilee award is repeated by the provision that a public servant may receive it as the same jubilee only once, because there has been a change shortly and there have been cases where a public servant may in fact be entitled twice to the jubilee award for the same jubilee work in the public sector. We are also laying the groundwork for a change in the amount of additional pension insurance, which may be lower than 240 euros. This is regulated in collective agreements. We also agreed to extend the termination of the employment contract further when the conditions for full retirement are met, but it is also possible to extend employment here in agreement with the employer because of the smooth work process several times, but every single year. We also extend the limit on the number of days of annual leave, a total limit of not more than 35 days with the option of adding 15 days of annual leave for special working conditions. This restriction also applies in the case of lower restrictions placed in the sectoral legislation or collective agreements. We are also renewing restrictions on the conclusion of copyright and enterprise contracts, but we have amended this part considerably, so these restrictions are much nicer and we have also eliminated those cases of the conclusion of copyright and business contracts that have actually brought certain problems in the past, especially in the field of health and culture, because these restrictions have actually affected the smooth provision of work or are agreed exceptions where these restrictions actually constituted an administrative obstacle, not only because of the savings or unnecessary conclusion of copyright contracts. The other provisions laid down in the so-called ZUJF law have also been repealed, so that they also gradually withdraw those provisions which have been laid down by the ZUJF and are in fact no longer in direct need of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u234	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 28th emergency meeting. 11. In 2015, the draft law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2016 and other public sector measures submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal for an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 38th session. 9. He decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Amendments were tabled to the bill, namely the coalition groups and the SDS Group of Members. Mr Koprivnikar, representative of the Public Administration Minister, explained in addition that after the 13th meeting of the negotiating commission and after the four previous meetings of the government and union sides on Friday, 6. 11. 2015, concluded negotiations on measures in the field of labour costs and other measures in the public sector for 2016. Day 10. 11. In 2015, an agreement was reached on measures in the field of labour costs and other measures in the public sector for 2016, which is one of the key bases for a complementary proposal. He also explained the content of the agreement below. In presenting their written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service specifically stressed that in the initial proposal of the Law, its rules, which by nature are provisional, were not precisely defined in several places as regards the time frame for the implementation of the solutions contained. It further stated that the comments made by the ZPS to the individual articles were largely duly taken into account in the proposed amendments to the coalition or that appropriate written explanations and additional explanations were provided by the applicant. The National Council supports the proposed legislation with the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, especially given that there is a reflection of the consensus reached between the government and the public-sector trade unions that makes it possible for social peace in the country. The leaders of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, Branimir Štrukelj, the head of the Public Sector Negotiating Group Drago Ščernjavič, and the President of the Confederation of Slovenian Unions Guido Novak also presented their position below. In the debate, coalition members welcomed the conclusion of an agreement between the government and the trade union party and agreed that public servants with savings of two billion euros contributed significantly to the sustainability of public finances. In their view, there are still many other reserves in the public sector and changes are already being prepared at the Ministry of Public Administration on the regulation of public sector wages as well as on the system of public servants as a whole. More will have to be done both in the field of motivation for public officials and their appropriate and effective sanctioning if they work poorly. On the issue of local communities, however, they point out that more efforts will have to be made to connect municipalities, as there will be additional synergies to carry out entrusted tasks. In doing so, opposition Members stressed that the salaries of good public servants are too weak. They call for further reforms and a reduction in the number of unnecessary institutions. They also stressed that the cuts in the public sector have robbed us of a large number of soldiers and police officers that would still be needed in the current migration crisis. However, they agreed with the coalition members and union representatives that, due to austerity measures, the disproportionate proportion of those public servants who barely reach minimum wages was increased, with employment profiles often crucial to the exercise of public sector powers. The Committee then adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and voted on all articles of the bill together and also adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u236	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary, all present! The commitment of Slovenia to reduce the budget deficit and balance the budget by 2020 is, of course, a very difficult task and in some ways could be said to be even more difficult than before our representatives today's competition with Ukraine for the European Championship. For the public sector, the government has two tasks or two ways: by better organisation and rationalisation of work, it can create additional resources for internal transfers between individual consumers or simply extend the measures in force by the infamous ZUJF. Of course, our government has taken this difficult or easier path. You still remember, dear colleagues, how some of you were present in 2012 and protested against the implementation of the so-called notorious ZUJF, the Law on the Enforcement of Public Finances. So what are we talking about in the area of public sector wages today? We are still with the ZUJF, which is the only one that has had concrete effects on the state budget so far. Indeed, it meant tightening the belt for public servants, but it did bring savings, if we can even talk about savings, given that the measures meant only a reduction of the deficit in the state treasury. It is also true that austerity measures have been limited in time and that today we should no longer discuss their extension, while we do not know how to accelerate economic growth and lay the solid foundations of the Slovenian economy. In Novi Slovenije we expected a different government proposal for 2016. A proposal that would not constitute an increase in the mass of salaries in the public sector would, however, place the existing mass more correctly. A proposal that does not mean a balancing between public servants. A proposal that, in view of today's security situation in the world and in Slovenia, would mean added value for the military and police, who are barely fulfilling their tasks in normal situations. And we were expecting a proposal that would make more money for the investments themselves. Without them, we don't have our own development, we know that. Are we even aware that we are not creating any added value? That it's split up and in debt, but it doesn't create anything at all. You are aware, dear Government, that you will have to re-indemnify our country for half the state budget next year. For we do not know what the adoption of this law will mean in September next year if economic growth is accidentally less than expected. Christian Democrats are convinced that the Government should also release the salary scale with September 2016 and that public servants will receive higher salaries and, in addition to paying the annual leave fee, those civil servants and officials who are ranked above the 51st salary grade will necessarily be cut down by other measures. In doing so, we are thinking of rewarding the performance of employees at least for the increased work volume as a form of stimulation, without which we are slowly equating all public servants and thus not providing quality and successful public administrations. And what conclusions can we draw from adding to the local communities and congregations? In particular, the fact that the government in the 2016 budget in the field of the public sector, of course even in the case of trade union power, has only increased wages and thus reduced the budget by EUR 28 million. It has also achieved its objective and has avoided social unrest for at least one year. For somehow this government would draw up a budget if I returned to this infamous ZUJF, if it were not for that, a law that, for you today, is a respected coalition, is the only measure in the public sector that brings savings. Although we have adopted it as a temporary measure in 2012, the budget for next year obviously cannot be adopted without its extension. Dear Minister, we will not oppose the proposal of your law, despite all the awareness in New Slovenia. Thank you very much, but we also wish Members good luck to our football players that Ukraine kills 2 goals and improve summer 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Members and Members of the MPs of the Modern Centre Party are pleased that the negotiating parties, the government and trade unions have reached consensus on wage measures in the public sector that allow social peace in the country and at the same time allow for the adoption of the proposed law, which is part of the budget legislation. Both parties were aware that public servants are an important factor in our society, that they have contributed significantly to the reduction of the budget deficit since the implementation of the measures under the ULJF and that it is time for public servants to reduce the burden they bear. Above all, it is also important to realise that the reduction of this burden still needs to be introduced gradually and in accordance with the actual budgetary capabilities. In the Modern Centre Party and also in the Government, we are aware that there is a need for regulatory regulation in the public sector in order to ensure its greater effectiveness. To this end, a performance indicator at the level of the Authority, at individual level, needs to be set up to increase the expertise of public servants, to change certain institutions and rights that still represent a scaffolding fence from the past and to prevent the achievement of the desired objectives. The Ministry of Public Administration has prepared a bill on the public sector wage system and public servants law, calling on trade unions to enter into negotiations responsibly and co-form institutions with the government that will form our public administration and public servants into real creators of legal culture in all respects. In part, the Government also took into account local self-government’s comments, saying that the municipalities need additional resources because of the free austerity measures. In doing so, we cannot help but overlook the fact that the number of jobs has increased by 9% in the municipalities at a time when the public administration has decreased. In addition, the Government has offered a number of suggestions to the congregations on the basis of which they could save on their organisation, and unfortunately not much has happened in this area. The municipalities and, of course, the local communities are our great gain, and it has turned out that a large part of our country has developed on the basis of this organisation. That is why we call on mayors to connect municipal administrations and other services at the logistical level, because we see a lot of options here, a lot of savings, and at the same time, with the start of logistical integration, we would inevitably come up with a substantive connection that will sooner or later be necessary. The sooner we are aware of this, the sooner we will offer new added value to our local environment. Members of the SMC Group are pleased that public servants will also feel the effects of better financial indicators in our country because they deserve it and we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u239	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u240	Good evening, everyone! At the time of the proposal for a law regulating emergency wage measures and other costs for the work of public servants, the government stated that the adoption of the law is a necessity, as the proposal for a law regulates the extension of emergency wage measures and other costs for the work of public servants. The non-admission of the law would entail the release of austerity measures in the area of wages and other labour costs. The Act is intended to be an integral part of the measures included in the draft budget for 2016 and 2017. A somewhat unusual message from the government, which, while in the same breath, is quick to explain on the side of populationism and its own promotion, is that Slovenia has reached the time for optimism, since the country is recording economic growth and achieving good macroeconomic indicators. The 2016 budget is intended to be the first budget after the crisis, when Slovenia is expected to breathe more easily. But the truth is different, and the government must not run from it. The positive indicators we are recording today are mainly the result of the real and timely measures taken by the then Janša government, adopted at a time when Slovenia also faced the crisis of the European and wider dimensions. There have been many and still many things heard and reported today, including by this coalition, which today prolongs these measures and even introduces some as permanent. In short, when there is no longer a need to tighten the belt in other countries, our government turns certain temporary measures into permanent measures, while others, which are also the subject of this law, is called the Act on Measures in the Field of Wages and Other Labour Costs, and in fact provides for a new one. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are constantly aware that we cannot spend more than we create in the country and that we cannot continue to be indebted. Knowing that we leave our debts to our children should unite us and strengthen us in our position to act extremely responsible. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also aware that, in view of the 2016 anti-investment budget, which the economy also points out, the country is not promising anything good. Even more so, as the government is continuing its debt on the one hand and on the other hand it does not have the right measures to increase competitiveness and economic prosperity. There are still no measures that would represent more than the need to reorganise public administration. The proposed proposal, however, interferes with the mass of wages, although after providing Minister Koprivnik before the negotiations something else has been said entirely. Unfortunately, the fate of this picture of the country must be borne by the public sector in addition to taxes. Despite some of the trade union's negotiating successes, your actions are such that people in the public sector will continue to work, who will have to receive an allowance for intervention or minimum wage. We will still not reward those who do good and more and represent significant added value. The Minister of Finance also announced certain additional austerity measures in other public sector services due to the latter union agreement. The agreement reached between Minister Koprivnikar and the first man of the union negotiators Struklem also leaves a rather poor taste and does not give the right reason for satisfaction, as it is reported that the trade unions of that part of the public sector, which is today in the face of a difficult security situation in the country, namely the military, health care, health workers, firefighters, have not joined the agreement. Moreover, police officers, because of their difficult situation, which they have been alerting for a long time, will begin tomorrow with a sentence. That's enough intel. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already tried to reach an amendment on the competent working body to ensure that those most exposed in times of difficulty are properly paid, i.e. police officers, health workers, soldiers, firefighters, but the amendment has been rejected before we have even been able to present it. The attitude of the government coalition, which we are accustomed to in the opposition, but this time you also point to an extremely irresponsible attitude towards those for whom you like to stress how proud you are of when it comes to extraordinary situations and are available to you day and night. In short, today we re tabled the amendment and you have a retrial. I hope you take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u241	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u242	Mr President, Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Desus Group we welcome the agreement reached on 10. 11. 2015 concluded by representatives of 26 representative public sector unions and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Both sides are satisfied, both in the public sector, which, after years, improve their position as well as in a country that can continue to function in a stable manner. In other words, the signed agreement on public sector wages is a relief for both government and trade unions. By signing the agreement, you have been able to ensure that in 2016 public servants will also slowly start to obtain payments for their work while at the same time ensuring a stable state budget for the coming year. It must be recognised that the negotiators of both sides, however, managed to prevent the worst scenario in which all austerity measures would be released in accordance with last year's agreement with the new year. In this case, public spending would increase by EUR 350 million and an additional EUR 148 million will be deducted for salaries in the coming year. In the parliamentary group, we are pleased that the two negotiating parties have expressed their will after further coordination, so the government and trade union parties will negotiate a gradual release of measures at the beginning of next year and a framework for increasing public sector labour costs from 2017 to 2019 and the agreement could be concluded by the end of April at the latest. And what does the signed agreement bring? With the previously agreed release of advances to pay grade and title, it also includes the release of the salary scale with September 2016. The basic salaries of public servants will thus increase by half to almost 5%. Next year, there will also be a higher annual vacation regression, but it will continue to be limited. Employees up to the 15th pay grade, who received €692 gross last year and this year, will receive a full regression of the minimum wage next year. Employees posted in 31st to 40th. Class, they'll get 696 euros, those from the 41st to 50th classes 450 euros. Unlike this year, when they got nothing, 350 Euros of regression will also be given to those who are in the 51st grade or higher. However, public servants can most fully look forward to the release of advances, which will raise wages for some from 4% to 20%. In the Desus Group, we will support this proposal of the law with the amendments adopted. We also expect constructive cooperation from government and union representatives in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u243	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law regulating wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2016 has been prepared by the Government together with the budgetary documents for 2016 and 2017. The content of the law under consideration today was the subject of negotiations between trade unions and the Government. Given that an agreement has been reached and that a declaration has been signed on the level of harmonisation of the text of the law with the amendments that have been prepared, which we have supported by the Members and Members of the home labour force, we will support the proposal of the Social Democrats Group. However, we regret that the agreement was signed by representatives of 26 representative unions of 40. On the basis of the agreement reached, public servants will be entitled to a higher regression according to previous years. Staff serving up to and including the 30th pay grade will receive a rebate of EUR 790.73, from the 31st to the 40th salary class to be paid in the amount of EUR 696, higher regression payments will also be paid to staff members enrolled in wage classes above the 41st and 51st grades, i.e. EUR 450 and 350. With 1. 9. 2016 also applies the salary scale, which was applied on 1 June 2012. The amendments contained in the amended draft law also concern the termination of employment contracts, restrictions on the number of annual leave and restrictions on the conclusion of copyright and business contracts. We can assess that despite the agreement and the proposal adopted by the law, the state budget will be stable and public servants will only feel a little bit of economic growth. The release of promotions to public servants has not been the subject of negotiations or this agreement, but public servants from this title will finally be able to make progress. Notwithstanding the signed agreement between the unions and the Government, it should be noted that any reckless long-term interference with the public sector can have consequences for the quality of the public service and also for the financial sector. All citizens and citizens, or all those who live in Slovenia, are connected with the public sector from birth to death, in much of our lives more than we think or we want to acknowledge. Health care for children and young people, education and education, social welfare, care for the elderly and could also be listed. It is not to be overlooked that someone in this country also cares for public order and peace, for our security, for disaster relief. Someone is also concerned about ensuring a peaceful, stable environment where entrepreneurial and economic ideas can be developed. I'm afraid it's all worth it. Let us not forget that we are a Slovenian nation that is ageing and will have much to invest in the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we are confident that in the coming years we will continue to discuss the development of a high-quality public service for us users and how we will be able to provide adequate funds for the salaries of those who will implement and develop the public service.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u245	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u246	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2016 does not constitute significant progress, but even less steps towards improving the situation of employees in the public sector. It only means one thing – the continuation of austerity measures in the public sector. It is supposed to be an intervention law containing provisional measures, but we are still dealing with it again every year. Given that the first agreement on austerity measures with trade unions was concluded in 2009, i.e. about six years ago, it is difficult to say that it is only temporary measures. In the United Left with the Law Proposal, we are so simply not satisfied. According to the promises of the coalition and the minister, we expected to get something else on the table at that time, rather than merely extending the savings. To this day, in the field of the public sector and the urgent removal of the anomalies within it, the Minister has not prepared a single solution. Moreover, we have the feeling that for a minister, only numbers are employed in the public sector and we know what kind of cost in the harshest sense of the word. And that he prefers primarily to devote himself to the cloud, to the information technology and to the real property of the country. Despite the fact that anomalies within the existing system should be removed long ago. The new salary system was established in 2008 and the first anomalies within it began to appear in the same year. The removal of these anomalies is also one of the points of the agreement concluded each year by the Government with the unions. Apart from the various analyses that confirm the existence of anomalies, nothing has been done so far. The Minister himself is pleased to say that the public sector is the engine of state development and that an environment needs to be provided as soon as possible to develop the professional potential of public servants and quality public services. In the United Left, we believe that by prolonging the austerity measures and maintaining the existing anomalies, it will by no means achieve this. This will not be possible at all as long as the public perception is made that our public sector is rich and full of luxury, as the minister says in the same breath with the previous statement. Such a discourse should be abolished, as it represents a dangerous rhetoric of the application of distorted image with persistent repetition. Of course, the truth is completely different. Public sector development is a good indicator of living standards in the country. In the Slovenian public sector, 22.9% of all employees are employed, which makes us exactly the EU average. The fact that too many public sector statements as the culprit for the economic crisis are not true is also evidenced by the fact that the crisis was felt at least by the countries with the largest public sector. In Denmark and Norway, for example, this share is 35% and in Sweden 28%, while on the other hand Mexico and Chile stand at 11%. If we want public, free and quality education and health care, we also need to provide enough public servants. In the United Left, of course, we are opposed to any privatisation of public services or decommissioning of the level of the social state. That is why we are also opposed to constant cuts in the public sector and calls for a reduction of this. Where the continuous extension of the austerity measures leads, we have seen the police case. A multi-annual universal ban on employment, forced retirement, insufficient resources for equipment and education, all of which are returned to us today as boomerang. The police are heavily fed, and they're paying police officers hard too low. That's why they strike tomorrow. And this practice the Government continues. All that matters is how much we can save today, what it means in the long run, you don't care about the government. As we have seen through the consideration of budgets for the next two years, the alternatives on the revenue side, which mainly relate to taxation of capital and the rich, do not smell too much. The easiest thing to do is to cut into the public sector and present the austerity measures as a gift to public servants. It is not a gift; it is only a minimum reduction in the scope of the austerity measures introduced by the ZUJF, which took away 460 million euros from the public sector. The fact that this 460 million euro savings caused a 700 million-dollar decline in GDP is clearly not moving the government. We will therefore not support the bill in the United Left, as the extension of the austerity measures has both short-term and long-term negative consequences. In addition, in a system where the first pay grade is set at 440 euros, in a system where there are as many as 15 wage classes below the minimum wage, and in a system where there are 23 000 560 public employees in these classes, we really do not know where this luxury is, in which we are supposed to cut just each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u247	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 14 of the bill, which has been published on the e-club. With regard to this amendment, I note that it has been incorrectly tabled, so we will neither discuss nor vote on it. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments may only be made to the amended draft law in respect of the articles to which the mother's working body has accepted amendments. The SDS Group would like the content relating to Article 6 of the draft law to be regulated by Article 14 concerning restrictions on the conclusion of educational contracts. No amendments were adopted by the home working body at Article 6 and no amendments could therefore be tabled at the meeting of the assembly to this Article of the amendments. The SDS Group is an amendment that could only be tabled by 6. Article 14 where it does not belong. However, only amendments concerning restrictions on the conclusion of contracts in education could be made to this Article. There is no basis for such conduct in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the second reading, the SDS amendment was properly tabled by the SDS Group at its parent working body meeting with this content by 6. Article, but not accepted. If the debate and vote on that amendment were to be allowed, this would be an important precedent for the continuation of the work of the National Assembly relating to the submission of amendments to the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly on the supplementary proposal of the law. This would practically mean that almost no restrictions on the application of amendments would apply, thus circumventing the decisions taken at the meeting of the home working body. On this basis, I note that in the second reading, the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled and I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conditions of Concession for the Exploitation of the Energy Potential of the Lower Union, following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and the Magi area. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The applicable Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava was adopted in 2008 and the refunds were adopted in 2004 and were subsequently amended or supplemented twice. The current law lays down the conditions for the implementation of the concession for the exploitation of water energy potential in the area of Lower Sava from Suhadol to the state border with the Republic of Croatia, lays down the conditions to be met by the concessionaire in the planning of the construction of concession facilities, and regulates the concession for the use of water, for the production of electricity in the Hydroelectric Power Plants of Vrhovo, Boštanj, Blanca, Krško, Brežice and Mokrice by exploiting the water potential of Lower Sava. The proposed amendment to the law, which is currently under consideration, is part of the financial legislation package. Its main purpose is to extend the construction deadlines and thus enable the real implementation of the law. The extension of the deadlines relates to the construction and acquisition of the usable permit itself, as well as the extension of the deadlines for financing the construction from the Climate Change Fund and the Water Fund. The extension of the deadline is urgently necessary in order to provide financial resources, and the proposed law also proposes some other amendments that will facilitate the implementation of the law. The buildings of the current law provide that the entire hydroelectric power plant chain should be built by the end of 2016 at the latest and that the applicable authorisation should be obtained by 2017. The deadline for the construction of a whole chain of hydroelectric power plants is as proposed by the amendment of the law at the end of 2019 and a new deadline for obtaining a usable permit at the end of 2020. The deadlines laid down in Article 17a are also corrected, so that the deadline is no longer 21. 12. 2015, but a transitional provision can be applied until the end of the construction of the Hydroelectric Brežica, which is foreseen by the end of 2019 at the latest. In this way it is possible that, in the event that sufficient funding is not provided for the financing of infrastructure facilities by the end of this year, these facilities shall be financed from the Climate Change Fund and the Water Fund by the end of 2019 at the latest. Other amendments proposed by the novel – the legal basis for the classification of objects, the plan of the development programmes of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is also a programme for the implementation of the facilities already adopted by the Government under Article 8(2) of ZPKEPS. A legal basis has been added because it is important because it is a specific arrangement for the construction of buildings, which is regulated by a specific law. The content of the investment programme is already covered by the programme for the implementation of water, state and local infrastructures adopted by the Government. This has already fulfilled the elements for the decision to implement a specific investment. In addition, the amendment proposes that the possibility of financing infrastructure from concessionaires' own resources should also be added to the funding sources of water infrastructure facilities in an indivisible relationship, in accordance with a prior agreement with the concessionaire. These are objects which are otherwise defined as water and energy infrastructure facilities, but in an indivisible relationship. Let me finish. With the expiry of the deadlines under the law currently in force, it would be impossible to continue financing the construction of the entire hydroelectric power plant chain and the proposed novelty is essential to enable the construction to be carried out and to allow for further funding in accordance with the envisaged manner and structure of financing under the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u249	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u250	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honorable representative of the government! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 23rd emergency meeting, on 12. 11. 2015 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. On behalf of the proposer, Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister of Environment and Space, explained that the law in force provides for the construction of the entire hydroelectric power plant chain by the end of 2016 at the latest, and that a valid permit should be obtained by the end of 2017. The proposal for a law provides for an extension of the deadline for the construction of the chain at the end of 2019 and an extension of the deadline for obtaining the applicable authorisation at the end of 2020. However, another important amendment represents the correction of the time limit laid down in Article 17a of the preceding provision, which currently allows for that if up to 31. 12. 2015 will not provide funding for the financing of infrastructure facilities referred to in Article 60(2) of the Act, provide any missing funds from the Water Fund or other budgetary resources for the construction of HE on the Lower Sava. The proposal for a law extends this period so that a transitional provision can be applied by the end of 2019. In presenting their opinion, the President of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Mr Verbic, said that the Commission did not support the proposal for a law, but pointed out that it was necessary to provide funds for the timely construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava, since otherwise the concessionaire would suffer considerable financial damage and the Republic of Slovenia could also be punished by the European Commission for failing to meet the binding targets on renewable energy sources. With regard to the proposed amendments to the bill, Hdroelectrica’s Director at Lower Sava pointed out that the extension of the construction deadline for HE Brežica to 2019 was in particular dispute with their company, as the concessionaire was already building an object whose construction was envisaged in all business and development plans at the end of 2016, and that deadline included contracts with operators and business banks that had granted credit to the company amounting to EUR 60 million. As a result, the expected extension of the deadline could cause considerable financial damage to the company and therefore called for the maintenance of the deadline for the construction of infrastructure facilities by the end of 2016. The debate expressed a common view that investing in hydropower or the construction of hydroelectric power plants is the greatest multiplier effect, as it is one of the cheapest ways of producing electricity, which is both environmentally sound or renewable energy sources, and investments to this end also constitute the opening up of new jobs. As a result, uniform support was expressed for all measures that will allow for the fullest possible implementation of HE projects on the Lower Sava. With regard to HESS’s warning that the extension of the deadlines for the construction of HE Brežica would have negative financial implications for the concessionaire, it was pointed out that the claim in the formal components of the bill that it would have no impact on the economy did not hold. It was pointed out that it was necessary to prevent an extension of the time limit and, on the other hand, some deadlines were pointed out to be reasonable, as the facts show that they had been repeatedly misjudged and subsequently amended or extended in this law so far. In this connection, Mr Leon Behin, Director-General of the Directorate for Water and Investment at the Ministry of the Environment, explained that the proposed extension of the transitional provision in Article 17a merely provides the legal basis for the financing of infrastructure facilities referred to in Article 6(2) of the applicable law of the Water Fund or the State Budget even after 31. 12. 2015, if necessary and in no way prejudges the completion of the construction of HE Brežica. As a result, an amendment has been proposed and adopted by the coalition groups, which amends Article 3 of the bill in a way that removes any doubt as to whether the extension of the deadline for the construction of HE Brežica at the end of 2019 is prejudiced. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. However, he adopted his amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 and then voted jointly and adopted them in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u251	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thanks again for saying that. The Government has submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the conditions of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, whereby the deadlines for the construction of the entire chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava are coordinated with a view to ensuring funding of the Water Fund or other budgetary resources for the financing of infrastructure facilities referred to in Article 6(2) of the Act. The original proposal of the law was also newly regulated by the founding rights of the Republic of Slovenia in the public company Infra, d. o. o., but the law in this part was withdrawn from the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service with the amendment of the coalition parties. In the SMC Group, we estimate that any amendment to the law intended to provide a legal basis for financing the construction of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava needs to be supported, since the completion of this project is one of the commitments of the coalition agreement. Construction of hydroelectric power plants has many positive effects on the economy and the environment. Many domestic companies are involved in the project, meaning that much of the investment remains so on the domestic soil. Watercourses are also regulated for the construction of hydroelectric infrastructure by ensuring flood safety, which has been of exceptional importance in the last decade, as we are increasingly facing floods. It should also be noted that Slovenia has committed itself to achieving at least 25% of the share of renewable energy in the gross end-use of energy by 2020. In line with the Action Plan for Renewable Resources, this commitment will be achieved through the construction of hydroelectric power plants on Sava. In the adoption process, there were criticisms of the amendment of Article 17a to amend the deadline for HE Brežica to 2019, which was denied by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, since this article does not set a deadline for the construction of hydroelectric power plants. This is provided for in Article 10, paragraph 1, of this Law, which provides, following a new proposal, that the whole chain must be built by the end of 2019 at the latest and that the applicable authorisation will be obtained by the end of 2020. Article 17a therefore merely prolongs the financing of infrastructure facilities referred to in Article 6(2) of the Water Fund and other budgetary resources law, those which would otherwise be financed from the Climate Change Fund in the event that such funds would not be sufficient from this Fund. In this regard, the Committee has also adopted an amendment setting out more clearly Article 17a in order to determine the period of drawdown of the Water Fund and, as has been regulated so far, does not regulate the deadline for the construction of the He Brežica Fund. Of course, it is understood that such a provision does not oblige the Government to provide the necessary resources for the construction of HE Brežica so as not to delay the operation of the hydroelectric power plant itself and thus the economic damage that HES points out. Therefore, as the bill extends the period for the provision of funds for the construction of hydroelectric power plants, the SMC Group will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u253	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Before us is the new Law on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava. We have a re-admission of the novel under urgent procedure. According to the Minister, this procedure needs to be carried out; two important changes, firstly, the amendment of the law prolongs the period of completion of investments on the Lower Sava, and secondly, the amendment of Article 17 which provides the means to build up the full investment from the Climate and Water Fund as budget resources. If this amendment is not adopted by the end of 2015, the possibility of financing or co-financing these investments from the Climate and Water Fund will be extinguished. The Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council, which did not support the proposal for a law, also presented its position on the parent committee, because it does not support the extension of the deadlines for the construction of HE Brežica and the Hydropower Plant Mokrica. The Commission aligns itself with the view of the Ministry of Infrastructure that it is necessary to seek funds for the timely construction of those hydropower plants, since otherwise the concessionaire will suffer considerable financial damage and the Republic of Slovenia will be liable to be punished by the European Commission for failing to meet the binding targets on renewable energy sources. There is also a need to note the lack of harmonisation of the bill, since the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Infrastructure do not have a unified position. The fact is that HA Brežice is already being built since March 2014, and works are also being carried out on infrastructure, which is an integral part of the entire project. The works are fully operational, both hydroelectric and infrastructure work must be completed by the end of 2016. All deadlines are harmonised and work is normally carried out and it is unacceptable that a change will be made in the law to extend the implementation of this indivisible infrastructure until 2019. This delay for three years results in significant material damage to energy work. The energy equipment to be installed will not be functional and will not produce electricity. Equipment will need to be preserved, loans will need to be reprogrammed and all bank guarantees linked to the contracts already signed need to be extended. This is a very difficult financial situation with absolutely negative economic consequences. Finally, the state budget will not have inflows from energy production and water compensation, as the facility will not operate for three years. However, I must also point out the risk of further consequences in the case of large waters, as both the energy part of the power plant and the unfinished infrastructure work may be damaged. Due to the failure to complete the facility, flood safety is not guaranteed in the wider area. It is therefore necessary to ensure, from an economic, technical and security point of view, that all works are completed in accordance with the envisaged timetable. That is why I expect Members not to support the extension of the deadlines for the construction of hydro power plants on the Lower Sava, but to support our amendment. This enables the concessionaire to continue the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava and to complete it as quickly as possible and safely as possible. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, if our amendment is voted, we will also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u255	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, distinguished representative of the Government! We have yet another draft law, which is an integral part of the measures included in the draft budgets for 2016 and 2017, and therefore the law must be adopted at the same time as the draft budget for 2016 and 2017 under the urgent procedure. The objectives of the law are in particular to ensure the sustainable use of natural resources, to ensure the construction of energy facilities for the Lower Sava, and the main purpose is to ensure the smooth financing of the remaining part of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the Lower Sava. It's two major changes. For the first, the closing period of the investment in the Lower Sava shall be extended. An even more important amendment is the amendment of Article 17a, which speaks of the provision of funds to secure the construction of an investment from budgetary resources, namely the Climate and Water Fund. If we do not adopt this amendment in 2015, it will put out the possibility of financing or co-financing this investment from the Climate and Water Fund. Of course, in the Desus Group, we would like the construction of hydroelectric power plants to take place faster, not only because of the possibility of exploiting water potential, but mainly because of the provision of flood protection. Unfortunately, we witness almost every year natural disasters caused by rising rivers that threaten houses, flood buildings, and roads. With the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, much attention was therefore paid to project solutions that would limit floods of larger dimensions in the area of Krka village and Veliki Malenc. In the Desus Group, we are confident that the Government will seek to find funds for the construction of hydroelectric power plants before the deadlines laid down by this law, so we will of course support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u257	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u258	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! What's most important in Maribor is 1 : 0. However, what is given is that clean, affordable and supply-efficient electricity is one of the basic pillars of the development and growth of modern society, especially those who have the ambition to be among the most developed and to enable their inhabitants and economies, on the one hand, to have a healthy living environment and, on the other hand, adequate supply of energy resources necessary to ensure adequate conditions for both social and economic development. This characteristic of the most successful countries is also in this respect that they are able to manage natural resources rationally and in a sustainable manner, with those at their disposal and with those that can be found in the home environment. It is therefore important to realise that Slovenia has a very competitive advantage in this respect, since it can use water as one of the main sources of energy production, hydropower, which is one of the renewable sources that enables clean electricity, for a price that allows for increased competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, including at the expense of the possibility of using cheaper energy than other economies in related countries. Even if we look through the prism of investment potential, the investment in hydropower is one of the most grateful because it achieves one of the highest multiplier effects on the invested funds. If we add to this the fact that we have a number of companies in the Slovenian space capable of performing with all the references and knowledge as contractors in the construction of hydropower facilities, then it is clear that investments in hydropower deserve support and we do not need delays or delays accordingly. So far, as is logical, the project for the construction of low-level hydroelectric power plants has been carried out to a greater extent in line with the planned timetables and within the planned financial projections. We Social Democrats were so much negative over the forecast that it could be expected to extend the deadlines for the construction of the hydroelectric Brežica, which could bring about a situation where in the country we had an energy facility ready to start without the appropriate infrastructure that would allow us to start exploiting the planned hydropotential. As a result of the projected extension of the deadlines for financing the construction of the infrastructure part of the power plant, a gap would arise between the planned financial and economic objectives and the time-concluded capacity of construction, which would become so large that it could only be measured in losses in the long term. However, the short-term budget savings would soon compensate for major losses, financial, economic and environmental. This is particularly important because we know that the aim of this government is to maintain stable economic growth, to strengthen economic activity and to ensure the highest standards of environmental and also flood protection. Therefore, after a number of consultations at which the Social Democrats have actively cooperated as advocates of the early completion of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava, we are pleased that the parent committee has listened to the investor's arguments and, through the amendment, has allowed the construction of the energy and related infrastructure part of the investment to be synchronized and thus has created conditions for economic, environmental and developmental extension, which could and could be harmful, not to become a reality. Since they have been adopted, mostly, including the positions of the Social Democrats and will allow for the continuation of one of the most important infrastructure projects in the Republic of Slovenia, we will support the law by the Social Democrats. Thank you so much and we're waiting for 2:0.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u259	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u260	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good evening and thank you for your word! To begin with, before I go to the details, which hide the essentials, let me say that in the Group of Members, the United Left supports the last version of the bill. However, we still have a lot of problems with him, especially with the way we came up with this version of the bill. This path sums up this coalition in many ways, in particular how it tries to conceal its unpleasant truth with many popular words, how the rule of law actually stands for the rule of lawyers, the slogans such as those on inclusiveness and connectivity, and the will of coalition ministers and government officials. Let me explain. The Coalition Agreement on the Cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the 2014-2018 term, as this Government has named its joint programme, also talks about investments in hydropower plants on Sava, and emphasises that, if I quote, "through the participatory decision-making process", the end of the quote should be ensured that there is no delay in their construction and that funding for the entire investment and not just its energy work will be covered. In the case of this particular law, we can see how this government presents itself with democracy and a participatory decision-making process, as it says. And how he strives for the timeliness and rationality of his investments. Remember, the proposal for a law has been tabled by the Government for parliamentary consideration following an urgent procedure, with minimal justification and justification. The legislative and legal service has torn apart the first two articles, the opposition and the interested public 3. The key, 4 and so provide only for the entry into force of the law. In preparing the law, the government did not consult either with the concessionaire, or with the public service. This government had to point out by letter that the extension of the deadlines for the construction of the infrastructure part of Brežica hydroelectrica from 2017 to 2019 would result in a direct loss of energy production of at least EUR 18 million. But the story doesn't end here. Notwithstanding the fact that the government has tabled a proposal for a law by emergency procedure and that the proposal has been poorly prepared and apparently completely uncoordinated by all criteria, the Coalition parties have not tabled their own amendments to correct the impression of urgency and superficiality, if I am restrained and do not use any worse words. The amendments were tabled and adopted only at a meeting of the working body and three of the four articles, leaving unchanged only Article 4, the one on the entry into force of the law. And so, fellow Members, this Government is fulfilling its promises to start its mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u261	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u262	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to be brief, keep watching the game, keep my fists for our footballers. But the honourable President, colleagues, Slovenia's commitment to achieve at least 25% of the final energy consumption balance by 2020 is becoming increasingly unrealistic. Since electricity production from Brežica Hydroelectrica and Mokrica Hydroelectrica during this period represents a 28% share of all the new generation needs from renewable energy sources, Slovenia will not achieve this binding objective by extending the entire hydroelectric power chain. In addition, we must not ignore the fact that the concessionary hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava is already building the infrastructure of the facility for the Hydroelectric Brežice, since all development plans are scheduled to be built at the end of 2016. All contracts concluded with operators and banks which have granted EUR 60 million of credit to the concessionaire for this purpose are also tied to this deadline. While the Government has not even informed about the proposed extension of the deadlines for the construction of the concessionaire's infrastructure work, it shows that the Government is indeed in a hurry. Of course, since the amendment of the law is proposed only by emergency procedure and is, of course, linked to the adoption of the budget for the next two years, that is, for just as long as the construction deadlines themselves are being extended. The government even argues that such a proposal has no financial implications. Let's see. The real picture is quite different, despite the already built energy work, the concessionaire will not be able to start operating and manufacturing at the Brežice Hydroelectrica, thereby causing economic damage of course. In society, it is estimated that at least €18 million. However, the damage will not only be caused by it, given that hydropower plants on the Lower Sava will have a multiplier effect on the state budget and on the whole economy. In Novi Slovenija we therefore oppose ad hoc resolution, especially since it is more than obvious that the Government is not even harmonised in this case. In particular, the Ministry of Infrastructure opposes the extension of those deadlines and points out the content of the coalition agreement on cooperation in the Government, which states that the construction of a chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Sava should be continued without delay. It is also necessary to provide financial resources for the entire investment and not just for the energy model. The Ministry as a department clearly thinks otherwise. Another important change is today’s novelties of the law. If, by the end of the construction of the Hydroelectric Brežica, or by the end of 2019 at the latest, sufficient funds are not provided for the financing of infrastructure facilities for the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava, any missing funds will be provided from the Water Fund, from other budgetary resources or from the concessionaire under prior agreement with the concessionaire. While the proposaler argues that this does not prejudge the conclusion of the construction of the Hydroelectric Brežica, we are, of course, strongly doubting this. In fact, how else to understand the dictatorship, I quote, "by the end of the construction of the Hydroelectric Brežica or at the latest by the end of 2019", as well as the possibility that the construction of this hydroelectric power plant itself could continue until the end of 2019. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will be in New Slovenia because of many open issues and, of course, because of the fear that the Republic of Slovenia will not achieve a binding target on renewable energy by 2020, which will make it very likely that we will also pay penalties, and we will oppose these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u263	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Colleagues, fellows who insist! A couple of my thoughts, considering I'm coming from Posavio. The Government has written down in the draft law, quote, "that the proposed amendment to the law is an integral part of the measures included in the draft budget for 2016 and 2017, so the law must be adopted at the same time as the draft budget for the two years following the urgent procedure". Which means between the lines, the country in the budgets for 2016 and 2017 does not want to provide financial resources for the completion of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava, which is why it is, of course, the easiest thing to do is to amend the law and extend the completion of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava from the future plans that we are also following in our amendment, namely that the water power plant Brežice will be added by the end of 2016 and the water power plant Mokrice by the end of 2019. Moreover, the amendment adopted on the committee by the coalition or committee extending until the end of 2019 is, in fact, even worse if we look strictly after months than the proposal of the law itself. There it was said in 2019 and now they had coalition members of the fora until the end of 2016. I would like to quote a few more articles of the law, which also touches the third article of our amendment. The government writes, "We want to fund the rest of the hydro power plants at the bottom of the Sava without any money, amending the law and extending the construction time." In the second sentence, the same government, which prolongs the construction of hydroelectric power plants, writes, "the insecure financing of further construction or the lack of funding would result in significant material damage and consequently higher electricity prices". And look at the fraction, and in the law and in the amendments, it's completely different. Apparently, this government continues with this policy, which is joyfully happening from day to day. One is words, the other is actions. Moreover, the government writes, quote, "the bill has no implications for the state budget". It's a complete lie. I'll read to you later what the concessionaire wrote down by the Ministry of Infrastructure. As the construction of the Brežice and Mokrice hydroelectric power plants is moving, the subsequent influx from concession fees and the water refund is back in the budget, so financial damage is being done and not what the Government claims. Furthermore, the government writes, "the law has no effect on the economy". Another lie. The concessionaire himself calculated that the economic damage will only flow between 15 million and 20 million over two years, some numbers show 14, 18, and additional resources will be needed to preserve the built equipment, to pay for the damage to operators and more. Economic damage is done – the government records, no consequences. Furthermore, the Government writes, "the proposed law includes changes that have environmental implications", but forgets to add that negative. I want to know who will answer again, if God doesn't, what floods will take place at this time due to the delay that you will obviously confirm today, who will be responsible for damage to infrastructure work, energy, agriculture, economic operators and, above all, who will be responsible for the damage to people living at the Lower Sava hydropower plant, namely, the Great Malenca and the rest of the villages there near Savi. I come from the municipality of Sevnica, and I know what I'm talking about when floods hit us several times in the past, and also because of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava, these floods have drifted away. The next ones to be affected by the floods were the Krkans, and the Krška hydroelectric power plant was built, and there was no flood in Kršek. And now the joy of Sava sails against Brežica and no one has a problem that would probably ever be responsible for environmental damage in the future. That is why I really appeal, I have prepared it in cooperation with my fellow Members of the Parliamentary Committee Amendment Group, you have rejected it, I have prepared it for the meeting of the National Assembly today, and I appeal to all those who are concerned that no financial damage is done in the budget, that no economic damage is done, and that no environmental damage is done, that you support this amendment and follow the timetables of the previous governments and especially the concessionaires. So I'm going to his letter. The first mistake that this government has afforded, this minister obviously does not listen to anyone but himself, HESS writes: "Although any change in the law in question can have a significant impact on the business of our society, we have not been officially informed of the proposed changes." This is how this Minister for Environment and Space and probably the whole government imagines, but we will be solving the post festivals, even if there is financial damage, economic or environmental, we will do our part and the citizens will be wiped out under their noses. And here they explain exactly what can and can be done if the completion of the hydroelectric power plant is extended. The coalition MPs and the government are nothing. But apparently in the government, someone's just thinking about infrastructure and investments. We received two letters from Minister Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure, where he writes: "We have received a letter from HESS in knowledge and we fully agree with the proposal." And then, "the construction of a hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava is crucial to achieving the binding objective of the Republic of Slovenia in terms of renewable resources, in short, projects represent a third of the objectives that we need to achieve or a third of the commitments we have to implement by 2020 if we want to do something about renewable resources, but not just talk." And what will the coalition do? It will support the extension of the completion of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant. You also extend those rare investment projects that are in state budgets. Yesterday and today we're hearing, "It's not what the opposition says, we're making investments." Which one? It says here that the biggest investment project is in construction, and you're prolonging it. And with this you do damage to the state budget, economic operators and I hope not, I really hope not environmental damage if anything happens in the autumn, winter, spring 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. If there are floods, from whom can we ask for answers and for material and other harm? From who? From the MPs of the National Assembly who will support this law and, of course, from the minister who proposes such a stupid law at all. I would like to know what the vote will be, in particular, of the Posavia Members in this National Assembly, whether they will be in words or even in action for Posavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u265	Yes, first of all, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Madam President! I'll support this amendment myself. The same amendment was also tabled on the parent’s working body and what is not much to add to this argument, which has already been given. I would like to point out, however, that at this meeting of the parent working body, we have dealt with two similar laws that touch on the subject of water refunds of concessions and so on. In the latter case, too, it is in the Government's explanation that this law is an urgent procedure which must be confirmed in the course of the budgetary discussions, but all of you in the coalition eventually rejected this law, which means that the Government will obviously have a problem with budgetary coordination. In this case, however, it is a similar matter where we are actually moving some investment into a future period of at least three years. In view of the discussions I have listened to, all fellow Members of Parliament, you are all committed to making this investment as soon as possible, because you are all aware of the consequences, they are also highlighted in the works of the Ministry of Infrastructure. At least, according to my experience, it is the first time that two ministries with different positions come to the National Assembly for a meeting of the parent working body and that even members of the coalition do not try to find out why two ministers of the same government with different positions to one problem. And when we all warn that there will be economic damage and damage on the premises and, finally, damage that is potential in the event of a flood, you will all be listening in some way and you will obviously not change your mind when making your decision. Why is it so important that the hands are written down the way we have them in the amendment? If we leave open the possibility of completing the facilities by 2019, it will not only be hypothetical, but it will be a fact for the state budget, for the ministry, because whoever has ever implemented any legislation, where some possibility has been allowed to extend, it has also been implemented. We have a lot of experience, and with the laws on large-scale beaches, which are linked to the same ministry, and the earthquake law other things, wherever they were not clearly recorded, the ministry has always taken an easier path. And given the explanation that they actually need these resources in other areas, it is clear that this investment will not be built within the time limit. And at that time, in the National Assembly, we will once again parliamentary and speak to the committees on the economy, the infrastructure, how poorly investments are managed, do not end up in the deadlines that we first got to the table, they have been confirmed, the previous governments have accepted them, they have entered into the law. Then the Members, nothing to me, nothing to you, without informing these investors, these concessionaires, these people involved in the projects, we extend the deadline of three years. And we're going to be smart again and we're going to say that everything is wrong in this country, no one knows how to make an investment, but no one is going to ask ourselves that we're to blame for not having the project concluded. And in this case, that's exactly what this is about. And, as I say, in the next law, which you all eventually decided was inappropriate for further consideration, it was the same story. The Ministry has come up with a solution that has not been aligned with any local community, but has taken a lot of resources from local communities, regardless of the fact that they already have budgets. And in this case, it's the same thing. One economic company which has decided on the basis of the conclusions of this National Assembly to invest, also supported by all the resolutions and all the guidelines of this country in order to provide renewable resources, shall be implemented on a timely basis. At some point, we or you decide that we will no longer carry out this matter on schedule, but we will extend it for three years. And now you're going to say no, because it says no until 2019 at the latest. Now, I hope that you fellow Members are really consulting at least a little with those people working on the ground who have some experience with legislation and explain to you what such a dictatorship means. You can tell me for two more days that this does not mean that it is not possible to build a case in 2016. After all the experience, I assure you that means exactly what it says. And this project will not end in 2016, as planned, but the country will tell this investor that the money for providing or finally building a water facility is clearly talking about some dam that provides some accumulation of water for this hydroelectric plant, and thus flood safety for this area will not be built. And they'll say you'll get these funds in the next budget. The next budget will not be clear, they will be assured in 2019 and, of course, you will all talk about how poorly managed the project has been. I really hope that there is some common sense and that you will consider supporting this amendment, which actually obliges investors to stick to the deadlines and thus ensure that these investments are completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u267	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u268	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I have to respond to a discussion by colleagues of the SDS – but I do not want to be here, now I will say, advocates of the government, and I may place one criticism there too. But what you've just said is simply not true, not one sentence of it is true, because you haven't read the amendment that was adopted on your parent's working body. The problem of all this and these deadlines, which has been exposed in recent months, is that this Article, which is not intended at all, sets a deadline for the construction of HE Brežica for 2019. And as you have heard on the working body, Mr Behin said, we did not want to define the date of the construction of HE Brežica. This article is intended for something completely different. It is intended to draw on the Water Fund when there is not enough money in the Climate Fund. That's all it's meant to be, and that's why we accepted this amendment, where we threw that year of building HE Brežica out. The construction of HE Brežica and HE Mokrice is set out in Article 10, if I am not mistaken, of the first paragraph which is also corrected. It is corrected by essentially extending the deadline to 2019 for both hydroelectric and usable acquisitions 2020. You say, stick to our schedules. If we were to stick to your schedules, it would be a disaster. Because of your schedules, this law is from before, and it's always been wrong on time. If we were to stick to these deadlines, the next year we'd be building HE Mokrice and not even a shovel. And the problem of this government is how to provide money, how to finance the construction of a swimming pool for HE Brežice, let alone HE Mokrice. And this is the problem that the 17th article you were talking about does not determine the construction of the He Brežica, but the 10th article, which speaks of both hydropower plants. Your amendment says, HE Brežice in 2016, then 2019 HE Mokrice. Why has this never been in marriage before? Why wasn't it? It's never been like that. Now we'd give it up all of a sudden. And you know that it's unrealistic to build a HE Brežica is not just an accumulation pool and it has to be built to avoid damage, but it's also a flood protection. Inserting some deadlines that have not yet been put in place, and then being unrealistic, makes no sense. I agree that flood protection must be provided. My friend Lisec boasted that he was of Posavius and that he knew what it was like to flood in your Krk and in the Great Malenca. I tell you, I live in the Great Tiny, I already know better how it is, and I want this settled as soon as possible. But the problem that HESS has pointed out is that first it is necessary to provide funds for the pool if there is no economic damage. And here in this place I also appeal to the ministry, to the government, I hope you all realize that money is somewhere by the middle of next year, and then all the other resources will have to be provided to make it complete. The problem that we have in this area in the adoption of the budget and these laws may be greater in the absence of HE Mokrice in the NRP. But there is really a problem in that the project is far away, I will say, ahead of us, it is not to this extent or carried out, but I do not know if there will be any balance of the budget, it will also have to be put in if we want to meet the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia regarding renewable energy sources. As far as HE Brežice is concerned, this payment dynamic should be ensured by the end of 2016. This law has not yet been defined, but the government will have to provide this money. However, it will also be necessary to ensure the inclusion of HE Mokrica in the NRP and to provide certain funds and funding. For the time being, this funding, which is complementary, guaranteed, is said to be the law, something is coming from the Water Fund, something is coming from the Climate Fund for those matters that go from the Climate Fund, if the money is running out, the Water Fund will be used by the end of 2019 at the latest. I hope this will be more than done within this time frame. Here I also have in mind HE Mokrice, but if not, it will be another unrealistic date in the history of this law, which is 15 years old, which will have to be extended once again. But for now, I am optimistic that this will be realized as planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u269	Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u270	Yes, thank you, President! Allow first the explanation and then the procedural proposal. I was stabbed because Desus said, "The government will be trying to find the means." The SD said: investments in hydro power plants need support without delay. Mr Zorčič said: I appeal to the government to find the means that the current item is unrealistic, but he himself knows that this government has not provided funds. And procedurally, Mr President, I propose that before voting on the 2016 budget, Mr Zorčič please note that an amendment has been tabled to ensure, in accordance with the proposals of the Committee on Hydroelectric Power Plants at the Lower Sava, 59.5 million, 58.5 million for the completion of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, on the one hand, is well justified, and one million for the start of what you say you have left the NRP. So, Mr President, before the vote, I propose that you inform Mr Zorčič that he has the opportunity to reinforce his words with his actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u271	I'll answer that. I would certainly like to find a place in the Rules of Procedure on any procedural proposal on the basis of which such a warning should be given. As long as this town doesn't exist, there won't be a warning like that. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although probably we are watched by exactly four people, because others watch football, I have stayed in the hall and I will try to help these two Posavics to calm down a bit, and one and the other. Now, Tomaž, because of your strong fight for the hydroelectric Brežica you will not get a monument in Posavje, because I have to tell you one thing, however, that you are not in power for a while, and the hydroelectric power plants are being built, and they are being built, and they have opened up and believe that it will also be for that matter. Second. I must say that in the government, especially at the Ministry of the Environment, they need to start to think a little bit about what it means to build hydroelectric power plants for Slovenia. I'm afraid they don't know that exactly. I hope they will, as long as we learn to rule. First of all, why I don't think they know. Because they proved both the laws they filed. First of all, the Environmental Protection Act, where you wanted to take concessions to municipalities or rent municipalities that have hydroelectric power plants in their environment, is probably to get funds for the construction of a hydroelectric power plant in Posavje. But no, but at the same time, you've extended the construction of hydroelectric power plants in Posav. So that's the point where the mini went together, and I don't think you knew what you were doing. Okay, the Environmental Protection Act will, thank God, fall for one reason. If this law had not fallen, we would never have put any more hydropower plants, which we need primarily for three reasons, in any other congregation. Firstly, the local communities would not be interested in the hydropower plant being installed and the environment being degraded. Secondly, we would not have flood protection in these municipalities, and third, which is very important, we are not aware of, the construction of hydropower plants has such economic potential for this country that it can increase even by 2 percentage points of GDP. And fourthly, what I would like to point out is that 90% of the construction of hydro power plants can be done by Slovenian companies, we must be aware of that. Now, as far as this amendment is concerned, which, of course, in addition to being completely well-intentioned, is particularly promotional. This matter, and Tomaž knows this very well, but normally, because politics is here and promotion is significantly more important, he knows very well that the amendment we have adopted on the Infrastructure Committee, of course, allows no economic damage to be done if the Ministry of the Environment is sincere and will truly provide money for the construction of the swimming pool. Now, I know, Dani, what you're going to say isn't entirely true, what you think, yeah, if she's not married, there's not even gonna be any money. We have a bunch of laws in this Slovenia that have budget lines and I don't know what we had. Did something happen? Only laws for programming areas – it clearly states what the state has to provide for the Cowcle, for the Zasavje, for, I don't know what, we have everything written down, statistics, and there is no money for the budget. If the government does not provide money, you can have a golden marriage with fifteen articles, which accurately records the date, hour, and so on, if the government does not provide money, it will not be built. We know that. However, if this government and I hope it has, because we had all three parties on the programmes, that we would build hydropower plants on the Lower Sava, the Central Sava, and we still have an idea on the Mura, if it does not, then there is really no help to this government. I think this amendment is enough, and I believe, Tomaž, like you, Igor and I want the whole room here to be built quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u273	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you. Since we have little time, the amendment clearly speaks of the extension for the Brežice hydroelectric power plant to 2016 and for the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant until 2019, so there will be no mistake, the amendment is very consistent, as far as this is concerned. However, I have little concern if we are discussing that at the end of the day the law is not important, on the other hand, one would understand the previous debate, that it has nothing to do with what we are discussing here and what we are accepting or doing in one's own way or another. I don't agree with that. Once again, if the law is not explicitly recorded, the Ministry will always use that alibi to postpone it, because in the following year there will be insufficient resources, and they will say so by 2019. But if this is specified in the law, the government, the ministry, at least some obligations. Otherwise, there is no such thing. I suggest you think about it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u275	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 37th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law to supplement the law on environmental protection by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this proposal of the Infrastructure Committee, the environment does not propose to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Committee, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u276	Thank you for your word. Infrastructural Committee, the environment is not a place at the 23rd emergency meeting on 12. 11. 2015 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law supplementing the Environmental Protection Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service. In the supplementary explanation for the bill, on behalf of the proposer, the Minister of the Environment did not explain that the area of water management is very extensive, since Slovenia is an extremely rich country with water, and therefore the purpose of the proposal is to provide more resources for the systematic management of water at national level for the award of a water concession. It pointed out that concessions are granted where natural property enables the use of water for a specific purpose or where there is an economic initiative for individual use, and therefore individual concessions concentrate on individual rounded areas. In this connection, she stressed that the proposal could have very different financial effects on individual municipalities, especially taking into account the other budgets of municipalities or their size. On the other hand, municipalities, as in the case of hydroelectric power plants, are also not entitled to charge compensation for the use of building land. In the case of certain other economic uses, such as bathing sites, they shall be entitled to the compensation provided for in this Title. In view of the uneven financial effects exposed, it expressed the view that the content which was intended to be regulated by this proposal makes sense to regulate at the same time as the amendment to the legislation governing compensation for the use of building land. Consequently, it proposed to stop the process of adopting this proposal and, at the same time, to foresee a comprehensive regulation of the problem in question in the coming year. The Law-Legal Service has examined the law in terms of its compliance. In the opinion of this service, consideration should be given to the regulation of all such issues of water concessions in the Water Act. The Council of State has also addressed this proposal of law and does not support it. Following the introductory arguments, the position of the representative of the applicant was taken into account, namely, the Minister, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 128, that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In the short discussion, a single support was expressed for all parliamentary groups to the proposed decision, and in particular the expressed expectation that they will always be involved in the preparation of legislation affecting their rights and competences, and in particular in their financing. The Committee, with 15 votes in favour and no objection, decided that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment was not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u277	In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the representative of the government as the proposer of the bill, and this is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and the Magi. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u278	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The Environmental Protection Act provides for different concessions and concessions for natural goods at general level, and for individual natural goods concessions are specifically regulated by special laws, as is the case with the use of water, where it is adopted or in force by the Water Act. Despite special legislation, the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act have in fact been applied in the award of concessions for water use in the past and, on the basis of this legislation, the shares of concessions have been allocated to municipalities. Such practice is not legally appropriate, nor is it in accordance with Article 9 of Directive 2000/60 of the European Community, since the purpose of the use of funds is not guaranteed. Concessions should be made to the Water Fund at full altitude, and significant concessions are thus flowing into the integrated budgets of the municipalities. The proposed amendment to the Law on Environmental Protection-1H was intended to regulate the legal situation in order to ensure the purpose of spending resources in order to ensure the implementation of European water legislation in order to provide funds for the implementation of water management tasks from the Water Fund and thus to ensure systematic financing of flood protection in the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on Environmental Protection-1H is included in the financial legislation package and therefore it was also dealt with in accordance with procedural rules for the adoption of financial legislation. Given that concessions are granted where natural age allows the use of water for a specific purpose or where there is an economic initiative for individual use, individual concessions are concentrated on individually rounded areas. It states that concession shares are paid to different municipalities at different heights. Individual congregations were able to receive very different amounts, from about €1.5 million, and some from just 3 euros. Most municipalities do not receive funds from this title due to local water use conditions. And the proposed novels of the Environmental Protection Act-1H could have very different financial effects on individual municipalities, especially taking into account the other budgets of municipalities or their size. On the other hand, municipalities are not entitled to charge compensation for the use of building land in individual cases, as in the case of hydropower plants, but are entitled to such compensation in the case of other economic uses such as bathing sites. In view of these reasons, it was decided to exempt the proposal from further consideration. In view of these uneven financial effects, the content intended to be regulated by the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act-1H should be regulated in the context of amending the legislation governing compensation for the use of building land. However, the regulation of the problem in question is necessary and a new law will be prepared in the coming year following a regular procedure which will fully regulate the area of concessions, while also regulating the verification of legislation in terms of eligibility for compensation for the use of betting land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u279	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre supports the Government's decision to withdraw the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act from the legislative procedure. The objectives pursued by the amendment of the law are to increase the resources of the Water Fund, for the purposes of water regulation and flood management, to be legitimate and necessary and supported by the SMC Group of Members. Almost every year, floods now require the regulation of watercourses for the purpose of high water regulation. All these interventions are linked to substantial financial resources. However, any additional source of financial resources with a view to ensuring flood security must be coordinated and agreed with all stakeholders likely to be affected by the accumulation of additional financial resources. It follows from the proposal of the law that the Water Fund is provided as an additional source of funding for the concession, or part of the concession payment, which is owned by the municipalities under Article 164 of the Environmental Protection Act. The adoption of the law would therefore have direct financial implications for the municipalities receiving such funds, with these receipts being an important part of their budget in some smaller municipalities. The law under consideration is a budget law that is dealt with under an urgent procedure, and it is this necessary method of enacting legislation that has limited the necessary public debate on the content of the law, which mainly took place only after the introduction of the law into the national assembly procedure, due to short-term time limits. In the SMC Party, we therefore welcome the decision of the Government or the Ministry of the Environment and Space, which has listened to concerns about the new arrangement, but also to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which in its opinion has pointed out that it would be more appropriate, in its view, to make the matter governed by the Environmental Protection Act more formal in the Water Act. At the meeting of the home labour body, the Government or the Minister of Environment and Space explained at the examination of the law that the Ministry would consult all stakeholders at the future law, which would provide more financial resources in the Water Fund, including, if necessary, the municipalities, taking into account the opinion of the ZPS. In view of the above, the SMC Group will conclude that the proposal for a law supplementing the Environmental Protection Act is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u281	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u282	Thank you, President, for your word. The previous law and this law are typical proof of how politics in the country should not be managed. Ministry against the Ministry, coalition party against coalition party, coalition MPs against government. Wrong world. The legal basis for the allocation of water rights is laid down by the Water Act and the concession is governed by the Environmental Protection Act. This provision in Article 164, in force, provides that the payment for the management, use and exploitation of natural goods on the basis of a concession shall be made between the State and the municipality, and shall be specified more precisely in the concession acts. With the amendment proposed, the payment of the water concession would be fully made to the state budget. The proposed measure is to the detriment of approximately one third of municipalities gravitating to Soča, Drava and Savo, which are entitled to the income referred to in this Title in accordance with the current arrangements. In the view of the SDS Group, this is a completely unreasonable and inappropriate measure, since it deprives a large number of municipalities of an important part of the budget, at a time when the municipalities are one of the most battered entities in the country. The lack of sense of action was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and against the law, both the Community of the Communities and the Association of Municipalities, who are also wondering how the Government, without their consent, can introduce laws that are totally inconsistent. In the SDS, we have also prepared proposals for amendments to the Home Working Committee to delete the articles of the law. In drafting the bill, the government violated the rules because, as it is said, it did not invite representative associations of the congregations. I propose, on behalf of the SDS Group, that the coalition consult the public next time, because at the beginning of the mandate you said how you would consult, and after one year this consultation is only in words, but not in action. In short, we are pleased that the coalition majority, together with the ministry, decided to withdraw the law from the parliamentary procedure. However, I propose to both government representatives and coalition Members that, after the end of one year of governance, they finally win the term of coalition coordination, because too often in this mandate, the coalition rejects the laws it is preparing. This has not happened in previous mandates and we are truly witnessing a new and different policy. Good advice to the coalition: Listen to each other and the work of both you and the National Assembly will be easier. With such attempts, which are fortunately to witness their end, the coalition also confirms the stepmother's attitude towards local communities, where, unfortunately, it has created more problems with this mandate than it has solved them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u283	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u284	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government! Members and Members of the Desus Group in accordance with the debate held on the working body on the proposal for the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, we will not oppose the proposal for a conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. This does not mean that the Desus Group generally does not support the bill. However, it means that we will listen to the majority who expressed disagreement with the content of the law on the part of the parent’s working body. The main reason for this law being opposed by municipalities receiving concessions for such or other use of water is that concessions would no longer be made available to municipal budgets. The Environmental Protection Act in Article 164 provides that payment for the use or use of natural goods shall be divided into national and municipal concessions and the distribution ratio shall be determined by concessionary acts. The revenue of the State shall be made available to the Water Fund as a specific budget item and shall be used exclusively for water management. Concessions are paid in municipalities where water is used for economic purposes – hydroelectric plants. Therefore, individual concessions are paid in individual rounded areas. However, the percentages of concessions paid to individual municipalities are very different. Most municipalities do not receive concessions due to local water use conditions. The fact is that in some cases municipalities, for example when the concession is paid for the use of river water for hydroelectric power plants, these municipalities are not entitled to charge compensation for the use of building land. On the contrary, in the case of water use for other economic purposes, such as bathing sites, the municipalities referred to in this Title are entitled to compensation for the use of building land. For this reason, in the Desus Group we have adopted a decision to support the position of the Ministry of the Environment, which considers that it makes sense to regulate legislation governing compensation for the use of building land at the same time as amending the concession laws. Since the regulation of the issue is therefore necessary, the Minister, who has made great efforts to find an acceptable compromise with the municipalities for both sides, announced that the Ministry will prepare a new law to be tabled in the National Assembly in the coming year following a regular legislative procedure. On conclusion, once again, the Desus Group does not object to the proposal that the draft law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u285	The text is given by the Group of the Social Democrats, Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u286	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We Social Democrats have been opposed to this bill since the beginning, for a simple reason. The existing arrangements on the basis of which the municipalities put major energy projects into space should be followed. There can be no change of such important acts without their consent or without agreement with the municipalities. We therefore welcome the Ministry's decision that the proposal for this law is not suitable for further consideration. In particular, we want this story not to be repeated to us again in the following year, because it is not necessary for the majority of municipalities receiving this concession that this concession is an extremely important segment, for some it can represent even more than 10% of the budgets of these municipalities. It is therefore extremely important that, before such acts are adopted, these are the agreements that were agreed upon at the time of placement; many municipalities would not have accepted them if such concessions were not agreed upon, we respect them. In the event that we feel the need for the matter to be settled, we will otherwise agree together and in accordance with local communities. Thank you so much for a lovely evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u287	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. Why the proposal for a law at the working body meeting was recognised as inappropriate for further use and treatment, it is clear from all the resistance and criticism it has caused. Resistance and criticism mainly come from the municipalities, especially those most affected by the enforcement of the law. We can't just wave our hand here and take resistance and criticism as interesting. The situation is far from simple. The municipalities are actually underfunded and flood safety is actually at risk. The current situation is not satisfactory, but the fact that the implementation of this law would at least partially, so at least in the work concerning the financing of municipalities, this situation would even worsen. This is not necessarily an argument against this law if the government arranges for the financing of municipalities differently, but this is another fact that it has not done so. There is something else that needs to be highlighted. In the Group of Members, the United Left is, in principle, supporting the main solution envisaged in the bill. In view of the fact that all inflows from concessions that have so far expired into municipal budgets will now flow into the dedicated Water Fund and will be used for the construction and maintenance of water infrastructure, the purchase of water and coastal land and, inter alia, for inter- and regional water-management projects. At the same time, however, we insist that the legislative proposals are only adopted by this National Assembly when they are predestined and at least aligned with the parts of the society concerned. This government, as well as other governments before it, constantly violates this simple and self-evident rule, including this bill. Whether the solutions envisaged by a proposal are still so imaginative, the coalition should recognize this in a broad public debate and therefore the urgency of the procedure under which this law was dealt with is totally inappropriate. However, I mentioned the second major problem of this law at the outset. The exploitation of water resources, the regulation of water concessions, flood safety and other related issues, including the financing of municipalities, constitute a complex and important issue to be considered and addressed in an integrated manner. According to the very problem of under-financing, the government has not done so either. Again. In the United Left, we believe that the main solution to the bill goes in the right direction, in the direction of public regulation at the highest level, because the issue of water is not only a problem for municipalities with thermal springs for example, but it is a problem for the whole country and all its inhabitants, so we call on the Government to start a broad public debate as soon as possible, which will lead to such a democratic, clear and integrated debate as well as democratic, clear and integrated solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u289	The word is given by the Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of New Slovenia respect the decision of the Government, which has at least once acknowledged that it has tabled a proposal for a law that is neither substantively appropriate nor consistent with local communities, and its purpose was merely to patch up the budget deficit. At this regular session, we have quite a few proposals for laws that we need to adopt following an urgent procedure, because otherwise there could be difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the country. As the Minister of Environment and Space itself, on behalf of the applicant, has proposed a halt to the procedure and has announced a comprehensive regulation of the area of water concessions and the payment of concessions, we see that this is not the case. Only strong responses and opposition from all representative associations of municipalities and opposition Members can we thank that the municipalities will retain the revenues of water concessions. The proposal to supplement the Environmental Protection Act provided that revenue from water concessions would be made available to the Water Fund. This has given this year’s preliminary amendment to the law a revised mandate, which also requires funding. It's logical, but it's not a community account. This is another disproportionate incision in their budgets, namely, municipal ones, totalling around €6 million. For municipalities, this would mean a loss of income, which is now intended to finance their infrastructure projects, and would provide compensation for the exploitation of water resources in their area. In addition, some municipalities, such as Sevnica, Krško, Brežice for the construction of hydroelectric power plants, were seized a large part of the land. However, the Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava and the concession contract already gave them the right to concession. The proposed novel has thus reached out to the already acquired legal rights to work on the water concession in the area of the municipality and has selectively reached into their own financial resources. It is a third of the municipalities gravitating to the Soča, Drava and Savo rivers and are entitled to these revenues under the current regime. The fact is, however, that it is the municipalities in the affected areas that provide planning, construction and management of water infrastructure, especially high-water embankments, reservoirs and so on. A large number of resources per year are allocated to remedying the damage to economic infrastructure caused by unmaintained watercourses. Thus, the revenue from concessions allows municipalities to invest in the protection of the environment, and this task is now being done much better than the state would. In addition to the above-mentioned facts, the local community has not been informed in advance of the proposed amendment of the law, even though it has interfered with their budgets. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing, we have already said this many times these days, including the reduction in the average in 2016 and 2017 and with these municipalities is still taking additional funds. In short, the government wants to take municipalities wherever they can, and this is unacceptable. It was therefore the Government's proposal that the procedure for adopting the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act should be stopped in an emergency procedure. At this point it is the only acceptable and logical solution that we, of course, support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u291	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which the Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The law forms part of the budget package, with which the government wanted to provide an additional EUR 6 million to the municipalities, at the expense of withdrawing the concession fee for water use. As we know, so far concessions have divided water use among the state budget, around 60% of the money collected, and the remaining share among the municipalities where the activity for which the concession is granted is carried out. The concession is awarded for the use of the potential of Drava, Soča, Idrij, Bača and Sava. At the time of placing hydropower plants in the agreed areas, the State has committed itself to part of concessions due to the degradation of the area to the municipalities. For example, when it came to building energy facilities in Sochi, there were very large interventions in space, with many negative impacts, especially during construction. These negative effects also continue in operation. The main interventions were in the municipality of Kanal ob Soča, where all the valley roads were affected, and virtually all citizens had to endure construction. On the basis of the regulation, a concession contract between the Republic of Slovenia and Nova Gorica’s Sočica Power Plants was signed in 2002 for a period of 30 years. I'll point out, in 30 years. In the rule of law, we are all, including the State, obliged to implement the provisions of the Treaties, and I stress that concessions and their distribution are defined in the concession contracts. It is not appropriate at all, and it is also legally disputed that we reach out to this relationship with a single indent of the law. The Environmental Protection Act is being prepared. However, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out that it would be appropriate to amend the Water Act, which regulates the Water Fund, for which additional resources are to be provided. Let me recall, the Water Act was adopted in July, there were some new tasks assigned at the time, but there was no talk that the distribution of concessions would change in any way. Therefore, also in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that, if already, the division of water use concessions should be regulated within the Water Act. We do not agree that revenue for the operation of the water fund must be obtained from concessions. We believe that the current regime, when income is shared by the congregation and the state, is appropriate. Of course, it is important here to highlight the need for a clear division of the tasks of one and the other to be financed by this revenue. In our view, however, the State or the Water Fund should exercise control over the purpose of using these resources. Finally, in this way, a large part of the budget that they have at their disposal is withdrawn from the municipalities. With the adoption of this law, municipalities counting on concession for 2016 would lose this money. In our parliamentary group, we believe that laws that also touch the funding of municipalities, and in this case such a law, must not be adopted by emergency procedure and without the necessary agreement on the municipal side. We therefore call on the government to prepare, in future laws concerning the financing of municipalities, exclusively and exclusively in cooperation with the municipalities. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the withdrawal of the law and agree that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u293	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
