ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs. Ludmila Novak, mag. Bojan Krajnc by 12 noon, Mr Andrej Chuš and Mr Jan Škoberne. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 40. This is on the proposal for a decision on the agreement on the programme of work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2016. In accordance with Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted the 2016 work programme and the financial plan of the Energy Agency to the National Assembly. In order to further explain the Programme, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer – the Acting Director of the Energy Agency, Mrs Duški Godina.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members; representatives of the Government! Allow me to give you a brief presentation of the role of responsibility of the Energy Agency and the tasks ahead in 2016. The Energy Agency is a national regulator which has been operating in the Slovenian space since 2001. Since then, the role, tasks and responsibilities of the Agency have increased significantly. The previous year was 2014 when the third package of European directives on electricity and natural gas markets was transposed into Slovenia's legal space. At that time, the Agency gained greater independence, greater independence and thus a more important role, and the related responsibilities in our area. Since its establishment, two key objectives have been pursued in the performance of its tasks: to ensure cost-effective promotion of the development of secure, reliable and efficient systems for the transmission and distribution of electricity and natural gas, and to achieve the greatest benefit for consumers by ensuring an efficient and competitive market. That objective shall be achieved by the Agency in carrying out its tasks in the area of the adoption of general acts for the exercise of public powers, the issuing of agreement on acts of operators, the regulation of the costs of operators, the setting of networks and the resolution of disputes. Through its experience and findings, the Agency plays an important role in the development of energy legislation. The Agency’s work programme and the Agency’s financial plan for 2016 is as extensive as the Agency’s tasks, so allow me to present only the key aspects and key tasks and areas that the Agency intends to carry out in 2016. During the current year, in 2015, the Agency adopted more than 20 general acts for the exercise of public powers and thus made an important contribution to the development of regulatory arrangements on the electricity and natural gas market. In 2016, however, most of the activities will be devoted to studying the system operating instructions of operators in the field of electricity, natural gas and remote heat, which can only take effect after the prior agreement of the Energy Agency. In this area, at least 60 applications for that agreement are expected. In 2016, the Agency will also start implementing heat price regulation for remote heating for the first time. In this area, we also expect at least 50 applications from energy operators to agree on their starting prices. We will also pay a lot of attention to ensuring security of natural gas supply; we will prepare a new risk assessment and update the preventive action plan and emergency plan. In the area of renewables, we plan, among other tasks, to increase the control of the holders of declarations for production facilities and recipients of state support, as this is an area in which a country and consumers have a lot of money. In 2016, we will also start to fully implement tasks related to ensuring efficient use of energy and monitoring and control of the electricity and natural gas market with a view to ensuring transparency and preventing abuse and market manipulation. I would like to add that every year the Agency prepares a country's umbrella document on the situation in the field of energy, where all relevant data and indicators from this area are collected for our needs and needs of the European Union. We want to act proactively in the Agency, so in 2016 we will also be particularly careful to analyse the situation in all those areas where, with our regular tasks, we see possible deviations or trends that are worthy of wider consideration. In the Agency, we are aware of the exceptional importance of our tasks from the point of view of the country and of the individual customer. We perform them professionally and responsibly to all stakeholders; at the same time, we are not planning to increase costs or additional employment in this programme in comparison with the Work Programme and the 2015 Financial Plan, which means that the costs of electricity and natural gas consumers due to the Agency's operations will not increase in the coming year. Our commitments remain clear for 2016 – responsible, legitimate and effective work for the benefit of all energy market participants. I therefore propose that the National Assembly adopts or approves the Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u3	The work programme and the financial plan were considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the parent working body, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a decision on the agreement to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2016. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 14th session. Ten. 2015 as a parent working body considered the Agency’s Work Programme and Financial Plan for 2016, 30. 9. 2015 The Energy Agency forwarded Article 399 paragraph 5 of the Energy Act to the National Assembly. An explanation for the proposed document and the main emphasis on the operation or tasks of the Energy Agency was given by the acting director of the Agency, Mrs Duška Godina. It pointed out that the Agency expects an increase in the amount of consensus to be given by the Agency to the general acts of the system operators and the market organiser in the coming year. By March, when the transitional period under the Energy Act is over, between 60 and 70 applications for consent to the general acts of economic operators in the energy market and the field of heat supply are expected. In addition, by 1 July 2016, the agency will have to conduct approximately 50 procedures for issuing consents to baseline heat prices for remote heating. It further pointed out that the Agency will carry out a new risk assessment in the field of natural gas security, update the preventive action plan and the emergency plan. They will also monitor the holders of declarations for production facilities and the recipients of support for the production of electricity from renewable sources and high-efficiency cogeneration. In the coming year, the Agency will also carry out adjustments and development of information infrastructure in particular in the area of data acquisition, market monitoring and implementation of the REMIT Regulation, which, due to its involvement in the international exchange of data on the wholesale market, imposes very high information requirements in terms of software and data security. In the field of international activities of the Agency, it highlighted its cooperation with the European Commission and European regulators, in particular with regard to the tasks of establishing a common internal energy market for the European Union, which includes the implementation of uniform network rules for system operators and the co-forming of a market model that will enable the binding objectives of the long-term energy policy to be met. As regards the staffing plan, it was stressed that the Agency does not provide for additional new employment in 2016. With regard to the financial plan, it was pointed out that the Agency’s main source of revenue represented the annual compensation of the natural gas transmission network operator and the system operator of the transmission system. The unit burden set out in this Title remains the same as in 2015 and the amount for the performance of the tasks remains unchanged compared to this year, which means that the operation of the Agency will not impose an additional burden on electricity and natural gas customers. The representative of the Government – State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure pointed out that the Ministry at its starting points had expressed its expectation that in 2016 the Agency would not increase the number of employees and increase the compensation for operators to cover the costs of its work. However, the representative of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the Agency's work programme and financial plan for 2016 and as a positive assessment that the Agency does not provide for changes in the level of compensation for both operators or maintains the share of the price for the use of networks at the current level. In the debate, MEPs and Members welcomed the work programme presented and the financial plan presented and announced support for the decision. In the course of the discussion, the Committee then voted on the next proposal for a decision; namely, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Decision on consent to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy for 2016 of 30. 9. 2015; and this Decision also voted by 11 votes in favour and none against.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president of the National Assembly, good day to you all! The Energy Agency, as the national energy regulator in the energy market, is an important member of the energy law enforcement chain. The new tasks undertaken by the Agency under the Energy Act constitute a comprehensive package of obligations in the preparation and implementation of the general acts for the more efficient functioning of the electricity and natural gas market. By March 2016, until the expiry of the transitional period laid down in the Energy Act, some 70 consents will have to be issued on the general acts of economic public service operators on the energy market and in the field of heat supply. The work will focus on monitoring the implementation of all regulatory frameworks for 2016-2018 adopted by the Agency in 2015. Since the Agency received the consent of the National Assembly in March this year to increase the number of employees, they will not need additional new jobs in 2016. Since the National Assembly on the Agency’s Work Programme and Financial Plan 2015 has not given its consent until March this year, it has not yet concluded its employment contracts with all the new 12 staff members, so part of this year’s tasks will also be transferred to 2016. Since the Agency’s main source of revenue represents the annual compensation of the transmission system operator and the compensation of the system operator — in the first case, Plinovovod, d. o. o.; in the second case, Eles, d. o. o. — is a welcome indication that the Agency does not provide for changes in the level of compensation for both operators. But if we look at the final price paid by the electricity or natural gas customer, we see that actual consumption is much lower. This indicates a disproportionately high proportion of the compulsory duties to be paid by consumers in addition to the actual consumption of energy. In doing so, we continue to point out the meaning of paragraph 5 of the Article 399 of the Energy Act, which requires the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to give its consent to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a complete nonsense, for all comparable institutions are given the consent to such documents primarily by the Government, which as a result also assumes responsibility for the operation and operations. In Novi Slovenija, we will support the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, distinguished Secretary of State, Mrs. Lidija Stebernak, respected by the Director of the Energy Agency, Mrs. Duška Godina! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we assess that the Work Programme and the Agency's Financial Plan for Energy 2016 are adequately prepared. Our decision followed the fact that the Agency is not planning new jobs in 2016, no changes in the level of compensation of the transmission system operator or compensation of the system operator, despite the fact that the government decision on the confirmation of the amount of the Agency’s additional operation was adopted in the year’s price for the use of electricity and gas networks. The implementation of some of the activities of the Agency started later, but will be partially carried out in 2015 and partially carried out in 2016. Additional resources were to be provided to the Energy Agency in this year mainly due to new tasks under the Energy Law Amendment and the transitional period ending in March 2016. The share of the price for the use of natural gas networks is thus not changing and the share of the price for the use of the electricity network remains unchanged. The work programme and the financial plan of the Agency for Energy 2016 shall adopt the tasks to be carried out by the Agency in 2016 in accordance with the prescribed legislation. With the new Energy Law, the Agency is carrying out new tasks in relation to the more efficient functioning of the electricity and natural gas market, such as energy market surveillance, control of the legality of the works of operators, energy activities, ensuring the portability of supply of natural gas, promoting powers in the field of energy efficiency, consumer care and activities related to international obligations at European Union level. In these activities, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre highlights the Agency's efforts to promote efficient use of energy and renewable energy sources. In the field of renewable energy, we support the production of electricity from renewable sources based on hydropower, geothermal energy and wind energy. We are critical of the production of electricity based on photovoltaics and wood biomass, as we have reduced the competitiveness of the wood industry through subsidies for wood burning. In order to subsidise renewable resources, we will spend as much as a billion euros in ten years. Let us not forget that these means to promote renewable energy burden the consumer as well as the state budget. In any case, it would be more prudent to use these funds to invest in hydropower, geothermal energy or wind energy. We support the Agency in its activities to monitor non-rational stimulation of renewable energy sources, to actively address irregularities and irrationality in Slovenian energy and to develop an energy concept, as this has a major impact on the final price of electricity and on the uncontrolled rise in the price of electricity. We expect the Agency to play a proactive role in addressing energy irregularities and in preparing the energy concept of Slovenia. The Work Programme and the Financial Plan also describe efforts to establish an energy union and the conditions for finalising an energy market that will work for the final customers. We support the preparation of projects of common interest, including the development of a methodology for the analysis of common European investments. However, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre fully supports the Agency's business plan for 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u9	The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has the floor; on its behalf, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u10	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The 2016 Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency must be endorsed by the National Assembly on the basis of Article 399 of the Energy Act. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have already been alerted by the adoption of the Energy Act to this anomaly or to the refugees that Members agree with the economic operator for its further business decisions. The proposal to correct this will be tabled again by the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party when the Energy Act is reopened. Today neither the Ministry nor the Government have jurisdiction over the Energy Agency. It was interesting to see the position of the Ministry of Infrastructure on the Committee's Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2016 with two provisions: no new jobs, no increase in the compensation of operators for the financing of the Energy Agency. First of all, the Ministry has no authority over the Agency because of the Energy Act. Secondly, the Energy Act imposes on the Agency a very large number of new tasks that this agency is not yet fully carrying out. And the representatives of the Ministry do not even know clearly what percentage of the tasks the Agency must carry out in the future from this title, of these obligations, from the legal provisions. It sets out some milestones that thus have no jurisdiction over the law; it does not even know the subject and scope of work imposed by the very extensive Energy Law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the Energy Agency's Work Programme is well established, which plan to expand the scope of the works provided by the new Energy Act. We have no comments on the Agency's proposed programme in the future and will not oppose the 2016 Programme of Work of the Energy Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on its behalf Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable V.D. Director of the Energy Agency, Honourable Secretary of State with Fellowship, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. The consideration of this year's Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy went away without the complications that we witnessed last year when Members did not agree with the over-ambitious staffing plan and some over-planned investments. The Agency does not provide for additional new jobs in 2016; however, as regards the financial plan, let me mention that the Agency’s main source of revenue is the annual compensation for the natural gas transmission network operator and the system operator of the transmission system. The unit charge from this title remains the same as in 2015 and remains the same amount for the task performed compared to this year unchanged, which means that the Agency’s operation will not impose an additional burden on customers of electricity and natural gas. Otherwise, the Agency is looking forward to a substantial increase in the volume of work in the following year, mainly on the basis of the Energy Law. For example, the Agency will have to carry out approximately 50 procedures in the field of heat price regulation by 1 July 2016 to agree on baseline heat prices for district heating. By the end of this year, regulators are required to submit applications for consent and the Agency will verify in the process whether the debtors have established a baseline price, in accordance with the applicable methodology act for the development of the heat price for remote heating, and determine the Energy Act already mentioned. The Agency is also awaiting an increased level of consensus to be given to the general acts of system operators and market operators. Between 60 and 70 applications for consent to general acts of operators, economic public services on the energy market and the field of heat supply are expected to expire by March of the transitional period set out in the Energy Act. In the field of natural gas security, the Agency will carry out a new risk assessment and update the preventive action plan and the emergency plan. They will also monitor the holders of declarations for production facilities and the recipients of support for the production of electricity from renewable sources and high-efficiency cogeneration. In the following year, the Agency will also make adjustments and develop information infrastructures, notably in the areas of data acquisition, market monitoring and implementation of the REMIT Regulation, which, due to its involvement in the international exchange of wholesale data, imposes very high information requirements in terms of software and security data. Finally, let me say that in the Desus Group, we are pleased to see the fact that was presented when the programme was considered on the home working body, namely that the Agency does not provide for changes in the level of compensation for both operators or maintains the share of the price for the use of networks at the current level. Members and Members of the Desus Group support the proposal for a conclusion that the National Assembly agrees with the 2016 Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u13	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! On the basis of the provisions of the Energy Act, the Agency’s Work Programme and the Agency’s Financial Plan for 2016 have been drawn up and sent to the National Assembly, in accordance with the provisions of the Act, with a view to giving the Agency its consent. On the home working body, this act was considered and adopted unanimously, the decision to give the National Assembly an agreement on the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy for 2016 of 30. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Social Democrats will support the proposed decision of the parent labour body. The Energy Agency is a national energy regulator that directs and supervises energy operators in the field of electricity, natural gas and remote heating. The Work Programme covers all the tasks the Agency must perform in those areas in 2016; the basis for carrying out the tasks is in Slovenian and European energy legislation. The new Energy Law has given the Agency extensive obligations in the preparation and implementation of general acts aimed at making the electricity and natural gas market more efficient. Some of the commitments have already been implemented in 2015; in 2016, they will be subject to tasks that include ensuring security of supply of natural gas, regulating heat and other energy gases, certifying system operators’ investment plans, monitoring the legality of the work of energy operators, monitoring the energy market and certification of transmission system operators. The Agency also has competence in the field of energy efficiency and customer care. The increased scope of the tasks also relates to international obligations at the level of the European Union. On the Committee, the Agency's representative provided information that, by March, when the transitional period under the Energy Act is over, she expected between 60 and 70 applications for consent to the general acts of economic public service operators in the energy market and in the field of heat supply. In addition, the Agency will have to carry out approximately 50 procedures for issuing approvals to base heat prices by 1 July 2016. She also said that the regulators had to forward applications for consent by the end of this year; the agency would verify in the process whether the debtors had established a starting price in accordance with the applicable methodology act for the development of the district heating heat price and to establish Energy Act 1 (EC-1). The Agency will carry out a new risk assessment in the field of natural gas security and update the preventive action plan and the emergency plan. They will monitor the holders of declarations for production facilities and the recipients of support for the production of electricity from renewable sources and high-efficiency cogeneration. This is just a few points on the tasks that have been put on the committee. As regards the financial and human resources part of this programme, I would point out that the Agency does not have any new employment plans for 2016; however, the 2015 Human Resources Plan will be implemented by the end of the year. Employees are also bound by the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2016, taking into account the public sector salary scale. The Agency’s main source of revenue is the annual compensation of the natural gas transmission network operator and the system operator of the transmission system. The unit burden referred to in this Title remains the same as in 2015 and the amount for carrying out the tasks remains unchanged compared to this year, which means that the operation of the Agency will not impose an additional burden on electricity and natural gas customers. We expect the Social Democrats to do their honours at the 2016 agency of obligations imposed by the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u15	The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable assembly, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, the Joint Left, we respect and support the work of the Agency. The work programme and the Agency's financial plan for next year seem in principle well prepared. However, it is important to be aware that although the Agency is doing its job well, this does not mean that its political orientation is correct. This is not because of the agency as such, but because of the political orientation of this National Assembly or the state of Slovenia. However, we will not punish the agency because we are working wrong or perhaps a little too superficial. We will support the work programme, but it seems imperative that we highlight some of the most important aspects of this document. First time. The Agency will participate in the Regional Group of Central Eastern Europe (CEE), Central Southern Europe (CSE) and South-Eastern Europe, and perhaps also in the Southern Gas Corridor Group – in the development, monitoring and evaluation of a list of projects of common European interest. It will therefore have an opportunity to influence investment in energy infrastructure, which is important at least in terms of energy security and economic efficiency. The size of the Slovenian state or the size of our economy is not in favour of the agency; however, it will be possible for the activity to be the location itself if the routes mentioned go through Slovenian territory. Another time. The Agency is very active in promoting electricity production from renewable energy sources, which has also been reflected in statistics. For example, the share of renewables in total energy consumption was 16% higher in 2013 compared to 2012 due to higher use of such resources and a reduction in total energy consumption. Good. Part of the explanation of the increase in renewable energy shares may also fall to a lower level of economic activity in energy-intensive industries, which is not encouraging, but is the result of such use of renewable energy sources good and beyond the targets we set ourselves in 2010. However, we must not be satisfied with this, and we must set higher targets. Third time, very important. The Agency is a key national element in establishing the EU's so-called common energy market, as you know that it is one of Juncker's key ideas, which could potentially be the most problematic activity. Why? However, such a market would have a short-term positive impact on end-users, particularly in reducing prices with tight competition, but lower margins would also reduce accumulation and investment assets. In the medium term, the dumped prices of major international electricity and gas suppliers could generate at least oligopolies at European level, if not monopolies, which in time would lead to higher prices for end-users as well as smaller investments in energy infrastructure, production and distribution. In particular, given the current situation, security should be an added consideration; in the sense of energy security for Slovenia, if disintegration of the European Union or even major international conflicts occurs. Let us take this document as an opportunity to reflect on those points. We will support the report, as I said. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2016, we will decide on Tuesday, 24 in accordance with the timetable of the meeting. 11. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Romani Community in the Republic of Slovenia, following a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted for consideration by a group of four Members and Members with the first signed mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšek. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Mr Lilliani Kozlovich for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia is the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government at its 13th session 6. 11. 2015 treated as a parent working body. It is a law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček; with a proposal for a short-term hearing. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 35th session. 9. 2015 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. No amendments to the draft law were tabled within the time limit. In its supplementary explanation, the representative said that the main purpose of the law was to resolve the spatial problem and thus to regulate the situation in which the representatives of the Roma community live. Many Roma communities do not have access to sufficient drinking water. The municipalities should therefore, on the basis of international documents, exercise the human rights mentioned above for all the people of the municipality and also for Roma. As a central article of the draft law, Article 5a pointed out, in their view, that it is more appropriate to regulate the State's alternative action if the municipality does not carry out its tasks. The State's replacement action is a measure of extreme nature and is of its own nature temporary and solely for the purpose of ensuring fundamental human rights. The bill also sets out the composition of the Roma Council, which should allow for the effective representation of members of the Roma community. However, since the law was not in line with the target public, especially the Roma themselves, it proposed to the Committee that the proposal for a law should not be considered further. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the proposal does not contain a comparative legal aspect. Under the second indent of the second paragraph, municipalities should provide minimum care, irrespective of the legal status of housing facilities. Such a legal regime, however, is considered to constitute a derogation from existing practice and is unacceptable. Article 5 of the above-mentioned bill should also specify what and to what extent there is a duty to finance on the part of the municipalities themselves and to what extent on the part of the State. The representative of the Office of Nationality said that the Government does not support the bill and that the area of the Roma community should be regulated in accordance with the European legal order in cooperation with the competent ministry, the Government, non-governmental organisations and the Council of the Roma Community in the future. The representatives of the Union of Roma Slovenia, the Union of Roma for Dolenjska and the Forum of Roma Councilors also did not support the proposal because they were not involved in its preparation. However, there are other aspects to which different regulatory arrangements are needed. In the debate that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration, it was pointed out that a consensus between the Government and representatives of the Roma community had been reached on the basis of a more appropriate solution to the Roma problem. Finally, the Committee decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u19	I give the floor to the representative of the proposal for the Magi Act. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Your Honor, everyone, welcome! For the introduction of the new law before us, we have decided in my former Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. The contents of the novel's proposal were partly created before that, in the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, when the Office of Nationality was headed by Secretary of State Tamara Vont. At the time, the bill dealing with the living problems of the Roma community was also harmonised in the long-term process with the Roma community. Unfortunately, however, the government's mandate ended before the amendment could arrive at the National Assembly. Since everything in the area governed by the law has not changed so much since then, we have decided to submit the amendment ourselves. The law we have tabled provides a framework to ensure the conditions for placing Roma settlements in their premises, to regulate them and to improve their living conditions, which should have been done earlier. A large part of the Roma community now lives in settlements and conditions under minimum housing standards. While almost 100% of the Slovenian population has access to drinking water, many Roma communities do not have access to the minimum amount of water. Moreover, the law in force in the field of the regulation of Roma settlements is inconclusive, unclear and incomprehensible. The new Article 5a, which is proposed, therefore regulates the State's replacement action more appropriately in a way that will not reward the municipalities for failing to exercise their original powers in the case of the regulation of Roma settlements. In the process of finalising the proposal, we have also consulted the Ombudsman's office, which also in a report that the National Assembly has considered just recently, gives particular attention to solving the issue of the Romani community. With their help, we have taken a bite into the sour apple of the Council of the Roma Community and its functioning. We are convinced that improvements in the direction of greater and more independent self-government can also be achieved here. Finally, let me stress that the Constitution clearly states that the country is responsible for ensuring human rights for all, including Roma. And despite the fact that the congregations resist the regulation of the Roma problem in every way possible, it is ultimately a responsibility on the ground. The country is the one that is accountable to the European Court of Human Rights, where we found ourselves again a few months ago. We are aware that the proposal needs certain amendments that could be adopted jointly in the hearing process in the National Assembly, but the amendment has already been voted on by the Committee as inappropriate for further consideration. But I cannot forget that I was working on a committee just a while ago where we discussed the amendments to almost all the articles of the proposed government law. We also discussed the Government's Insurance Act, which had almost 300 amendments; and both were suitable for further consideration, so you decided in the coalition. I'm not here to knock on your conscience, but I must say I'm sorry that the government coalition has not gathered enough will and courage to resolve the problem of the Roma communities in our country together. I hope that the Government is aware of its responsibilities and that we will soon get a solution proposal at the table. You certainly have our support in solving this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u21	I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Stanku Baluh, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u22	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia understands the legitimate and legitimate objectives highlighted by the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček mentions and interprets the living situation of the Roma community, which is also closely linked to the realization of fundamental human rights, such as access to safe drinking water and sanitation and access to suitable housing. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also aware of the fact that in practice there have been some shortcomings in the functioning of the Council of the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia, which would make sense to consider the possibilities for different design and composition of this organisation. However, for reasons further presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its written opinion, the proposal cannot be supported. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the above also shows the classification of the preparation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia as a normative part of the 2014 and 2015 programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, the initiatives and discussions on the need to supplement and amend the law in force are not new, since at that time the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality, as the institution of the preparation of the law, has repeatedly begun to prepare a new law or amendment to the law; we started in 2011 already. We held a series of expert discussions, organised public debates, presentations, and prepared a working draft, which the proposaler took as its basis and then complemented it in his own way; however, further inter-sectoral coordination has shown that the proposed amendments and additions to the law have not yet been sufficiently harmonised. It also expressed its concerns about the complexity and complexity of the topic, in particular in relation to the preparation of the amendment and amendment of Article 5 of the current law, as well as the different opinions and differences within the Roma community with regard to Article 5 and Article 10. Therefore, coordination and preparation of the amendment of the law were postponed. In view of the fact that the National Programme of Action for Roma for the period 2010-2015 is currently in force for the preparation of a new Roma integration strategy for the period 2016-2021, which is the priority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia this year, as the strategy is to be adopted by the end of 2015 at the latest, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia in June 2015 was withdrawn from the regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it is planned to re-classify it in the normative part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia programme for 2016. In addition, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, some other provisions and key solutions to the current law need to be carefully considered, which requires more in-depth preparation of the amendments and additions to the law than has been made so far; and the law is therefore needed in terms of experience with its implementation in practice, more comprehensive reforms are needed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal of the law and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. However, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance of regulating open issues and addressing identified shortcomings in the current regulation, taking into account the purposes and reasons of the proposalers for amendments and supplementing the current law in the context of the professional discussion of inter-departmental coordination and coordination with the Roma community, it will itself prepare a proposal for amendments and to supplement the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia, which it intends to include as already said, in its normative programme for the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, on its behalf Mr Dušan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greeting to all in attendance! The legal basis for regulating the situation of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia is Article 65 of the Constitution, which provides that the situation and special rights of the Roma community residing in Slovenia are governed by law. This laid the legal basis for safeguards. A consistent implementation of the constitutional provisions took place with the adoption of the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia in 2007. The Roma Community has been given formal legal status by this Act, which is intended to regulate various areas and at the same time to fulfil the international conventions signed by Slovenia. Slovenia has also become the first country in the European Union to have a Romani Community Act. In recent years since the adoption of the law, its shortcomings have been proven in practice. Some Roma community organisations, some NGOs and the Ombudsman also pointed out the failure to comply with Article 5 and the inadequacy of Article 10 of the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia. From this we can conclude that the law really needs a thorough overhaul. We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia, tabled by Members now by former ZaAB parties, proposing a provision that, in the event of the inactivity of municipalities in the implementation of statutory tasks in the field of the regulation of Roma law, the State should take alternative action. In the event that municipalities do not provide adequate housing conditions for the Roma community, the law provides that the State will assume jurisdiction over the costs of municipalities if the municipal irregularity of the Roma settlement leads to a permanent threat to health or the lives of people or a permanent threat to the environment. Rather, it should be for the so - called discipline of the congregations, which is strongly opposed by the majority of Roma congregations. The new proposal also seeks to amend the composition of the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the members of Sints are to be included as proposed. The Council of the Roma Community, now composed of 21 members, would have a new 19 members and would not have a statutory composition, but would have left the members and the way they were elected to a new statute to be adopted by the Council with a two-thirds majority of all members. The applicant pointed out that the law had already been drawn up in the previous mandate in cooperation with the Ombudsman. It is very interesting – not to say tragic – that the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia has not been involved in the drafting of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia and did not even know about the introduction of the amendment to the legislative procedure. As we know, the Office of Nationality is preparing a strategy in the area of Roma inclusion for the period 2016-2021, followed by a new Law on the Roma Community, which will comprehensively address the shortcomings of existing legislation and address the Roma issue accordingly. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre advocates the active involvement of representatives of the Roma community in the preparation of the new national strategy. It is also essential that the non-response of ministries decreases in the preparation of new programmes. Since the Union of Roma Slovenia is also opposed to the law and, according to the Government's announcement on the drafting of a new law, this proposal cannot be supported. Members of the Modern Centre Party will therefore vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u25	The text is addressed to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We are faced with an interesting dilemma. The law is urgently needed, it has been imposed, against the congregations, against the Roma communities, it is against the Government and we will also oppose the law being suitable for further consideration; it is not. However, one thing must be said in this regard: in 2007 we passed this law – the Law on the Roma Community, the predecessor talked about it. This was during the period of the government of Janez Janša, you forgot to add this because it seems important to me, because even any other law we passed first, between 2004 and 2008. Why is it necessary to change the current law? The current legislation requires the congregations to be the ones responsible for municipal infrastructure, for example, in Romani settlements; this is pure foolishness. Find me in Slovenia a mayor who will separate from the budget a stack of money, lead the water to a Roma settlement, make roads there; because he has signed for the next elections so that the mayor will never again. The law needs to be changed, but it needs to be changed in a way that the country will be the one – not now at municipal costs, as the proponent suggested – who will simply take care of it. In view of the current situation, however, the following should be said if this country allocates 10,000 euros per year for asylum seekers, I stress 10,000 euros per year, this is the data of the Ministry of Finance, for people who are foreigners who have first entered this country, but who do not have the money to lead two kilometres of water pipes and one pipe into a Roma settlement; then something is wrong with the priorities in this country. Roma are certainly people who have lived here for centuries and are our citizens. Our citizens who have lived here for centuries; we do not bring them one water pipe with a pipe at the end. Like in some settlements, I think there's a Frog like that, they go for water in jars to the first cemetery. In winter, of course, this is not possible. All of this is a sign that this law should be amended or rewritten. I want the government to prepare this, as you say, this is supposed to be next year; and I look forward to this to be resolved at last, but in the right way. If you reintroduce a provision to the government that the mayors will have to do, it's the same as writing that these people will never have a road, a plumbing and electricity. It's a guarantee they'll never have one. The parishioners are not the ones who will do this, because we know that they will lose the next election; and they will not do it either. It is therefore necessary to introduce a provision that will speak of the state doing so; and then this will be done. We too will vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration, in order for the Government to prepare a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u27	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u28	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the conclusion that the proposal for a new Law on the Roma Community is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, I would like to point out that in our Group of Members we understand and support the intention of the applicants to regulate the living situation of the Roma community. We cannot and do not wish to deny the proposalers' findings that there have been in practice some shortcomings in the functioning of the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia, which would make sense to consider the possibility of different design and composition of this organisation. Nevertheless, we regret the Government's view in the Group of Members that there is a need for serious reflection on the many provisions and key solutions of the law in force, as regards the more difficult and in-depth drafting of amendments and the addition of the law that has been made so far. Due to the complexity and complexity of the topic, in particular in connection with the preparation of amendments and the addition of Article 5 of the current law relating to the regulation of living conditions, as well as the different opinions and differences within the Roma community regarding the proposed amendments and the addition of Article 5 in force, and in particular Article 10, which further regulates the organisation of the Roma community at national level, it is necessary to take a more informed approach to amending the legislation in force than has been the case in the past. We must not forget that the National Programme of Action for Roma for the period 2010-2015 expires this year, so intensive activities are currently under way to prepare a new strategy for Roma inclusion for the period 2016-2021. This document has been identified by the Government as its priority, as the strategy must be adopted by the end of 2015 at the latest. Since all the Government's efforts are directed towards the preparation of this programme, a proposal for a new Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia was also withdrawn from the Government's normative work programme in June this year. However, the Government plans to reintroduce it into the regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. In the Desus Group, we have listened to the Government's opinion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, because we believe that the government will, in the context of the professional debate, interdepartmental coordination and coordination with the Roma community itself, prepare a qualitative proposal for amendments and supplement the Law on Romani Law in the Republic of Slovenia. However, we expect the proposed amendments to the current law to be prepared with a view to adapting to the actual situation in which members of the Roma community live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u29	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the proposed law is to address the spatial problem of Roma with the desire to regulate the living conditions associated with access to healthy drinking water, municipal care or the entire infrastructure needed for settlements, and to interfere with the composition of the Council of the Roma Community. The problem of ensuring adequate living conditions is mainly addressed in local communities where Roma live. Unfortunately, this is regulated in different ways. We have examples where there is a very large willingness on both sides to regulate not only living conditions. However, we also have areas where this readiness is lower. In view of the various procedures for regulating Roma issues at local level or in the municipalities of Article 5a, the proposers of this novel provided that the Government would take action in these cases. They therefore proposed that the Government should be able to initiate a procedure for the adoption of measures relating to the tasks of the municipalities referred to in Article 5 of this Act. If the municipality did not start implementing measures or carrying out tasks, the State would do so at the expense of the municipality. The Ombudsman also reminds us of the inadequacy of living conditions every year. Unregulatedness or orderliness is also closely linked to the education of children, who need to be motivated and encouraged to attend educational institutions and to complete schooling. Much effort must also be made to integrate children and other adults among the majority population. We are aware that this is a process that does not happen overnight; but it is certainly a measure that will be repaid to all of us in the long run. The Government has drawn up a broad opinion, not only on individual provisions, but also on a general basis. We are aware, however, that the regulation of the Roma issue goes beyond the frameworks of one source. The opinion presents how coordination with stakeholders is taking place in the drafting of the law, including inter-departmental between ministries. The National Programme of Action for Roma for the period 2016-2021 is also urgently needed. The validity of the National Programme for the period 2010-2015 will soon expire. We think that the solution to the Roma problem must be addressed in a comprehensive manner, together with representatives of the Roma community, the local community and also the country. It is a comprehensive project and measures to address the living situation with appropriate infrastructure that must be properly prepared, placed in the space and also provided with adequate resources. We will support the conclusion that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration; we expect a national plan of action for the next five years and a proposal for a law that is said to be in line with the Roma community as well. We hope he sees the light of the world as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u31	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you, President. Hello, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in 2007. Although the need for its amendments has been demonstrated since its adoption, it has not been changed to date. The amendment tabled by the Group of Members and Members does not, however, provide an appropriate solution to the existing problems in this area, but at least offered the opportunity to discuss the proposal and to find out which solutions are acceptable to all parties, and especially to the Roma. In the United Left we welcome any attempt to improve the life of one of Slovenia's most marginalized groups. For years, among other things, the international human rights institutions have been alerting us to their unrestrained position. This did not happen on the committee, which suggests a totally unacceptable relationship between the coalition and marginal groups. In this mandate, the attitude towards the Roma community is at the lowest possible level. We also drew attention to this in the United Left to the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. At the hearing of the Fourth Report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia, for example, a meeting of the parent committee was convened so that representatives of the Roma community from all over Slovenia waited for three days to speak. They had to drive to Ljubljana for three consecutive days to finally give their opinion. And when considering the amendment of the Law on the Roma Community, such an unacceptable relationship has been repeated – instead of discussing the proposal and the proposed solutions that could actually find appropriate initiatives and solutions, the coalition has taken a quick decision that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Such a relationship is by no means appropriate and such a relationship will not be possible to find solutions. The coalition parties have committed themselves in a coalition agreement to taking into account the social situation and specific rights of the Roma community and to consistently implementing the provisions of the Roma Community Act and the Government's National Programme of Action for Roma, and have upgraded them, if necessary and in dialogue with all representative representatives of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia. As a time limit for the adoption of the amendment, however, the Government set itself in May 2016. We fear that the proposed solution will not go in the right direction or at all. In the United Left, we condemn this attitude towards the Roma community and we regret that there has been no debate on the necessary changes to the law at all. In doing so, it is important to point out that, at the moment, the main problem is not in the lack of law, but in its failure to enforce it. As far as this is concerned, the government has certainly done little or nothing to date. In the United Left, we will not oppose the proposal, as the proposed solutions are opposed by the professional and interested public, especially the Roma. However, we believe that any attempt to solve this problem is better than silence. The law offers some solutions, but unfortunately not enough, perhaps even some wrong ones. An integrated approach is needed; we expect the Government to begin solving this problem without delay and to fulfil the promises it has made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u33	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u34	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The existing Law on the Roma Community, adopted in 2007, was the first regulation to fully regulate the situation and rights of Roma and Roma communities in Slovenia. The legislative text was in line with the representatives of the Roma community. And the Roma community, or at least most of their associations, today recognises that since 2007, when the area of the Roma community has been regulated, there has been great progress in integrating Roma into local environments and in achieving the integration of Roma into public and political life. Here we stress that we are facing markedly different successes in regulating their rights in various parts of the Republic of Slovenia. In Prekmurje, the interaction of Roma with the local population is largely non-problem, while in Dolenjska, there are still tensions in this area. The issue of living conditions in Roma settlements and the provision of basic water and electricity is also an issue. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are convinced that the existing legal basis for regulating the Roma problem is basically appropriate. Of course, there have been certain shortcomings in the implementation of the law, which will have to be addressed in the future, but with due thought and prior coordination with the representatives of the Roma community. We are convinced that more needs to be done in implementing the existing law than amending the law. Of course, sufficient financial resources are also needed for these purposes, and this is where more and more and also the most stuck. The Roma Union also draws attention to insufficient resources to address the Roma problem in its opinion on this law. The fact is, every year, too little money is allocated to this area in the state budget. The extension of the bulk of this burden to the costs of local communities, as proposed in the proposed amendment proposal and the addition of this law, is unacceptable in the existing Community funding system. The municipalities are already facing great difficulties in financing them. The state and legislation impose an increasing burden on them; and resources for the implementation of statutory tasks – these are medium-sized funds – are constantly falling. This additional burden of the municipality in the existing funding system would by no means be able to do so. We see potential for additional funding in New Slovenia in better drawing on European funds, especially in the field of education and culture, as well as in the area of social entrepreneurship, which is one of the possibilities for increasing the employment rate of Roma. Of course, for these purposes, it is also necessary to provide a certain amount of own resources, which individual Roma organisations, associations and communities, which are numerous and dispersed, do not have enough, at least not for larger projects. The possibilities will have to be sought by Roma organisations in connection and, above all, in concert. Members of the New Slovenia Group support all efforts to resolve the Roma problem, but in a way that will take account of the interests of all stakeholders, this is representatives of Roma communities, local communities and competent state institutions from various fields, such as education, culture, environment, employment, social and so on; the proposal under consideration does not address the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is for these reasons that we will support in New Slovenia the proposal to conclude that the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the bill is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Tuesday, 24 in accordance with the timetable of the meeting. 11. 2015 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 39. This is on the proposal for a resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u36	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and all present! The National Housing Programme is a document that creates an active housing policy by which the State contributes to the achievement of the objectives set out in its development, spatial and social programmes and programmes to regulate the situation in the housing sector; and to ensure long-term quality of living for all residents. It is an integral document that brings a new approach to solving housing problems, a document that responds to the actual situation in the area of housing care, at the same time it is a document of an operational nature that provides conditions for improving the situation in the resolution of the housing problem and is a document that specifically focuses on ensuring the quality of living of vulnerable population groups. The national housing programme pursues four important long-term housing policy objectives: balanced housing supply, easier access to housing, quality and functionality of housing, and greater housing mobility. Special attention The National Housing Programme aims to create conditions to ensure the quality of stay for the different target population groups; with emphasis on two specific groups, these are young and older. In order to achieve the objectives, a project programme will be implemented in the period up to 2020 to ensure equal treatment of residents in the resolution of housing problems, while at the same time focusing on data regulation and transparency and the involvement of external investors in the provision of housing. The programme is divided into four priority clusters: activation of the existing housing fund, increased access to housing for more vulnerable groups, renovation of the housing fund and construction of new housing where the need is greatest. For long-term objectives to be achieved and housing policy to be implemented, the Housing Policy Council established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take care of them. The Ministry of Environment and Space will lead, prepare sectoral legislation and coordinate other resources, in particular social, space, economic development and finance sectors, as the carrier of the implementation of housing policy. The National Housing Policy will be the main contractor of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Local communities and other stakeholders, such as non-governmental organisations and various associations, will play an important role in providing sufficient quantities of municipally equipped land for construction, in particular public rental apartments, notably in the search for and introduction of good practices for improving housing, especially in monitoring migration and living practices. A monitoring system led by the Ministry of Environment and Space will be established to assess the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures and to determine the achievement of the objectives set out in the National Housing Programme and will comprise two separate sets. The first set is to monitor the implementation of the activities of the National Housing Programme, where we will also assess the effectiveness of the projects. The second is monitoring the effects, measures and objectives of housing policy. Therefore, a report will also be prepared separately for both sets to be transmitted to the Government for admission. The national housing programme is a roof document based on a constitutional provision that creates opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing. This is also the basis for defining the long-term objectives in the programme and the individual measures needed to achieve them. This will create conditions for successful economic growth, as adequate housing that meets the needs of the population supports development and reduces transport and consequently releases. This ensures equal opportunities for all, increases social security and eliminates poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u37	The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u38	Dear President, Dr. Milan Brglez, distinguished Secretary of State, Mrs. Lidija Stebernak, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome to all! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 14th session. Ten. In 2015, the draft resolution on the national housing programme 2015-2025 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration was considered by the working body. In addition to the explanation of the motion for a resolution, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, Lidija Stebernak, defined the motion for a resolution as a document that establishes an active housing policy, by which the State contributes to achieving the objectives of the established development, spatial and social programmes, to regulating the housing situation and to ensuring long-term quality of living for all. It is an integral document that responds to the actual situation in the area of housing; it is a document of an operational nature that provides conditions for improving the situation in the area of housing. The motion for a resolution follows four important long-term objectives: a balanced supply of suitable housing, easier access to housing, quality and functionality of housing, and greater housing mobility. Particular attention is paid to creating conditions to ensure the quality of stay for the different target population groups, giving particular emphasis to the two specific groups. They're young and older. In order to achieve the objectives, a project programme will be implemented in the period up to 2020 aimed at data regulation and transparency and the involvement of external investors in the provision of housing. The programmes will be divided into four priority clusters: activation of the existing housing fund, increased access to housing for more vulnerable groups, renovation of the housing fund and construction of housing where the need is greatest. Within these projects, individual sub-projects will also be implemented, such as the renovation of housing legislation, which will increase the security of the rental relationship; the implementation of targeted financial measures that will encourage the rental of housing; and the establishment of a rental management service. The gradual introduction of a new lease policy will improve and increase the range of possible solutions to address the housing problem of young and older people and will also provide dedicated housing units for people with special needs. The motion for a resolution also highlighted the provision of system-wide financing for energy renovation of residential buildings, functional renovation of one-bedroom buildings and comprehensive renovation of neighbourhoods. The representative of the legislative and legal service, Katarina Kralj, pointed out that a few minor comments were made to the motion for a resolution or to individual chapters, which were fully taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, stressed that the Commission had considered the motion for a resolution together with an interest group of local interests supporting the motion for a resolution. He pointed out that the state councillors had a positive assessment of the procedure for preparing a motion for a resolution involving a number of stakeholders in the preliminary consultation, which had already expired at the end of September 2014. In particular, he stressed that, in the context of the preliminary consultation, the Commission had considered the motion for a resolution and had made some remarks or comments that the applicant had taken into account in the next preparation of the document. Some discussers expressed concerns about the relevance of certain proposed solutions and the feasibility of the objectives set out in the motion for a resolution. In this context, the amendments proposed by the Joint Left Group proposed to supplement or replace certain solutions. Several substantive questions were also raised, which were answered by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space Lidija Stebernak and the Director of the Housing Fund mag. Ritomir Remec. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Chapters 1, 4 and 5 and to the new Chapter 5a of the Modern Centre, Desus and SD Group; it did not accept the amendments of the Joint Left Group. The Committee then voted on and adopted all the chapters of the motion for a resolution together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u39	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the home committee for infrastructure, environment and space, the representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space presented the Government’s position on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. It presented four priorities: activation of the existing housing fund, access to housing for more vulnerable groups, renovation of the housing fund and construction of new dwellings. You could say - well written. At the same time, this resolution also adopted a budget for the next two years. Not a fraction of the funds or any measure to follow the proposed priorities of the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. On this basis, we can conclude that the government will deal specifically with this issue after 2017. Therefore, the achievement of the objectives set out in this Resolution of the Housing Programme is under great question. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the housing problem in Slovenia is pressing and that it needs to be addressed with an immediate approach. In the entire residential area, order must first be introduced with good records and good grounds; greater security of tenants and also of lessors; the possibility of a gradual long-term buy-in with rent; and a record of rented apartments should be regulated by initiating incentives for owners to rent these apartments. Various target groups need to be provided with apartments of different types and with a systemic approach to ensure the construction of new apartments, but not on the shoulders and with the burden of local communities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the Resolution on the National Housing Programme. In particular, we note the timely realization of the objectives set by this programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u41	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Desus Group, we are pleased that on the agenda of the National Assembly there is a motion for a resolution on the national housing programme 2015-2025, as we have already committed ourselves to a coalition contract to prepare a new national housing programme that will be able to respond to the current needs for housing for individual housing categories, especially young, young families, older people and households with incomes under a certain price. It follows from the constitutional provision that the state is the one that creates the possibility that citizens can get a suitable place to live. This is a document that responds to the actual housing situation. In particular, it focuses on ensuring the quality of stay of vulnerable groups, taking into account their specific needs. For the Desus Group, among other things, it is important that the document also focuses attention on measures aimed at the older part of the population. The fact is that the population in Slovenia is rapidly ageing. The proportion of people over 65 years of age exceeded 17% in 2013, with an increase in the proportion of people over 80 years of age. According to the latest figures of the European Commission, the proportion of people over 65 in Slovenia will increase to 25% by 2030. In the design of housing policy, account must be taken of the fact that the living needs of older populations are specific and related to their health and social situation. Experience has shown that older ones themselves have more difficulty covering housing costs and need adjusted housing. According to data, the risk of poverty is particularly exposed to older people, especially women living in single-member households. The document that we are considering goes in the right direction, because it is because of their specificity that older people are provided with more housing in suitable locations and better opportunities for other forms of cohabitation. As one of the more appropriate solutions to address the housing poverty of older people, it is to promote the coexistence of older people in larger or group households. The involvement of older people in a wider society will be ensured through the planning of suitable dwellings in mixed neighbourhoods, which will contribute to better quality of stay and social inclusion. Members and Members of the Desus Group also support the fact that young people and people with special needs are not overlooked among the urgent measures to increase access to housing for vulnerable groups. In the Desus Group, we are aware that housing policy is a comprehensive policy that requires the support of the whole government and the responsibility of all the resources, so we expect all the competent authorities to pursue the envisaged objectives and measures in the area of housing issues of the most vulnerable groups. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u43	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž German, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u44	Honourable President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! A housing policy that wants to be successful and wants to achieve the long-term objectives of the community must be a comprehensive policy that works in the role of promoting and supporting economic development and the development of the whole society in terms of preserving the population and ensuring a quality living environment for all. It is therefore very important that the country has an innovative and modern national housing programme that allows for the placement of solutions that not only follow traditional mass-building approaches but are based on the deliberate use of the existing mass of the housing fund and its restructuring; let it go through strengthening the rental market, promoting housing cooperatives or through energy partnerships. The programme presented by the Government is a product of a broad public debate and is, as such, based on a comprehensive analysis of the current situation and housing problems and responds to it with a sustainable and moderate approach. As a strategic document, it gives an ideal typical view of development and is comparable to those of the most developed countries. This does not mean that the programme is an established housing policy; however, it means that we have clearly drawn up the mechanisms and visions that must be applied to reality through the provision of financial support and administrative support. The latter will be more demanding than the preparation of the programme itself. However, we have reason for optimism, as the proposaler has already proposed the first concrete implementation plans and pilot projects, which shows that these are not only words on paper, but also measures in cross-cutting implementation. The objective of the housing programme shall include the application of the unoccupied housing fund through tight tax measures and the establishment of a public rental management service to facilitate the renter's surrender and management process. The National Housing Programme wants to ensure the willingness of owners to increase the level of housing delivery while at the same time increasing the security of the renting situation by certain legislative changes. The National Housing Programme envisages large-scale construction of new dwellings and intends to invest primarily in the quality of living of more vulnerable groups, such as young, older, people with special needs and social disabilities; which we are particularly supportive of and pleased that the Government has recognized the need for special treatment of these groups. In view of the programme, it can be expected that the country will provide for young people with accommodation units for cohabitation; for the older population, there are several supply units in the plan, a programme for the accommodation of older people and a programme for the state purchase of their dwellings in exchange for a lifetime pension. As we assess that this is a modern housing programme, which is largely in line with the Social Democrats programme, which we have already defined in 2008, we will support in the Social Democrats' Group a motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u45	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. When I listened to the presentations on the positions of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, I got the feeling that we were not watching and reading the same document on the National Housing Programme. We cannot support this in the United Left Group, and it is totally unacceptable for us. This is particularly true because for six years the country has been without a valid resolution on housing policy, and in view of the long-term preparation of this document, it would expect a product that would eventually be at a much higher level of coordination and quality. This, however, has given us something that is quite similar to the previous resolution, including its problems. That is why we can expect this resolution to have similar effects, meaning no or even negative effects. If I present two key reasons why we expect this to be true. To begin with, we can find that the motion for a resolution at the points of the objectives and measures is not harmonised with itself. The objectives set by, for example, the promotion of rent and functional and ecological renovation of buildings are good, but the measures that follow these objectives do not really follow them. We properly recognize ownership problems, but the rent is understood only as a transitional period for young people or as an option for older ones when they can no longer care for their own apartment. On the other hand, we have measures that are most developed; well, these measures are linked to the promotion of ownership, while lease measures are completely incomplete. It is therefore not clear why, despite the vision of the larger and better rental sector, the motion for a resolution does not foresee how it will achieve this objective. However, where such proposals are made, such a case is a public hire agency, but they are very inconvenient, making them completely inoperable. Moreover, this document does not go through a complete and complete vision. In particular, it is not developmental because it does not foresee how housing issues should be pursued and resolved in the future. What it does is that it only partially lists the problems and possibly some other related measures, but not always, and it only makes them articulately linked to ecology, inequality, spatial planning exclusion and so on. It is also important not to address the fundamental spatial problem we are facing in Slovenia, this is a scattered construction. In short, we are dealing with an extremely poor document, without an integrated vision or any operationalized objectives. In fact, as such, there is more to desire than anything else. Members and Members, especially representatives of the ruling coalition, in view of the time available for the preparation of this document, and in view of all the inhabitants of this country, especially the youth who are not most concerned, I would like to know who will take responsibility for the key document of the Slovenian state housing policy being so very uncoordinated and so poorly prepared as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u48	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! When we read the motion for a resolution on the national housing programme for the next ten years, it is very good to hear what the state will do for young, older and particularly vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens. At first glance, the proposal seems very attractive, but it takes many years to realize it. Indeed, we must not forget this; it is a resolution, a government pilot project to stabilise the housing situation. The resolution itself does not say much in itself; it is only a matter of listing some solutions with lax moves for their concreteisation. The activation of the existing housing fund, the construction of new rental apartments in city centres, the construction of residential communities for young people, the provision of favourable rental apartments for young people and young families up to a certain age, as well as the rental with a later purchase and shared ownership in the form of a so-called public-private partnership today. Ladies and gentlemen, all these projects depend on the most important assumption, and this is the funding from the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which is to take care of public rentals in the public service from now on. We cannot deny that the motion for resolutions brings positive measures, by no means, but they are long-term and dependant on a number of preconditions. Special group are young people, whom we like to say the world stands on them and is our future and our mirror. What does this resolution actually bring to them? Above all, the promise that in the future they will make it easier for them to get to a rental apartment or maybe get lucky and be able to coexist in housing communities for young people with lower rents and have the opportunity to buy a place later. The fact is that young people already have all these options today, but of course many find it difficult to reach, even if we consider that today's generation is almost not given the opportunity to work if they are very lucky, they can conclude a contract of employment for a certain period of time or they are doing a leisure job. The logical consequence of this fact is that they cannot obtain loans for the purchase of apartments and the rents are extremely high. Their future revolves around in a vicious circle and seems to be becoming one of the more vulnerable groups in our society, that is, young people. Indeed, the government foresees the activation of the existing housing fund and in Novi Slovenija we are confident that we should give this step an absolute advantage. The figures are eloquent, of the total of 434 residences of various ministries and the government’s housing fund, 219 are for rent this year. Why not get them as a priority for young people, of course under certain conditions? While these are work apartments designed to address the housing needs of public officials and civil servants, this does not mean that they can be empty or unoccupied for a long time. If the State urgently needs them, then as a good host it should also give them up in accordance with its human resources policy. In the absence of such a need, however, it should transfer them to the housing fund as a vehicle for the implementation of the national housing policy. For we know that many of these apartments are in poor condition because they are unoccupied and uncontained. Even today, these apartments could serve their purpose if it were, of course, one of the priorities or commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, as regards the resolution of this problem in the older population, Christian Democrats note that the envisaged construction of the housing community is not at all appropriate, including the possibility of buying an apartment with a life pension and cohabiting in larger or group households is a measure that will not bring the desired solutions, at least not for a shorter period of time. In New Slovenia, we are confident that the envisaged measures in the area of housing will not help to fulfil Slovenia's commitment to deinstitutionalisation by 2020 and move towards a more friendly form of assistance to various vulnerable groups of citizens. Surely all these people, according to the figures of around 20,000, will not be able to return from the public institutions to the local home environment after five years. In Novi Slovenija we will support the resolution despite the awareness and doubts that the Government will not implement all the forecasts within a five-year period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have been waiting for a resolution on the national housing programme for too long, since the last national housing programme covered the period 2000 to 2009. So since 2010, we have been waiting for a strategic document that will finally map out the direction that we will be following as a country in a troubled residential area. The problems we have in this area have only deepened in the years when this strategy was not in place, both on the housing supply side and on the demand side. So if we can be satisfied that we have finally received a strategic document, we cannot possibly be equally satisfied with its content. For years, it has been noted that the rental market has been operating in a way that is neither optimal for the lessors nor for the lessors, nor for the State. Although the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has also focused on the development of rental apartments in recent years, the main tasks remain with local housing funds. The latter support different groups of tenants, from young, young families, older and socially disadvantaged citizens by providing rental apartments with non-profit rent. In urban centres, there is a large shortage of non-profit rental apartments that will successfully meet the needs that the long-term economic crisis will continue to increase. If you remember, you recently refused a solution in the National Assembly that actively addressed this particular problem. At that time, you said that the law was not suitable for further consideration and that you did not allow discussions on the committee responsible. The resolution before us today recognizes these problems, particularly the problem of young and older citizens. While it is not clear how the objectives of the resolution will be achieved and, above all, where we will obtain financial resources, it is not clear. The resolution reads well, but time will likely show that we will not move very far from reading. The next chapter, which disturbed us quite a bit, is a chapter of rent. We believe that non-profit rents are the best remedies, even when we are talking about socially disadvantaged, unemployed and young people who, if they are already working, work in the service occasionally as prefects or through their own esperies. We are confident that the so-called housing allowance will not prove to be the most deliberate measure and that this will ultimately cause more problems and also the pressure of those who are already pushed to the brink of society. We will not support this resolution because of everything that has been said. We will not support it because we do not think it will actually achieve the goals it is specifically promoting. And we will not support it because we believe that the apartment allowance will not be an appropriate substitute for today's well-known non-profit rentals. Nor will we oppose the proposal, and we certainly expect the Government to make progress in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u52	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Madam Secretary of State! The National Housing Programme is a document of operational nature and a document setting out the country's long-term political orientation for the implementation of Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the State creates opportunities for citizens to obtain adequate housing. As such, it must create an environment that ensures an improvement in the situation of housing problems for residents, with a focus on ensuring the quality of living for vulnerable groups. Today we are in a situation where there is a shortage of rental apartments that would allow vulnerable groups to solve the housing problem, when we have an old housing fund that does not meet energy standards, where housing is lacking in locations where the needs are greatest, and when there is no interest in investing in housing in the public interest. As envisaged in the resolution on the national housing programme, which we are adopting, selected housing supply stabilisation projects will be implemented over a period of five years, the existing housing fund will be activated, will make housing for vulnerable groups more accessible, will promote the renovation of the housing fund and the construction of housing where the need is greatest. These measures will primarily follow the creation of conditions to ensure the quality of stay of two specific groups, young and older. For young people, young families will be encouraged to rent and the measures envisaged for this purpose relate to increasing the availability of the existing rental housing fund and the provision of public rental apartments in larger employment centres in the event of new construction. For the elderly, the national housing programme focuses on solving the living problem in a way that allows for quality health and other care within protected or sheltered housing, while providing opportunities for inclusion in society and mutual assistance. Activities will also focus on ensuring a better quality of living in their own apartment, on energy renovation of buildings and renovation of dwellings in terms of functional renovation and adaptation to the needs of the elderly. The resolution on the national housing programme, as assessed by the SMC Group, contains all the necessary elements of housing development, strategic objectives, programmes and measures for the implementation, action programmes and indicators necessary to monitor their achievement and measure their objectives. The success of the implementation of the measures will be verified within the framework of the monitoring system of the national housing programme for the preparation of the annual reports on the implementation of the activities set out in the Action Plan, the implementation of the projects for 2015 to 2025, which, as assessed by the SMC Group, represents an appropriate response to the existing actual situation in this area, constitutes all the necessary elements and measures to control the implementation of the resolution itself, which will lead to the support of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting forward the fourth chapter and the three amendments of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I have to say that at the beginning I almost needed insulin in these presentations, how great the program was, because it would almost be sugary to get everything that was said. However, there was some reason that they also said their constructive criticism and, above all, pointed out what this program really is. I do not know if the coalition and the Government realizes that in fact two years in this Slovenian space will be nothing. Nothing at all. For two years nothing, we see this from the 2016 and 2017 budgets, which we have adopted, where there is not a single euro planned for what the national programme is talking about. At the same time, if we are reading an interview with the new director of the Republic Housing Fund – those who have read it, you can see that he has made it very clear that he will not do anything for the next two years with this national programme, but will only deal with the past, with censuses, records, lands, lawsuits, deal with old matters and so on. I don't know what you're going to say at the end of your term, what you've done with housing policy. Nothing at all! And that's all. But it is true that we have before us a program that reads fantastically, has real data, but has one problem: in the end, it has a certain table as some kind of action plan that says nothing will happen now. And nothing again. I do not know if we are aware, in the Slovenian space we have set out to solve the housing problem of 0.02 sales of funds, which in Europe means that we are in the last place, only Greece is worse than we are. But this does not apply to this government, this applies to all governments; it has been so since 1990. And we come up with a new program where we say we don't do anything. Therefore, I am appalled at these thanks, what will happen and what we will do. Only one measure, which is listed and which is directly funny. They would offer an income to older people to give their own apartment to the housing stock and they could stay in until death, and after death it would be the property of the Republic Housing Fund — very simple to say. They've been doing this for five years in Ljubljana. Do you know how many have decided to make such a decision? Only five. Only five! If we add up the next 5 years, and if I take a proportionally entire Slovenian space, 20 such cases could happen in the entire Slovenian space, which is very funny. These aren't measures! However, we have a problem: the housing programme does not solve the basic question of whether the Republic of Slovenia will solve the housing problem or whether it is still a question for the next 20 years of Slovenians and Slovenes – find yourself, as you know, and know. It is simply a simple question of your grandparents, your heritage, your options in life and the happiness you will have to solve your housing issue. It is not aware of the basic question, but this is a question that really answers the following. Everyone would like to have economic growth, but, you know, my dears, how will you have economic growth if you don't solve the underlying problem, which is that we give people, young people's apartment, we give non-profit rents, that's the basic purpose. Of course, we simply do not foresee non-profit rents in this housing programme because we do not even have a housing fund, because it is a network of interwoven systems, because we should start at the beginning and not at the end. We went, of course, as a society that likes to write goals and very little to do in achieving these goals. [[…]] Where am I gonna go? We will come at a time and a time when no one will believe us anymore. While this document is a document, I will say once again what can be commended by those who deal with housing issues, but more than that; except that we have a national programme, we cannot really commend ourselves in the country. You also know this in the Ministry and the proponents, so you always look at the heads that are down when I talk about this issue. You are well aware of this, but you simply will not solve the problem. You've postponed it again for five years or even more ten years. The new director, however, has said everything, that is, the new national coordinator, who will lead the issue of housing policy. I wonder how the congregations will react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In the United Left we have tabled amendments to chapter four because this is the only chapter that has yet to be opened. That is to say, we have been able to amend this, but the fact that the whole proposal is very problematic and in its own way also inadequate and should be fully amended, if that were possible – what we also did on the working body, but of course there was no obedience to these amendments. These amendments, which we have tabled today, or for today's treatment, touch on issues such as the sharing of costs in favour of the lessor, by dividing insurance costs in the event of possible forced evictions, encouraging housing owners to be granted subsidies — that is, subsidised by tenants — under-emphasis on functional renovations of buildings, unsatisfactory measures to promote alternative solutions to housing issues such as cooperatives and so on. These are some of the last attempts to improve this proposal that we still have. I will not go here now into the details of what all these amendments mean, because our explanations are eloquent enough, but I would stress another key problem that this proposal has, and this is that the lease document still sees as just a transitional solution to the ownership solution of the housing issue. The resolution clearly expresses the need to increase the tenancy fund and, in part, the need to establish mechanisms to reverse the relationship between ownership and rent, but nevertheless ownership remains in this document in great advantage, it is true that this ownership logic, which we strongly encourage in Slovenia, does not solve how this relationship could be fixed and even better started to manage rental. First of all, it is assumed that the rental market is intended primarily for young people and has a transitional character. This is, of course, purely from the everyday experience of a floscule, if I may say so. The basic assumption of the document is ownership as the most desirable way to solve the housing issue and we only need rent as a switch to ownership. The rental sector is thus still perceived as a transitional solution primarily for young people who need to be independent from their parents. However, explaining why rent could not be a permanent and even desirable solution to the housing issue, the motion for a resolution does not provide. For the purpose should not be merely a transitional option for those who cannot afford their own housing yet, but it should be part of an active housing policy that operates with broader social objectives such as higher housing mobility, easier adaptation to living conditions and less debt burden. This last point, called debt burden, is the one that is the biggest obstacle for young people, as stated in this programme, to be able to make their own way, if I say so. Thus, we know that it is difficult to get credit and then these credits in the long term effectively disable any normal and dignified action of the younger as well as the older people, of course. The wrong approach to the lease document is also reflected in the envisaged way it is encouraged, it is said that by subsidising the owners of empty apartments, we are trying to encourage the renting of these empty apartments. In the United Left, we propose exactly the opposite; it is said that owners who leave empty apartments in this state are said to remain empty, should also be encouraged, as a sign of some social equality, as well as distributions, to give them away, by taxing empty apartments and thus promoting renting. Because if we encourage such subsidies, then it is said that one who is in this lending position on some double benefit; it is said that when he receives a rent and then a subsidy from the State, so of course he can get this pension at all. In short, these are some of the key problems the proposal has. We have tabled these amendments in order to at least try to correct this proposal in part, but I repeat, as already stated in the position in the introduction, that we cannot support and will not support such a proposal of the programme. Nevertheless, we urge that at least part of it be corrected by adopting our amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Igor Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Perhaps I would respond to these amendments proposed by the United Left. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, these comments, which are somehow proposed in the form of an amendment on the resolution on the national housing programme, are already taken into account in the national housing programme itself or in the proposal. This is so with regard to cooperatives themselves, which are explicitly mentioned and encouraged by the resolution. The same applies to inspection services with special attention, as well as to taxation, which the colleague has just discussed. The national housing programme provides for higher taxation for those flats that will be empty in order to rent them. As far as the comments are concerned about the fact that there is somehow no funding provided for the implementation of this measure, I can only say that the national housing programme is not a financial document in the sense that it itself provides funds, these are provided in the budget. But it's a document that's actually a long-term, strategic document. It applies to the period 2015 to 2025 and will, as such, be subject to or will be implemented by several governments. I agree that the country's financial situation is limited, but that document must be accepted and monitored, and, if necessary, to the greatest extent possible, to increase funds for the implementation of the national housing programme itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude this debate. The amendment will be decided on Tuesday, 24. 11. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 41. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2014. The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal for a final account. I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Ms Mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Government submitted a proposal for a final budget account for 2014 together with a summary balance sheet on 31 December for consideration by the National Assembly in accordance with the law governing public finances. The audit reports of the Court of Auditors are also an integral part of the material, together with proposals for revisions by the auditor to the final account and clarification by the Government of the reasons for the failure to comply with the auditors' corrections. At the same time, a report on the state of and movement of tax debt on day 31 shall also be considered. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The data of the final account show that the state account was executed within the framework laid down by the rebalancing. The cash flow deficit, which is in line with the projected budget deficit, is €1.19 billion or 3.2 per cent of GDP. Revenues have been realised at EUR 8.4 billion, which is less than planned for EUR 142 million. The difference is due in particular to the lower realisation of European revenues, although the realisation was still higher than any realisation in the past years of the financial perspective. Tax revenues were realised by EUR 53 million less than planned, which means 0.8% lower than planned. On the expenditure side A of the budget balance, the implementation was lower than the balance sheet by 161.8 million. Compared to 2013, expenditure on labour costs decreased slightly. Integral expenditure on goods and services decreased by 3 per cent, while investment expenditure was 37.5 per cent higher than in 2013, resulting from the accelerated absorption of European funds from the old financial perspective. Both balances were realised for approximately 1 billion expenditure, of which 491 million for the loans and 508 million for the increase in capital shares and financial investments. Let me remind you that activities related to the implementation of measures under the Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks were still underway in 2014. The implementation of expenditure in the B balance sheet was lower than the planned 379 million or by 27.5 per cent. Debt of the state budget shall be at 31. 12. 2014 amounted to 26 billion and 20 million. During 2014, the debt increased by EUR 4 billion, was paid by EUR 3.5 billion, and the funds in the accounts increased by poor two billion. The Court of Auditors issued an opinion with reservation to the final account and did not issue an opinion for the summary balance sheet. It has issued a recommendation or recommendation to individual budget users for the preparation of response recommendations and corrective measures. For the final account, it also proposed corrections to the auditor. Within the prescribed time limit, individual authorities submitted response reports and we do not yet have audit reports from the Court of Auditors. The deadline for the submission of the response report on the pooled balance sheet has not yet expired. The Government has carefully examined the audit proposals, but estimates that they cannot be taken into account in order to change the final accounts for the previous year. The reasons for non-compliance are detailed in the written explanations, while the Government also explains how individual proposals and warnings of the Court of Auditors are still being implemented in the current budget. It takes into account all of the above, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the 2014 Final Account proposal be adopted in the form submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I'm giving the president a word. Mr Andre Shirtz to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government or representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for the supervision of public finances has examined the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia's Budget. In its introduction, she presented the basic budget implementation data of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance – similar to today. The first Vice-President of the Court of Auditors presented the audit of the balance sheet on 31 January. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. He also said that the Court of Auditors had rejected the sentence of the opinion for the following reasons: fixed assets amounting to EUR 6 billion, such as those transferred to infrastructure, that these transfers were not properly documented, that there had been errors in the calculation of the adjustments to the values that could not be established due to the irregularity of the records and the irregularity of the entry into the Land Book; long-term financial investments in companies where the reports had not yet been revised at the time of the audit and therefore could not be relied on; information on the means and resources for transactions carried out on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia; and the funds for succession were also not provided. Nor did the Court of Auditors have the basic data of the Ministry, which prepares a summary balance sheet. It pointed out that the second short-term claim was too low, amounting to EUR 668 million. It is an unjustified recovery of claims and obligations for taxes. Some claims were recorded on short-term claims to buyers or on long-term claims, amounting to 183 million, in lieu of other short-term claims. He explained that the Government had already forwarded a response report to the Government, namely, the Government, did not decide during the procedure for any correction of the errors found, so the Court of Auditors ordered a correction to the Government, but the Government did not accept these corrections. Here the work of the Court of Auditors ends, he stressed, and the National Assembly is the one who can solve this problem within the framework of legislation. There was a lot of talk in the debate on the proposal for revisions by the auditor, on possible systemic solutions, on the inefficiency of drawing on European funds, and the issue of individual irregularities in the balance sheet was also raised. In order to confirm the following conclusions, the Commission notes that the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion on the general part of the 2014 accounts, subject to the error found in the statement of revenue and expenditure. In doing so, the Commission notes from year to year the recurring errors in the statement of revenue and expenditure, and therefore calls on the Government to remedy the errors identified so that the operation is in line with the rules. In addition, it should have submitted to the National Assembly long-awaited legislative changes, in particular the Public Finance Act and the Accounting Act. The following conclusions were also drawn in the debate and also for decision-making: the Commission notes that in the final account compared to the 2014 budget initially adopted, there are large deviations in expenditure and revenue, in particular in the case of expenditure relating to infrastructure. In view of the fact that the more realistic planning of the 2014 budget was carried out with a rebalancing process by the end of 2014, it was indeed a matter of alignment with the actual situation. The Commission calls on the Government to plan for the future more realistic and long-term. The Commission also drew attention to the ineffective use of European funds in the decision. Due to repeated errors and non-submission of systemic solutions, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly not to accept the final accounts for 2014. This Decision and these Decisions were not adopted and it was decided that the Commission for the supervision of public finances should propose to the National Assembly that, following its consideration under Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u64	Nice greeting, Vice President. And hello to the secretary. Greetings to everyone. This time, the regular meeting of the National Assembly is actually a budget meeting in view of the substantive treatment of most of the laws. While we are looking to the future at other laws in the budget package, we are exceptionally looking at the final account last year. In 2014, Slovenia ended up with €8.5 billion on the revenue side, while the expenditure of the state budget was slightly higher, amounting to €9.6 billion. We will not expose the whole analysis according to each item in addition. In view of the circumstances in question, we are satisfied with the 2014 accounts of the Desus Group and have no comments, as they are ultimately facts that we cannot influence. Things have been going on more or less as planned. Of course, everyone wants the situation to be a little better, and we will not deny it. In its consideration of the final account on the home working body, the representative of the Ministry of Finance reiterated that the preparation of the demographic fund law was under way and a specific budget fund was to be established under the draft law on the implementation of the budget for 2016 and 2017, on which 10 per cent of the purchases from the sold state property was to be made. At this point in the Desus Group, we have been warned several times, because we believe that our priorities, which are not, after all, part of the coalition treaty, are not to be repeated more than once. With regard to the findings of the Court of Auditors following an audit to determine the correctness of the execution of the accounts, the Government has already submitted the requested response report and we leave the matter to the competent institutions of the audit procedure. In addition to the smooth provision of pensions in the Desus Group, we want the best possible economic and social situation for pensioners. We are also working to ensure that each budget is designed to maximize the protection of the social rights of the population and is at the same time directed towards promoting the economic development of the country. Meeting such conditions is always a difficult task. Regardless of the difficulty, MEPs and Members in Desus will continue to work hard to ensure the overall satisfaction of all stakeholders with regard to the implementation of future proposed budgets. For the closing account, let me say that we will support the closing account for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u66	Honourable Vice-President, Government Representative, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. As we have heard in the proposal's opening presentation, the implementation was within the framework prescribed by the budget rebalancing. This applies to revenue of EUR 8 billion 459.5 million, as to expenditure of EUR 9 billion 654.9 million, to a budget deficit of EUR 1 billion 195.4 million, or 3.2 gross domestic product, as well as to other key items where there were no major deviations from the planned. This year, the Court of Auditors also revised for the first time a summary balance sheet covering all assets and liabilities of EUR 31 billion. In addition to the key delimitations between items, this audit also finds a 5% reduction in tax debt. It also identified certain irregularities, such as the valuation of property owned by the State. The government here points out that these data are improving year after year, but of course correct valuation is extremely difficult, since, according to the Court of Auditors’ requirements, for example, buildings need to be separated from the land on which they stand. In view of the fact that some of these properties are already several decades old, we can insist that they are difficult work, but we hope that they will soon be completed and that we will finally come to a fully regulated record here in this area. As each year, there are differences between the Government and the Court of Auditors in the adoption of the final accounts as well as in the regularity of the presentation of certain revenue, expenditure and resources, in particular from year to year, a problem or disagreement arises between the Government and the Court of Auditors regarding the revisions of auditors. In each government, it seems more appropriate to include corrections in the opening balance for next year, and the Court of Auditors believes that this can be settled in the balance sheet, but it is not possible for financial flows, so we propose that the methodology for domestic reporting and reporting to the European Union be brought closer in the future so that such inconsistencies are no longer needed. Since such differences have been repeated in the opinion for many years, the call on both the Government and the Court of Auditors to make further efforts to bring their views closer together and thus be fully prepared in future accounts, as required by the Court of Auditors. In the debate at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, which is the parent labour force for the consideration of this important act, the debate was thorough and frank. The members of the Commission also received comprehensive and satisfactory answers to other questions such as derogations from the envisaged implementation, European funds drawback, state guarantees and the difficult reduction in the total public debt to start in the coming year. In particular, we are pleased to learn that the Ministry of Finance is actively working to prepare changes to the laws' systems, such as the Public Finance Act and the Accounting Act, which will allow the adoption of key financial documents in the future to be more appropriate. The Commission has thus adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly the adoption of the final accounts of the budget. It seems important to us in particular to point out that the Government and the Court of Auditors are drawing closer to each other’s views that irregularities are being resolved and reduced so that minor irregularities can be claimed, despite the fact that we have properly planned and transparent public finances. The Social Democrats will therefore support the 2014 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The refugee crisis is not a security crisis, it is a humanitarian crisis and yet it is more than just that, it is also a state crisis. Given that we have recently put one refugee crisis through and that, for example, by the number of people we have settled here, there has been a much greater infrastructure and logistics supply, the inability of the state to deal effectively and humanely with the current crisis clearly shows its disintegration. And what is the reason for this — headless saving! Therefore, on the one hand, we can have trained and underpaid police officers in obsolete equipment and on the other hand, almost concentration camps without conditions for a decent life of refugees. This is also reflected in specific figures; for the police in 2014, we earmarked around EUR 290 million, this year about the same amount, and in 2011, for example, before the infamous ZUJF was implemented, we allocated EUR 35 million or 12 per cent more. Of course, the police are no exception. Virtually all the key social sub-systems of health, education and social services have deteriorated dramatically in recent years. Saving us is killing the country. And not just the state, saving kills the economy. When we look at the wage analysis in the public sector in 2014, which is part of the final account, we see that since 2002 we have witnessed wage compressions in the public sector, which grew at about 1 per cent, and for the first time fell in 2004, by 0.7 per cent. In 2008 and 2009, after Virant’s reform of the wage system in the public sector, we experienced the only major leap, i.e. 3.8 and 5.8 per cent, and since then wages in the public sector are falling. The biggest decline was in 2012 when the ZUJF was adopted and implemented by 4.7 per cent and the deep 4.1 per cent decline continued a year later, in 2013. Only last year did gross wages in the public sector rise slightly again, and that is only by a tenth of a percent. In short, if macroeconomic analyses are the only ones that hinder the recovery of the Slovenian economy, in particular, the lack of economic investment and the demand for households, this problem is highlighted by saving. Until now, when the international economic situation has been favourable to our economy, this has not been so known in economic growth, but it has certainly been known in people's lives. However, once the situation in international markets has changed – the crisis of the German automotive industry, the relatively low growth of the American economy, the stagnation of the European and Japanese economies and the cooling of the Asian and South American industries – the consequences of saving will be reflected in all dimensions. Therefore, in the United Left Group, although the proposal for a final account can be supported, savings, which has also been budgeted by the 2014 budget, will never be able to.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u70	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The final account is real matter or, what was, is a reflection of the actual situation this year, that is, for 2014. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the final account, nor will we oppose it. Why? For two key reasons. Firstly, the Court of Auditors’ opinion and the annual repetition of the same errors and inconsistencies, the deviations from the budget balance, despite the fact that the budget balance was carried out on 19 November, i.e. at the end of the year. In particular, what the Commission has already found for the supervision of public finances: there are always one and the same errors that are repeated, and the government is not responding and is not correcting these mistakes. Indeed, in 2014 they are in the final account compared to the original budget for 2014, it is said, without the rebalancing that was adopted in November, as I have already said in 2014, that there are also large deviations in expenditure — infrastructure, transport policy — and income — from the planned real estate tax. In view of all the above facts, given these inconsistencies, in Novi Slovenije we defended the position that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should correct the final account. This was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors and it was in the Government that these changes should be addressed in a qualitative manner. These errors appear to be repeated again next year and sooner or later the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should also bite into this matter. Therefore, as it is said, for these reasons of nonconsistency, the difference between expenditure and revenue and the Court of Auditors' opinion, with reservation, follows that the New Slovenia Group cannot support the final account.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We are considering the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. So it's about the year we had two governments, and it's about the year we ended up with the budget rebalancing. We accepted the rebalance, let me just remember, on 19 November 2014, a bad month and a half before the calendar end of 2014, and then some of us wondered whether it was really necessary. Of course, we did not make it necessary to lose some of the planned revenues, such as real estate tax revenues, nor the loss of revenue from European funds, nor from the statement of expenditure on the budget, where we had higher borrowing costs on the one hand and the loss of transfers to the pension fund due to the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act and the related changes in the financing of the Treasury of ZPIZ and Kad. The necessity of the rebalancing was not problematic due to the above facts, which were known and accepted. We wondered whether the rebalancing was necessary in view of the fact that the government had taken the necessary measures in leaving at the time, even in July 2014, which allowed the budget to be implemented smoothly, without a balance. The coalition is a then-rebalance, and I want to remind you of this, it has declared a great achievement. Some of the colleagues, not long after that, are also among the achievements of the current government that I have been talking about. What is more, the Ministry has made a serious mistake in the end of the year, in spite of the fact that the revenues and especially the tax revenues shown at the end of the year have been severe. Mistake about 150 million euros a month and a half before the end of the year, but it is not that way, even if this analogy is translated into a more up-to-date one, the adopted 2016 budget, where we recall the costs of the refugee crisis. I fear what and how it was planned for 2016, but we know that we counted so heavily at the end of 2014. Regardless of what we say, we will support the final bill. Last but not least, it was a year of great uncertainty and ignorance both in the labour market and in the economic field. We will also support it because of the Ministry of Finance's promise to present in a short time a proposal for amendments to the Public Finance Act, which will finally be resolved every year by the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I politely ask for peace in the hall! The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Tillen Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. There have been quite a few words about realisations, so in my or in our position, I will focus on other areas. In the introduction, I must certainly point out that in the SMC we are aware of the importance of the opinion with the reservation issued by the Court of Auditors on the proposal of the general part of the annual accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 due to the identified shortcomings in the presentation of the accounting categories. This has so far been the case – so far – for quite a number of years – in our opinion not enough attention has been devoted, and in recent times, as has been evident from the responses of the Ministry of Finance in the context of the meeting of the competent committee of the National Assembly, this issue has been addressed more thoroughly. The differences found had different causes. One of the very important results from ambiguities or differences in expert opinions between the Government and the Court of Auditors, and will also need to be proactively coordinated in the future during the course of the audits. Part has a historical indication, resulting from an amendment to the accounting rules, incomplete or outdated records, which must first be resolved at the substantive level before correct accounting recognition can be guaranteed. Part of it comes from legislation, to which we will have to approach this house in a short time, as well as some of the possible shortcomings in organisation and knowledge. In this regard, in the SMC Group, we expect the Government to proceed decisively with the implementation of measures to ensure compliance of enforcement with the Court of Auditors’ warnings, whether it is consistency in the publication of individual events, i.e. the competence of accounting and accounting staff and those who give the instructions for recording, to establish records to identify events, or to identify solutions that need to be more clearly or more specifically defined in systemic legislation – an example of a law on public finances that has not been revamped for more than a decade. As a result of the decision taken by the Commission for the supervision of public finances in the SMC Group, the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 is to be adopted. However, as we say, we also expect a stronger dynamic of constructive cooperation between the Court of Auditors and the Government in due course to make progress in this area. In the parliamentary group, we will, as it is said, support the final accounts of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! About one year ago, we were talking about the closing account for 2013. At that time, we also addressed the Court of Auditors' audit report and drew attention to some mistakes. We have drawn attention to errors in the booking of individual expenditure, revenues in connection with the SID Bank, in relation to insurance, in relation to energy companies, in connection with the Accounting Act, the Public Finance Act and so on. At that time, I think that almost all the parties said that the corrections imposed by the Court of Auditors should actually be implemented in the 2014 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this has not happened! As with many things, you have stayed with words and in fact do not want any corrections, especially those imposed by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has also said that it is simply impossible to complete with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, who represent the Government here, until the end in the sense of finding appropriate solutions for certain matters. The government or the Ministry of Finance here opposes and is unable to tell itself anything, simply put, and does not accept their solutions. The National Assembly is the one who can impose certain solutions on the Government. That solution wouldn't hurt anyone. These solutions, which should be adopted by the National Assembly and thus by the coalition, would in fact constitute greater legality of the Government's operation, greater legality of operation of the para-State institutions as well. These solutions would also be a signal for other budgetary consumers both directly and indirectly. However, from the presentation of the positions of the coalition groups, it follows that this coalition will not end this coalition, it will not make the budget more legal and even more prudent, as the Court of Auditors points out. I think that there is absolutely no effect here on any call for a coalition on this, because the simple coalition also agrees with the mistakes, the illegality, the recklessness that the Court of Auditors finds, and says that this is all right, because they will not do anything about it. It is also important here to demonstrate the reality of the budget lines. There may also be a challenge for the Government to respond to what were the reallocations between 2014, from the 2014 core budget to the 2014 final budget, this is probably one of the figures of the allocation. The second is how far the allocation between the 2014 budget correction was, according to the new budget and the final accounts. I hope that the Government will present it in such a way that it is difficult to talk about the reality of budget revenue planning and budget expenditure. The reality of budget revenue planning is that just one extremely important resource has not been implemented, it has not been the revenue of the budget, it is the property tax, which has experienced a complete fiasco in the Constitutional Court, and so on. In the area of expenditure, the Court of Auditors also draws attention to a high redeployment of 150 million mainly in the field of transport infrastructure, in the field of transport policy. In short, this real planning remains only in words and far from being realistic. It was also pointed out that the Government simply does not follow the recommendations of the Commission for the supervision of public finances or itself when it keeps talking about changing systemic solutions. Here I am thinking mainly of the new Public Finance Act and the new Accounting Act. Every year the government comes and I say she'll do it, and she doesn't. We still don't have members of the Public Finance Act today, but I think that as long as I've been monitoring the government's work, let's say, every year she's promised it, in all governments, she hasn't actually done it. There are always reasons. I tell you that the administration is headed by the Ministry of Finance and the administration will tell the minister when the law will be ready and when not, not the Minister! The Minister doesn't have a word here, not today. I don't even know if she's a secretary of state. Administration says whether it's law or not, and that's bad. This is also the case with the use of European funds. This was also the case in 2014 that they were not optimally pumped. And they will not even be exhausted in 2015, 2016, when the new financial perspective is in place. For this reason, the Commission for the supervision of public finances has also proposed that the Commission adopt certain decisions, which I have also mentioned and read in the introduction. These conclusions relate in particular to the fact that the Government corrects the irregularities found. This is also proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Slovenian Democratic Party also proposes that this final account be simply made legal and in line with the Court of Auditors' recommendations to realistically plan revenue and expenditure in order to reduce deviations in revenue and expenditure, in order to improve accounting, in order to improve the planning and implementation of European funds, in particular by affecting higher economic growth and increased employment. After all, given that these reports and accounts are repeated year after year with the same errors, nothing changes, the Slovenian Democratic Party also proposes to the National Assembly that this final account should not be accepted by the National Assembly for just one reason: in order to increase the legality, transparency and prudence of the budget under which the government actually operates, supported by this coalition. It would do the coalition something good for itself. In fact, it would increase legality and actually do what it says in the coalition's programme to act legally. For this reason, I see no reason not to reject the coalition's final budget account for 2014 and to call on the Government further to correct the budget and take account of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. We will not accept this final budget account for 2014 in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a final account. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare the mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014, which, as the Secretary of State has already said, has been implemented in accordance with and within the framework that he has prescribed or planned to adopt the budget and then the budget rebalancing for 2014. According to this final account, we have realised 8 billion 459 million revenue in 2014, 78% of which relates to tax revenues, 10% to non-tax revenues, and 12% to the other 12% to the European Union. More than one billion of these funds are involved – as a result of drawing on projects, on the other hand 37% of the investments made were more than 2013. Regarding the expenditure itself; they were realised for 9 billion 654 million. This structure shows that we spend 30 per cent of our expenditure on current consumption, 54 per cent on transfers and 4 per cent on payments to the European Union. The difference between EU funds received and EU payments shows a positive balance for Slovenia. The surplus is more than €600 million and Slovenia is the net recipient of the European budget. This is the highest net surplus of 125 million, higher than in 2013 and highest since we are a full member of the European Union. The A balance of income and expenditure shows that it was a deficit of one billion 195 million, representing 3.2 per cent of GDP or within the deficit planned by the 2014 budget rebalancing. The surplus over revenue is 22% lower than in 2013, at which time it was one billion and a half. There has also been a reduction in the primary deficit, a real deficit which does not take account of interest income and expenditure. In 2014, this deficit amounted to € 153 million, and in 2013 it was over €700 million, which means that it fell by a low 80 per cent, which certainly means that we are going in the right direction with this policy of financial consolidation. On the other hand, it is true that the Court of Auditors has for a number of years drawn attention to certain transactions and certain irregularities in individual books and business events, which may result in incorrect revenue and expenditure on balance sheets. For this reason, the Court of Auditors has also issued an opinion with reservation, so we really expect the Government to handle these matters. The Secretary of State has already said at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission that they have prepared a response report to which they do not yet have a response from the Court of Auditors. However, they took into account most of the findings and also explained how the recommendations and findings of the Court of Auditors would be taken into account in the further implementation of the budgets over the coming years. As has already been said by the Court of Auditors' representative to the Commission for the supervision of public finances, it is now also an opportunity to regulate certain matters in legislation. Recently, in the summers, we passed the Fiscal Rule Act, which requires us to amend other legislation, particularly the Public Finance Act, the Accounting Act, probably the Community Financing Act. Now there is an opportunity for us to settle certain matters first and foremost in the Public Finance Act, for which I expect, and after providing the Secretary of State, to receive it to the National Assembly at the beginning of next year, since the last major amendment of the Public Finance Act was made in 1999, that is 15 years ago. Since then, the Republic of Slovenia has become a member of the European Union and we are in the euro area and consequently the European Community is demanding a lot of reporting from us. A representative of the Court of Auditors also spoke about this. Our system is still linked to national accounts statistics, and we know all reports relate to ESA 95 and ESA 2010. At this stage where we are, it is said, prior to the drafting of the new Public Finance Act, it is right to approach accounting on the basis of a business event, like the other EU Member States. I mean, and so the Court of Auditors also notes that we will have a number of disclosures and irregularities that have been highlighted for many years, even with this approach, partly because there are many errors that it identifies, also due to the accounting that we have. I am counting on the Ministry of Finance to coordinate in the process of drafting the Public Finance Act with the Court of Auditors. The next thing that has been repeatedly exposed is a complete transition to a programme budget, where it is also an opportunity for certain things to be resolved by the Court of Auditors. As has already been explained to us by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission and, today, by the Secretary of State, these amendments or amendments to the legislation are ongoing. We expect them in the National Assembly, as I said, a response report to this final account itself has been forwarded by the Ministry of Finance or the Government to the Court of Auditors, where, as I said, they have explained how they are and how the recommendations and conclusions of the Court of Auditors will be taken into account on the one hand and how they will be taken into account. This is how I will support this closing account for 2014, and I really expect, as I have already said, that we will talk about these things and try to approach them in a way that will no longer make such mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. To keep going where my colleague Banova ended up. What mistakes are repeated year after year and nothing happens! From year to year, they are repeating themselves and the Court of Auditors has just said that the work of the Court of Auditors ends here, and the National Assembly is on the move. The National Assembly is the one who can refuse and then these errors may be corrected. Until then, they will not, because the government disagrees with this and has also said, it simply says, it does not agree every year. Because of this, the Court of Auditors’ opinion remains in the air, it is totally unrealistic because the Government does nothing on the basis of this. It's been a couple of years. Here's the real question, once again, because there's really no other solution, what the government will do, when the government will do it, and how the government will do it. One and the same, if you want, we listen to the Floscule at all meetings by the Government: the Accounting Act, the Public Finance Act and so on and so forth. But I'm sorry, that's not it. No government. Once again, I would also ask the Government to state the deviations from the basic budget, the first one, and the final account, and the deviations from the balance and the final account, such as income data and expenditure data. I am surprised that this coalition will support everything the Government has done, even though it was partly another government in 2014, and that it will simply burn, as it were, all those irregularities, illegality, which the Court of Auditors has been pointing out for several years. The Court of Auditors, the representatives of the Court of Auditors said at a meeting of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision: "Look, we can no longer do this, we no longer have the authority to force the Government to work legally, to force the Government to do what we impose on it. Here you will simply support everything together and the caravan goes on to the 2015 budget and the 2015 final account. Ladies and gentlemen, in my personal opinion, this is irresponsible! This is irresponsible, and this is a wrong sign, a wrong signal for all other budgetary users, because they, too, will then afford to work illegally to work contrary to the Court of Auditors' opinion. In short, we ask ourselves why we have the Court of Auditors, if the Government doesn't respect it, the one that should be taken into account first! Then she asks others to take it into account, and she doesn't. I ask the Government's representative for this information what she will do with regard to the Court of Auditors' opinion, at least in front of the National Assembly, to state what she will do. I also ask him to report on these imbalances between the first and second budgets and the final budget. Look, otherwise we didn't do anything here. Also on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission is the vote by the coalition taking over the voting machine and simply supporting the government even when the Court of Auditors finds that something is wrong. They're not even critical enough to the government to at least point out that. Everything is polished, everything is polished at the end and the matter will go through. Yeah, sorry, that's not how public finances work! It's not your public finances, it's not personal finances, it's taxpayers' finances, it's taxpayers' money. Dear coalition, this is how you deal with taxpayers' money so you don't take the Court of Auditors into account. Of course I won't support this final bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are moving to the final part of the debate in which she gets the word of a representative of the Government of Mags. Matthew Vraničar Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Under the Public Finance Act, the balance of the budget is an instrument to be used if the Government finds that, despite the measures taken under its jurisdiction, it cannot balance the revenue and expenditure of the State budget in accordance with what was adopted in the National Assembly as a valid budget. When this government took office in the second half of September 2014, it decided whether it would be able to implement the budget by the end of the year in accordance with the powers it has, or would propose to the National Assembly a budget rebalance because the derogations between the implementation of what it has adopted are so large that the legitimacy of the budget is reduced. We've decided to prepare a budget rebalancing. Following the entry into force or following the entry into force of last November, the additional allocations from the reserve were 14.9 million, while the redeployment data from the beginning of the year to November were unfortunately not available. As regards the perceptions of the differences between the actual realization and the assessment of possible implementation in the budget rebalancing, data was given that tax revenues were to differ from those planned for 150 million, and I have to demarcate this information. The fact is that the tax revenues were realised in 99.20 per cent, which was lower than planned for 53 million. The difference was mainly due to domestic taxes on goods and services, excise duties and partly to motor vehicle taxes. Why the difference? The revenue assessment was based on the implementation of 8 months in September and data on macroeconomic indicators from Umar's autumn forecast in 2014 were taken into account. These data, or this realization, were then actually realized by the end of the year in a slightly different percentage or in a different way, so essentially these derogations. The second part of the derogations relates to drawing on European funds, where realisation is 80 million lower than planned, but at the same time at the end of 2014 there were approximately 100 million realised expenditure for which we have not yet been able to realise for two reasons. On the one hand, because the European Commission has not yet provided sufficient funds in the Bank of Slovenia’s special account where these funds are being collected and, on the other hand, because the ministries of interest did not provide by the end of December for the submission of claims for reimbursement, which was then realised in January or February of this year and in accordance with the monetary accounting principle recorded as income this year. It will also not be noted that, to the same extent as revenue, expenditure has also been reduced and realised to 98.35 per cent. As regards the Court of Auditors' corrections, the current regime requires a two-step procedure. The Court of Auditors shall, in the audit procedure, submit to the Government proposals for corrections, the Government shall assess whether they are taken into account by correcting the final account for backward, or whether it decides to implement them further. The government has decided to implement things that can be realised or that we agree with the Court of Auditors. The Public Finance Act further allows the National Assembly, at the request of the Court of Auditors, to request the Government to correct the final bill. In practice, this provision of the Public Finance Act has proved to be ineffective since, not one year since 2010, since this provision has been in place in the Public Finance Act, but some of it has been taken into account. However, if we look at these revisions of the auditor mentioned or listed in the 2014 audit report. The first relates to the construction of infrastructure on the lower Sava. This issue is being implemented and will be remedied by the end of this year, as all the loans hired by Infra to build the infrastructure and when these loans are paid out, the facilities will also be published or recorded in the Ministry of Environment and Space's business books. This will actually take full account of the Court of Auditors’ request, which has indeed been dragging forward for several years. With regard to financial engineering instruments, this is the second requirement of the Court of Auditors, the question of how we register the European funds that the Government or the State makes available to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund for the purpose of promoting the economy. In this case, the Government insists that it is a loan because it is a repayable asset and it is not a grant, which was the Court of Auditors' position and each year we come here in fact to some greater common understanding of this open issue. Third thing. Booking or recording of bonds of the Republic of Slovenia 21 and 39. These are bonds issued by the State in respect of the enforcement of obligations under various compensations and the compensation is paid by SDH or earlier by the Court of Justice. As early as 2010, by amending the law with which the Court of Auditors also agreed, we have arranged for the recording of the issue of such bonds for all bonds issued from 1 January 2011. For pre-issued bonds, however, in accordance with the transitional provision of the law, we must have a different recording regime, and this problem will in fact remain on the table until they remain in force or until the obligations under the bonds issued before 1 January 2011 are fully repaid. With some of the other cases referred to by the Court of Auditors in its proposals for corrections, we agree with them and assess that they must be taken into account in the current budget or that they must be taken into account in the future, but that it is not possible on this basis to correct the final account back, as a number of solutions would require a rebalancing of the budget, which has already ceased to be implemented, so in fact we are in some way in the vicious circle. The Government is also not satisfied with this approach or with these elements of the implementation of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. This is why we have already started the process of drafting a new Public Finance Act and the Accounting Act, where important changes have been introduced. It is with cooperation or with the Court of Auditors that we have already held a problem conference in October, at which practically representatives of all budgetary users at national level were present, such a conference will be held for municipal budgetary users next week. We are currently at a stage where we are coordinating with the Court of Auditors individual provisions or individual content sets of the new proposal for the Public Finance Act. In this regard, we are also coordinating the views or possible new solutions regarding the enforcement of the revision of auditors, and at least at the working level I must say that the talks are very constructive and that we are close to a very acceptable and feasible solution. A warning regarding the bookkeeping or recording of business events according to the principle of cash flow or the origin of a business event is also addressed by new system legislation, where we plan to introduce into the accounting system through certain transitional solutions, a transitional period also a system of accounting according to the principle of the occurrence of a business event. In accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, we are obliged to submit to the National Assembly for consideration the Public Finance Act within six months of the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act and we intend to stick to this deadline. At this point, internal coordination of individual solutions to the law is in the final phase and I am counting that we will already have in December the text of the law, which we will also be able to begin to coordinate within a broader framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Since I see that wishes are, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the application by pressing the microphone switch if you want to sign up for the word by a representative of the Government, you can also sign up by pressing the microphone key. Please, for your application. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, then the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the answer, at least in part, but I did not get an answer to the question about the difference between income and expenditure in terms of the basic budget, the one before the correction, before the rebalancing and the final account. One more thing, when I was talking about 150 000, I was talking about 150 million, I apologize for 150 million expenditure at the Transport Ministry or at the transport station at the Ministry of Infrastructure, and there is a question, because there was no money left in 2014. If you remember, because that was still, I don't know, school transportation and so on and all that stuff. I was talking about it. In fact, I would like to: firstly, the answers to what real planning is like, because this shows how much basic assumptions were in the budget and how much they were in one year without a budget rebalancing. Then the balance and the closing account can be taken into account. This was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors, so of course I would like to hear this. And secondly, the distinguished representative of the government, that's right, what you said, I agree that you will do. You said one date, I'm glad, it's December this year, a new law on public finances, but it's repeated. I guess I've been saying the same thing for five years, and you're responding in a similar way, and there's no significant progress, because you're also saying for these plants on the Sava, and so on, it's been repeating the same story for ten years. It may not always be necessary to change the rules, but perhaps a little good will is needed, and perhaps not only to bury yourself in the trenches, but not to change anything, as is actually happening and no one changes anything. We need an intense deal, not just a deal, but an agreement, because it's a big deal, it's not just a deal. If you're making a deal, I don't know, but the state administration is sometimes paid to make a deal. I hope that these troubled conferences on the law on public finances will contribute to really getting this in December, as you promised. I'll hold you to that. I hope that it will contribute to better solutions, especially because I fear that the conference itself will not produce results if you just agree again, but not agree. Yesterday's the problem with you making deals, making deals, making deals, not making deals. This also applies to coalitions. This has been going on for years. Decisions need to be taken and solutions need to be taken so that the problems that the Court of Auditors now draws attention to are easily resolved. Whether the solutions are now the best, the best, that is the second question. But that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. When I spoke of 150 million, I did not mean your debate, Mr Shircelj, but rather the opening presentation of the views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Secondly, when I mentioned December this year, I hope that you heard me well because I said that the law would then be ready for wider public hearing, it would not yet be submitted to the National Assembly, that there would be no misunderstanding or misunderstanding. Thirdly, once again, the balance sheet instrument is intended to harmonise the revenue and expenditure side during the year when the budget is being implemented if the budget execution shows that it is not possible to implement the budget within the framework as originally outlined. If we compare the initially adopted budget for 2014, this is the budget that was adopted in November 2013 on the basis of macroeconomic data from the September or autumn forecast 2013 then the expenditure or then the planned revenue was projected at 162 million higher than the actual realization. Of course, this is the main source of tax revenue. While the expenditure would have been less than the originally planned expenditure if the budget had not been rebalanced at an amount which would have been 15 million below the originally planned expenditure, it would, of course, have been that the government budget deficit would have been realised by almost 150 million more than the one originally planned and also targeted in terms of Slovenian international commitments. As a result of this derogation, the Government has decided not to implement the budget by means of the measures it has in its competence, without prejudice to the balance sheet instrument, and has also submitted the rebalance in October to the National Assembly for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-20-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, we will decide on the proposal for a final account on Tuesday 24. 11. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Monday. 11. 2015 at 10 a.m. However, I inform you that the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will begin at 4 p.m.
