ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak until 10.30 p.m. and from 19 p.m. to 7 p.m., Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer until 11 p.m., Mrs Janja Sluga, mag. Tanja Zink, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Ivan Škodnik by 11 a.m. and Mrs Eva Irgl. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 24 March 2015 with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. Before moving to the agenda for the meeting, I inform you that the Group of Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jožet Tank, has tabled a proposal on 25 March 2015 for the withdrawal of item 2 of the agenda, which was included on the agenda under Article 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely the requests of the Group of 23 Members and Members, with the first-signed Dr Mate T. Vatovci. The motion for withdrawal and my reply to it are published on the e-club. The fifth paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly expressly provides that withdrawal is not possible for matters which have been placed on the agenda of the meeting under Article 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure and therefore the National Assembly will not decide on the proposal for withdrawal of the second item from the agenda of that meeting. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before we vote on the agenda of this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, it would be good to clarify all procedural assumptions allowing for the inclusion of points on the agenda of the National Assembly. I informed you of the absence of a possibility to place the second item on the agenda at the meeting of the National Assembly two days ago. Nevertheless, you insisted that this point be placed on the agenda. In view of the fact that, during this period, the Constitution was amended in the 90th Article governing the referendum regime and was established by a constitutional law to be applied directly, Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative was adopted in the second paragraph. And this second section of the Constitutional Law provides that, pending the harmonisation of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative shall apply mutatis mutandis in such a way that the Constitutional Court decides in a dispute between the candidate of the referendum and the National Assembly which rejects the call for a referendum on the law. Therefore, this direct provision cannot be taken into account in the process of collecting the signatures that you have ordered – you could probably have done it yourself – you do not need a decision by the National Assembly – because the National Assembly has not yet decided on the call for a referendum, so it did not reject the decision to call for a referendum. And since neither the previous government – this provision of the Constitutional Law applies from 31 May 2013 – the government of Alenka Bratušek, and in 7 months neither the government of Mir Cerar prepared anything to amend the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, this provision of the Constitutional Law should be understood and applied directly. Directly. And what you are doing is actually a violation of the constitutional provision and the constitutional law that amended the referendum decision. With regard to other matters, Mr President, it should also be borne in mind that we have several decisions in the National Assembly, including former Presidents of the National Assembly, such as Mr Gantar, who rejected the requirement that he met all the formal conditions, there is a sufficient number of signatures to convene an extraordinary meeting, citing that it should also be constitutionally permissible. Where the second section provides otherwise, it shall apply constitutionally [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u3	By doing so, you repeat the request you have already made with a request to withdraw the item from the agenda to which you have received a very clear response, and this extensive response. I'll take those essentials in that answer. Firstly, there is a fact that the Group of Members has tabled a proposal for a decision and, on the basis of Article 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have also assigned this decision to the Parliamentary Working Body and, on the basis of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to the Legislative and Legal Service, which has given an opinion on the compatibility of the proposal with the Constitution and the legal system and has found that it is in conformity with the provisions of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. I do not have the authority to do so or to arbitrarily assess whether it is contrary to the Constitution and therefore does not meet the conditions for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly. This can be decided only by the National Assembly and will be decided at today’s meeting, if the decision is taken or not adopted, by the National Assembly. The opinion of the ZPS can in this case only support me. The PSC has examined the draft decision in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and has found that the proposal for a decision has a legal basis in the provision of the fourth indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution in conjunction with the second paragraph of the second section of the Constitutional Act amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, under which the National Assembly rejects the call for a referendum on the law if it considers that the law eliminates unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. However, as regards the time limit for adoption of the decision, the following shall apply. The proposal for a decision concerns the initiative of voters to apply for a legislative referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, variant D adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 3. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With regard to this initiative, following the conclusion that it has been tabled in accordance with the law, I have set a calendar period within which the signatures of the electorate to support the request for a referendum should be collected, namely on the first day of Monday, 23. 3. 2015, last day, day 35, so Sunday, 26. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Subject to the reasonable application of the provisions of Article 21(1) and (2) of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, which, pending the harmonisation of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative with amendments to the Constitution, provides for the second paragraph of the second section of the Constitutional Law on Amendments to the 90th, 97th and 99th Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly may adopt a decision rejecting the call for a referendum at the time of the conclusion of the signatures in support of the referendum request, and no later than seven days after the submission of the request for a referendum. The proposal for a decision is therefore compatible with the provisions of the Constitution and constitutional law cited above in those respects, according to the ZPS. If you'd like some further reasons. The first sentence of the second paragraph of the second section of the Constitutional Act, pending the harmonisation of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative with Constitutional Amendment, provides that the provisions of the substantive part of the constitutional amendment, namely Article 1 of the Constitutional Law, shall apply directly to the meaningful application of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. The second sentence also provides, or additionally, that, during the transitional period, Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative shall apply mutatis mutandis in such a way that the Constitutional Court decides in a dispute between the candidate of the referendum and the National Assembly which rejects the call for a referendum. It is the Constitutional Court that will eventually decide in this dispute. On the basis of all of this, I believe that these assumptions, which are necessary for this item to be on the agenda and that it is decided today, are fulfilled. Second, I warn you, second procedurally, second topic. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your warnings, too, but you don't need them. I think that, on such an important topic that you forcefully place on the agenda by all minimum standards, even as regards references to an extraordinary meeting, these dilemmas need to be clarified. It is precisely in the second section that Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative should be applied in a meaningful, not inadvisable way. Makes sense. And the second sentence of this second section makes this sense even more precise when it says that the Constitutional Court decides in a dispute between the applicant and the National Assembly at the time when the call for a referendum is rejected. However, certain conditions must be met in order to reject the call for a referendum. First, Mr President, at least 40,000 signatures must be collected within the prescribed time limit, and these signatures must be entered into the National Assembly no later than within the next seven days. On this basis, the National Assembly shall draw up a decree on the invitation to vote on the referendum. In the event that the National Assembly does not vote on the referendum, a constitutional dispute shall follow. That is what the second sentence of the second paragraph of the Constitutional Law states. What you're interpreting used to be true. Until now, when we've accepted it, that's the way it is. And I had previously warned that neither the previous government nor the current government, led by constitutional lawyer Miro Cerar, had amended the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative in accordance with the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution. It's not even in the Government's normative work programme, which is even worse, nor is it in the program. And with these interpretations, when you refer to some pre- Flood decisions relating to a different referendum regime, you intervene and cancel what is enshrined in the constitutional law. The provision of constitutional law regarding the rejection of the referendum, Mr President, is directly applicable, it is not unreasonable to interpret, it is impossible to extend, because it is very selective and very accurate when possible. We must first reach a decision on the call for a referendum in order to be able to reject this matter. We can't do this any other way. The only document to be rejected is the decree referred to in Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The reference to Article 64 makes no sense, as there is also a provision in one part that states that it is not possible to refuse a meeting if it is convened by the opposition. In this case, there are two thirds of the signatories to the Coalition's requirements [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u5	There is a Constitution above the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I will quote to you the relevant part of the Constitution. The meeting of the National Assembly, and I am bound to do so, i.e. paragraph 85, second paragraph. Regular and extraordinary meetings shall be convened by the President of the National Assembly; he shall convene an extraordinary meeting if at least a quarter of the members of the National Assembly or the President of the Republic so require. Of course, other business conditions must also be met for this to be done. In this case this is the case and in this case the meeting is convened. I don't have anything to Parliament here or call a meeting or not, I just have to call it. Finally, whatever the decision is, there is still legal protection. It is the Constitutional Court who will judge whether the Constitution has been properly applied or not. The use of the Constitution is not judged by the National Assembly. The National Assembly can only use it. Whether its use is appropriate or inappropriate shall be decided by the Constitutional Court. Given what has been said so far, I do not see the procedural proposal you are making. I note that the conditions for calling the meeting have been met, so we will continue to vote on the agenda. But I ask you not to remind me of the same matter that has already been done, because I will consider it an abuse of procedure. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Look, Mr President, I can argue matters that may happen again in one part and upgrade in the other. I don't think these preemptive threats of how to use anything are necessary. I warned you that the point should not be placed on the agenda because it does not meet the conditions. Your predecessor, one of the predecessors, also a professor at the FDV, Dr. Pavel Gantar, refused us at least three times in the term of office when the President of the National Assembly refused, under the same business and constitutional arrangements in this part, a request for a meeting of the National Assembly, which was supported by 23 signatures. It was, for example, a proposal regarding the treatment of Stožica Park, the granting of credits and clienteleism, as well as, say, the banking part concerning Ultra. There he referred to the provision that the prescribed number of signatures 23 was not sufficient, but that there should also be constitutional admissibility for a reference or refusal of a meeting which he did not mention. We warn you in this particular matter that the second paragraph of the second section of the Constitutional Law does not allow this point to be placed on the agenda because it is constitutionally inadmissible because the conditions are not met because there is no decision. You place this on the agenda and do not even allow for the collection of signatures, the submission of a request for a referendum and the drafting of a decision. Here's the breach, Mr. President. And I think that the President of the National Assembly, after what has already happened with regard to immunity or with regard to the status of one of the Members, cannot again allow and afford scarves at the constitutional and legal level. That's unacceptable, Mr. President. You've been kidnapped once by the Constitutional Court, and now maybe next time. And I think what you're doing is the ultimate violence against those you've given them the opportunity to meet the conditions of 2 thousand and 500 signatures and give them 80 or more thousand to even collect signatures. You set a deadline for them to collect signatures, and now you want to destroy this deadline for them with an invalid and in line with a constitutional order and also with a decision that cannot be taken in a referendum decision. The decree is the only act of the National Assembly specifically set out in the Rules of Procedure which may be adopted at the time of the referendum. And what you do is nothing like it. I propose that this item, item 2, be withdrawn from the agenda of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u7	You've filed a motion for withdrawal for the third time. This is the third time you've repeated the same procedure. How else could I not interpret what you've been doing? There's one thing I'm finding out. Your interpretation, which is obviously the only merciless one in this country, would require that a meaningful interpretation of the Constitution means creating a legal void. Even when this country was created, the transition from one legal order to another legal order was based on the principle of continuity, precisely because there were no legal gaps. The creation of legal voids by the National Assembly itself means a breakdown. In fact, it means denying the existence of a state. It can be discussed or decided, as I said before, only by the Constitutional Court. In order for the Constitutional Court to decide on a new regulation, the initiators of the referendum must appeal to a decision which must be such as to reject this call for a referendum. All of this, of course, in line with all the other things that have already been said, has already been determined. Now that's true, now you have a fourth procedural. I hope it's not a retreat again, because otherwise it's simply an abuse. That's what I'm gonna say in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In this case, the case you're talking about, there's no legal void. You invented a legal void. The constitutional regime and the second section of the constitutional law do not allow for any interpretation of the legal void. They have met the quota of 80 000, not 2 000 500 signatures for the start of the procedure, you have given them a date for the collection of signatures, and the National Assembly after this constitutional arrangement, after this second section can take action only when the signatures are submitted, and the National Assembly decides on the decision to call for a referendum. There's absolutely no legal void here. Those lawyers in this National Assembly, which you are interpreting as such, should be you as the chairman or those who have helped you to design such a solution, are using constitutional arrangements to achieve a goal that does not have any unconstitutionality. There is no point in this case to your purpose, because what you are saying is not unconstitutional. Here I must remind you that those who have decided to collect signatures have the right to bring this to an end. The National Assembly cannot cut in between these stages. It may reject the ruling and then these procedural conditions for the review in the Constitutional Court, and no sooner. Read the provision again. Citizens who have decided to do so and who support it in a mass way – there is probably no law in this country that would have experienced such support in all stages of signature-gathering – should be allowed to do so, especially because you are directly interfering with the current constitutional regime by doing what you would have done. It's a valid constitutional arrangement. And it is likely that the National Assembly is not the institution that will, by some vote, change the solutions it has written down in the Constitution. This probably isn't the purpose of the National Assembly. And if you're not aware of this problem, then unfortunately something is very wrong. We have also warned you in the previous case when it came to determining the termination of the mandate of one of the Members that you are doing the wrong thing. And the Constitutional Court told you that you did the wrong thing. We even told you what the proper procedure was, but you didn't take that into account. In that case, we're telling you the same thing. That is why I propose, Mr President, that you be able to withdraw the point from the agenda and that we vote on it when it is scheduled, that is, when it will be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Now it was the fourth time on the same spot. Mr Tanko, I am giving you a reminder, because you are abusing the procedure, so that you will always repeat the same proposal, and only in order not to proceed with the procedure. The basic purpose of procedural provisions or options for a procedural proposal is to enable the proper application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, it is not the intention of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and its rules, which speak of procedural proposals, to merely steal time by means of them so that we do not decide before we even reach the meritum, that is, before we reach anything at all. First, we need to set the agenda, as we always call it. With regard to this agenda, I note that I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. However, I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. Mr. Tanko, you want a word again? Procedural? Please first state what a procedural proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Mr President, you are now abusing the rules of procedure. You too are defending these various arguments that I am giving to individual procedural proposals, virtually very narrow, only by referring to an explanation which, after this interpretation, would also allow for a preliminary intervention in the process of collecting signatures. These legal arguments, Mr President, cannot be relied on in the second section of the constitutional law. It is not possible because no part of the second section of the Constitutional Law states that the legislator may intervene in the process of collecting signatures. However, it is expressly stated that the legislator may reject a decision on the invitation to referendum. And that's clearly written. In order to be able to reject a decision on the invitation to referendum, the signatures must first be submitted to the National Assembly. That's what you call a sufficient number and a timely number. Until we decide to reject it, Mr President, we just have to get there. We, the National Assembly, are not at this stage. And so I will tell you again: with this point, which you force after a short period of time, not a 15-day term, but for the opposition, but after a second period, after a two-day period, for the meeting of the National Assembly, you are interfering with what is explicitly stated in the second section of the Constitutional Law. This is the only thing explicitly written — the rejection of the referendum on law. The rejection of the referendum on the law is achieved only by rejecting the decision on the referendum. Mr. Horvat can explain this to you in the middle of the night. There's no other way. There is no other way to interpret this. As long as we do not have a ruling in the National Assembly, we cannot decide on this matter, whether the conditions laid down in Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 85 of the Constitution are met, or vice versa, as it does not matter because the condition that this decision is unconstitutional is not met is not met. The National Assembly cannot place on the agenda a point which is unconstitutional even if you have a sufficient number of signatures. This has already happened in this National Assembly, I told you on cases before. Your colleague with the FDV did this, Dr. Pavel Gantar, in our opinion at the time unfounded, but in this case this is an explicit provision in the second section of the Constitutional Law. I suggest you put this procedural proposal to the vote. How you vote is your decision. The process proposal, Mr President, must be voted on in any case, because it is not unconstitutional, non-profit-making, but it is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Your procedural proposal would mean that it would be possible, at any time from this point forward, if voted on for the first time, to prevent any opposition party from citing any extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. To abuse him. That's why I'm not putting him on the agenda. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. The last procedural before the vote. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There was a system failure, just like yesterday in collecting signatures. Probably not by accident, but we can think of another way. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that you adopted a decision on the Committee yesterday that does not have any legal instruction for those concerned by this decision. Therefore, with these tons of legal knowledge possessed by the signatories and the silent supporters of this Decision to prevent the collection of signatures, you do not allow those who collect signatures to receive legal instruction — where they complain, how they complain, how long they complain. This is an integral part of any normal decision, whether it is a judicial decision or a national decision. We also have cases like this in the National Assembly. Thus, the violent conduct of the coalition and the signatories, which have only one goal ahead of them – to somehow disable the referendum call at any stage – is, to say the least, inappropriate, unworthy. It is likely that the National Assembly and the Mainstream Policy of the National Assembly will not raise their reputation, nor will they. It is also unworthy of this insurmountable pitting between support and non-support and deliberation about how the largest coalition party will be washed. Whether you have a position or not, or whether you are in favour or against a referendum invitation to tender, at any stage. I think that at least we need to follow the warning that you will complete the decision, that those who have worked hard to collect signatures will even know why this decision is going to be a cover for a complaint. That's not what it is now. Now they can be wiped under their noses or perhaps go to the administrative unit or to the ice cream man for legal instruction. This is not how you work in an institution called the National Assembly, but at the very least it is done by preventing the things you have ordered, Mr President of the National Assembly. You ordered this, you gave them the opportunity, and the only phase, the only period in which the National Assembly can re-engage, is the call for a referendum. Previously, the National Assembly, after this amended regime of May 2013, cannot cut it down, so explain it to yourself however you want to. You can draw an argument out of five veins. This cannot be because it is an explicit provision in the constitutional law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u13	You've already started discussing the content before we even adopted the agenda. However, you have the opportunity, once we have decided on the decision, to submit such an amendment if anything is wrong. What I need to find out on this basis is that we can move on to a decision on the agenda. I ask Members and Members to re-check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 19. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on measures in the field of preparation within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. The bill is being proposed at the 9th emergency session of the 20th. 3. 2015 treated the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the meeting of the home working body. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In our second reading, Christian Democrats support the solutions proposed by the amendment to the law on traineeship measures. The field of traineeships needs to be fully regulated, and this novel is, according to our assessment, the right step in this direction. We are surprised, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition have thought so quickly about supporting the law. The State Secretary Levanič made it clear in the general debate that the draft law showed that the drafters of the bill had studied well the opinion of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Government's position, which had already sought to regulate volunteering in previous attempts. He also said that they had included in the preparation of this law all the conclusions and instructions adopted by the Government at its December 2014 meeting, which we are particularly pleased with. According to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Equal Opportunities was also the main initiator of the volunteer traineeship regime with the above-mentioned conclusions. They also prepared an analysis of volunteer traineeships by sector. He also stated that the Government supported a measure to exempt employers from social security contributions in the event of a trainee being employed for the duration of the traineeship and to further facilitate the implementation of this incentive even in the event of a trainee being employed after an indefinite period of time. We monitored the public debate on the bill and understood the Ministry's assurance that the money for the new arrangement of paid traineeships was provided. Then a sudden turn and block this novel on the board. That's too bad. Christian Democrats believe that this means that the government and the ministry are losing credibility. But the greatest loss is the loss of citizens and citizens who are too often waiting for the necessary solutions to their problems. We wonder whether the Government has been intimidated by the provisions it undertakes to prepare and adopt a policy for the implementation of traineeships for a period of five years. Again, many young people and their organisations point out that in some professional areas, such as social work, education, health care, law or court, regular, and thus I think paid, traineeships are not actually winable. In these areas, many young people are really forced into volunteering. In fact, it is totally inappropriate for young people not to make a voluntary decision but to be forced into it. We believe that it would be good for Christian Democrats to incorporate a guardian or an incentive into the law so that, due to the lack of earmarked money for the payment of trainees, institutions in the public sector do not sign traineeships. In the face of very unpredictable and rapidly changing situations, it is our view that this is a real possibility that would completely destroy the spirit and purpose of the law. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will also be supported by the proposed law on measures in the field of traineeship in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u15	The word is given by the Allied Parliamentary Group, for which the Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At the end of January, we decided unanimously in the National Assembly that the draft law on traineeship measures was appropriate for a second reading. Despite the fact that it was already the third attempt by the biggest opposition party to abolish volunteering and establish incentives for employers to hire trainees, we have supported the objectives and objectives of the draft law by all Members and Members of the National Assembly regardless of their political affiliation. At that time, we also pointed out that the proposed law constitutes only a basis for regulating this area and ensuring payment to all trainees and that appropriate corrections are needed. Before further consideration at the beginning of March, we were asked by the public or by the most important stakeholders in the treatment, the Youth Council of Slovenia, the Youth Plus Union and the Student Organisation of Slovenia, to postpone the treatment. Above all, as legislators, before supplementing the bill, we were asked to have the Government prepare a concrete analysis first of all, whether traineeships are really needed where they are needed and for what period, and to make firm assurances to provide funding for the payment of trainees. In the Alliance, we have listened to and agreed to the provisional withdrawal of the legal proposal from the hearing to young people whose primary purpose is this law. A serious analysis has also shown at the time of the media hearing that there are currently around 500 graduates of the Faculty of Social Work waiting for the training to be carried out. Under the 1993 Social Protection Act, social workers are required to carry out a vocational examination and practical training with a mentor in the form of a traineeship. It is only in this case that we need to find the answer to the question whether the 1993 legal provisions or compulsory traineeship are still necessary, and we should also consider whether entry into individual study areas should be restricted. In the Alliance, we believe that a quality law is necessary, not a political dispute about whether or not the Government works or does not work, and on who is more right, the youth representatives or the bill-maker, that is, the SDS. The problem is indeed pressing and it is worth noting that without analysis it is not possible to systematically regulate this area. In addition, the law would be without complementing the Government, which it withdrew for the reasons mentioned, only by supplementing the applicant and the United Left, despite their good intentions. Therefore, the attempt by the SDS to force the adoption of an inadequate law at an extraordinary meeting is assessed as a politically immature act. In the Alliance, we have demonstrated our willingness to give support to the law, but we cannot agree to the ultimate and rejection of cooperation with the stakeholders affected by the law. Therefore, rejecting the law does not mean rejecting the abolition of volunteer traineeships, but merely inappropriate conduct by the applicant. We call on the latter in the Alliance, in the future, bearing in mind that this composition of the National Assembly is capable of transcending the party divides in support of just objectives and purposes, approaches to addressing such proposals on the basis of higher democratic standards than ever before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u17	I'm asking for peace. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Erika Dekleva for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Dear President, all present! In the good three months, we have already twice considered a proposal to abolish volunteering. In December of the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, and in January of the new law, which is now under discussion again, the law on measures in the field of traineeships. Just as we agreed three months ago, we all agree today that volunteer traineeships are not admissible and that we cannot pass the fact that there are many examples of volunteering as an institution for the exploitation of young people for cheap or even free labour in the media. At the time of the first reading of the draft law on measures in the field of traineeships, we have pointed out some shortcomings. We have had doubts about the approach that the applicant has chosen, namely, to intervene in several laws at the same time with one law, as was done with Zujf, and to eliminate professionalism from the co-forming of the rules in particular areas of traineeship. We have also highlighted the concerns of the envisaged five-year traineeship implementation policy in relation to a possible slow response to market changes, since, for example, if we compare it with active employment policy measures that change or adapt to changes in the labour market at annual level and the implementation policy of traineeships is to be carried out for 5 years, we cannot go beyond the question of whether this policy or traineeship strategy is at all meaningful from this point of view. We still believe that some of the solutions to the bill are good, but not enough. The exemption from the employer's contribution to the trainee or the incentive for the direct transition of the trainee to work for an indefinite period with the same employer is certainly a measure that would bring positive results, as also brought by the Law on Labour Market Intervention Measures and Parental Protection. Nevertheless, we must say that we cannot accept the bill at all costs, regardless of the consequences and the analysis that the entire system of traineeships, and not just volunteering, would blow up in all areas, from health, education, social protection, to justice and so on. We need to make it easier for young people to enter the labour market, not to close the way to a professional examination, thus preventing them from doing the profession they have been trained to do. From the first reading of the bill to the present, many of us have pointed out the negative effects of a possible bill adopted. The arguments for rejecting the bill were also presented to us by representatives of young, youth-based organisations, the youth unemployment union and students' representatives. We have therefore adopted a decision at the 7th regular meeting of the home committee calling on the Government to prepare, within three months, a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of traineeships for tertiary education graduates, in those areas which are mainly carried out in the public administration or in the public sector, in terms of employment opportunities and the need to carry out traineeships and special professional examinations, which should also include an operational plan for the employment of graduates in different fields. The position of the SMC Group on the draft law remains the same as was given at the second reading on the home committee when we rejected all the articles of the bill. For these reasons, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u19	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Respected and respected! The proposal for a law on traineeship measures is already the third attempt by the Slovenian Democratic Party since November, and to date for the proper regulation of volunteer traineeships or for the removal of these. For the first time, we have proposed amendments to the reform of student work to halve concession funds to the Student Organisation of Slovenia and to the student services in the country and to form a special fund for the funds from which traineeships would then be paid. The second attempt was to amend Article 124 of the Labour Relations Act. Even then, you all agreed, but then you voted against the opposition. This is the third attempt, a law on measures in the field of traineeship, which was endorsed unanimously by 82 votes in favour at the end of January in the National Assembly. In previous opinions, I have also heard that we are immature as candidates, but I have to say no. We work in the public's interest, we want to solve the problem, and some of us just want to get to know each other. As immature as it is, it is appropriate to consider that politics and government renounce themselves or work hard and do nothing for young people. It is also immature that someone in the first reading supports the law with many arguments and in the second, rejects it, and it would probably be good for a politician or a member to go to a free or free internship. Here I have one payment list of a volunteer trainee who works for 70 euros. I think it's about exploiting young people, because the state tells them that their work is worth nothing. Then how do we want to build the perspective and future of the young generation in our country? I don't know, Mr. President, would you work for 70 euros a month? Probably not. Unfortunately, the coalition and the Minister of Labour did not come against the applicant, despite their promise. On the contrary, the government has prepared even amendments that would literally destroy the law. Apparently, they have high authors' fees for professors as a priority, and young people should work for free. The proposal for a law requires the Government to draw up within 15 days a strategy for the implementation of the traineeship policy for a period of 5 years. This will start to apply a solution that means abolishing volunteer traineeships or repealing the legal basis that allows volunteer traineeships at systemic level. In the event that the policy for the implementation of traineeships is not adopted in a timely manner, the law provides for a guardian covering all volunteer traineeship contracts, namely that each volunteer trainee is entitled to a cash refund of at least a net minimum wage. Following assurances from State Secretary Dejan Levanič at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy 11 12. 2014 and the meeting of the National Assembly of 18. 12. In 2015, funds of EUR 24 million have already been made available, from which funding can be provided for the payment of trainees. The law also includes incentives for the employment of young people, so that for every trainee who will be employed for an indefinite period of time after the traineeship, his employer shall be exempt from payment of contributions for two years. This also follows our pre-election programme to allow for the early transition from education to employment. At the debate of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons last week, we heard many opinions from young people, but also from those who supported the law. Unfortunately, there is a bitter taste that some youth organisations have acted politically, but we have found that some have not had a mandate to defend such a position. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 11. 12. 2014 took note of the issue of traineeships and adopted the view that volunteer traineeships are not supported. Dearly beloved, our knowledge in this country will never be better. The main principle of the government is knowledge, study, analysis. When this is gone, we go to quantitative analysis, qualitative analysis. And when that's gone, let's make an expert group. That's what it looks like. Of course, we will support our marriage, as we have also obtained many answers from ministries that show that the law is based on real data. However, if you reject the bill in the coalition, we propose that Minister Anja Kopač Dark carry out her work on a voluntary basis, because in two and a half years she has done literally nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. All of you, welcome! Despite the fact that the decision-making process on this bill is concluded in the home labour body, where the members of the law have not been confirmed and therefore Members and Members will not vote on the content of the law, it is only right to say more about this subject in plenary. This coalition and the Government have not remained indifferent to the plight of young people who, in some professions, are required to carry out a professional examination, but which means entering the labour market, do not get it, and not to those who, if we call it that, are able to do so, because in most cases they perform it under abusive conditions by employers. The government itself has already approached the implementation of a coalition contract, in which we have declared unpaid practices and traineeships by coalition partners unacceptable. The Government’s conclusions of 11 December 2014 are clear and concrete in order to eliminate volunteer traineeships. It is true, however, that the implementation of some of these decisions has not taken place, since the competent departments have not yet prepared amendments to the sectoral laws to be prepared in view of the need for compulsory traineeships to carry out their own work. Our Group of Members, namely Desus, considered that the situation in the field of the implementation of the Youth Forces traineeships was a pressing issue and that the current regime was not appropriate throughout the course of this proposal, as well as the preliminary proposal of the Law on Labour Relations, which was essentially trying to regulate the same subject. In Desus, we are committed to regulating the area. We also recognize that the mere abolition of volunteering or traineeships, which practically requires recognition of education through a post-training examination, is not an integrated solution. However, we are not and do not oppose the very purpose of this law. However, we want to see that the field of traineeship in the future is stable in the long term in terms of financial resources, that it is regulated on the basis of the classical needs, requirements and minimum standards arising from the educational process and the needs of employers, and not least that our traineeship arrangements are also internationally comparable. In the Desus Group, we therefore assessed that the best solution at a given time is to withdraw the law. At the same time, on 12 March, we supported the decision to give the Government three months' time to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of traineeships, which should also be the basis for future system regulation. In view of the rejection of the draft law last Friday on the home working body, in the sense that this law is not appropriate for adoption, as it is not built on a substantive analysis, let me once again allow myself to call on the Government to seriously approach the preparation of professionally justified grounds, taking into account the specificity of each particular area, for the preparation of concrete proposals for solutions in this area, and I hope that we will have an appropriate proposal for legislation in the early autumn already in the parliamentary benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u23	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! The procedure for the adoption of the law on traineeship measures has been completed in the home labour body. In the first reading of the bill, we have expressed our support in principle, but through the parliamentary procedure and the warnings of youth organisations it has proved that the solution envisaged is not optimal and could cause even more inconvenience and worsen the already bad situation of young people in the labour market. In the Group of Social Democrats, we still believe that the volunteer traineeship is an anomaly that needs to be eliminated, but we cannot with our heads through the wall and we must leave the door locked where volunteer traineeships cannot be avoided because of the specific area. The situation in the field of traineeships is worrying and extremely serious, but it is certainly not the responsibility of only one ministry to remedy this. We therefore support the decision we have adopted on the working body, which requires the Government to prepare within three months an analysis of the situation and the proposals for solutions that the competent ministries will have to implement into all those sectoral laws that regulate this topic. In this spirit and in the good faith that we are not causing further harm to young people, it was our decision not to support the work body of the articles of the law. But that doesn't mean we agree to the status quo. We demand amendments to the sectoral laws, which, inter alia, should define where the traineeship is needed and how long it should last. The education system and the economy must also recognise the common interest. The education system must meet the needs of the economy and the economy must play an active role in the education process of staff also in providing material conditions. This would actually enable young people to learn and implement their knowledge in practice and thus facilitate the transition to employment. At the moment, however, training for young people instead of providing the necessary social security for the transition to permanent forms of work is denying them their dignity and forcing them into a vicious cycle of exploitation. For many employers, traineeships are still simply a cheap or free labor force. As we say, we have not changed the position and opinions we have with regard to traineeships in our Group of Members. The Minister has our full support in handling this problem. Our support will be given to all ministers in whose departments it has been found that the anomaly is such that it requires action. To renounce dignity and learn creative survival through the system, we will no longer land. We must let young people know that unfair practices are unacceptable. Preparation is a work that contributes added value to the employer and therefore has value and must also be paid fairly. Although the procedure for adopting the law of the opposition party will not continue, this does not mean that we will not intervene in this matter. We expect that appropriate solutions that will insure young people will be adopted and implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u25	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Miha Kordish is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we supported the motion to withdraw. If we passed the law, as proposed by the SDS, there would be more harm than good from it. Today, we all populistly agree that unpaid traineeships are unacceptable, but it is difficult to recognize the simple fact that if we did only to stop volunteering, we would get the worst of the two worlds — no traineeship. I am afraid that the proposaler will have many initiatives in this mandate, which will be fair at the first ball, and will in fact mean playing with people in distress, which is undoubtedly the case for future workers who are unable to pass a professional examination. At the last minute, the government withdrew the amendments to avoid any responsibility for organising traineeships in the public sector. Are we really going to let the government get away with it so easily? The proposal she brought to the table is scandalous. We all know that the solution must impose upon the Government to determine the number of compulsory traineeships in the public sector and provide means of execution. The government wanted to remove every trace of this obligation from the law and completely removed the traineeship strategy. People at the Ministry of Labour who had probably done paid training themselves would now simply ban volunteering but would not provide any funds to carry out paid traineeships. It is already clear in advance what would have happened in this case, because we have already seen this in the case of social work. The coalition first prohibits volunteering in all public institutions, but at the same time does not allocate any additional resources to these public institutions for the employment of trainees. Even if such an institution had funds by chance, it is obliged by law to reduce the number of employees by 1% each year. So, he can't get any extra employment, because it's clear that he can't replace an expert who's retired with a student who's just graduated. I am pleased that the representative of the Ministry of Labour at the last meeting only acknowledged the situation in the field of social work. If I refresh everyone's memory. "The project Promoting employment of first-time job seekers in the field of social protection since March 2013 has no longer been financed." As a result: "Since April 2013, only six trainees have started training according to the Social Chamber of Slovenia." For comparison: the previous years were 150, 200 or more. The public officials of the Ministry of Labour have therefore not proposed amendments to enable paid traineeships to be carried out in the public sector. The government is responsible for this sector, not for some private companies. Why am I stressing this? After the government amendments, only the Law on Subsidies to Employers for the Employment of Trainee and for the Employment of the Employee who has just completed his internship with the employer has been left of the proposal for an indefinite period of time. More precisely, they drafted a law on subsidising private employers, capitalists. These two measures would not help public institutions if they were unable to pay even gross wages and were prohibited by law. Such behaviour by representatives of ministries is extremely irresponsible both for young workers and for the whole sectors. For the last time, all Members supported the conclusions of the Labour Committee in order to arrange assistance for people with special needs. But who will do this if young experts move abroad because they cannot train? Only subsidisation of private employers remains a policy of employment in this country. Obviously, no one is aware that the exemption means a hole in the social treasury. Last year, ZPIZ collected 55 million fewer contributions than in 2011, although last year’s growth was 2.6% and in 2011 only 0.6%. Forgiveness may be the ultimate measure in the regions at risk or in the case of particularly vulnerable job seekers, but it cannot be an all-gliharic release of capital. We call on the government to take into account the solutions that we have proposed in the United Left in the form of amendments, and to knock on the coalition Members' conscience to force the Government to start working for the public benefit.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Group of Members will table amendments to this agenda item. In view of the fact that we have just received a report just before the meeting of the National Assembly and that it has to pass between the second and third readings – in this case it is an act which is essentially in the second reading – at least the prescribed time, I suggest that, given the complexity of the matter and the fact that there has been no possibility so far, set a two-day deadline for the preparation of amendments. I think that's the correct proposal. In this way, when they need the expert services of the National Assembly — given that they have already had everything ready — they have only completed the debate — practically 8 or 10 hours to prepare a report, it is not unreasonable that the parliamentary group also requires time to prepare amendments in peace with the professional public, which we will engage in in this case. Given that this has followed these short procedures, we cannot prepare ourselves otherwise at this point in the agenda. I think it is right, Mr President, for you to ensure that this item of the agenda is dealt with in an appropriate, dignified way also for those who, in such a process that is very much under way, I will say, in a privileged way, in a short way, at any stage of time – simply allow us to prepare it. However, I refer to the time since the Group of Members, given that you gave us the report only this morning, was virtually unable to engage just before the meeting and could not prepare the amendments. And we can't do that in an hour or two, we need time, because, I told you, we'll also hire external experts, including the legal profession, so we'll do the edible amendments, not as it was prepared with the treatment on the working body. It takes two days to get this done, today, tomorrow, to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Actually, we haven't started the second point yet, but you're already proposing. What is clear at point 2 is that the amendments can be tabled until the end of the general debate, and will remain so. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legal referendum on the law on amendments and amendments to the law on legal relationship and social dimension. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a group of 23 Members and Members, first signed by Dr Mate T. Vatovci, for consideration by the assembly. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The laws shall apply for at least 24 hours between the second and third readings. I think this applies also to acts because the act is treated as a second one, and we now consider this as some kind of third treatment at the plenary session. I have asked you correctly to give us at this point of the agenda, given that so far there has been absolutely no possibility that there has been a hearing here at the night session, that we have received a report on this point just before the meeting of the National Assembly, simply set this deadline. I think that this is a normal proposal made by the opposition party so that we can prepare ourselves and propose solutions that we consider appropriate. I don't think the President of the National Assembly can just sort out the opposition party's proposal, especially because he has a basis in the Rules of Procedure to allow us to draw up the professional amendments for this decision you are proposing. Look, I think it's inappropriate that you don't even allow us to have time to prepare the amendments. However, as we will also engage civil society, legal professionals, as you may be, we need time, Mr President. It is not just about throwing something on the table and talking, but we want to make good proposals for solutions. The Rules of Procedure allow you to do that. You may suspend the session and decide when to proceed. However, I suggest that you give us the opportunity to participate in this item of the agenda and to table amendments. I don't think the president or the coalition majority can beat minorities like this. In this law and in this decision you are voicing the rights of a minority, but we, too, are in this case, as far as this part is concerned, a minority that opposes it, and you cannot have two standards for minorities. Mr President, I propose that, in accordance with your powers and also with the business basis, you decide on the time before the item is considered, because the debate on the amendments will also be about preparing these amendments. But we need a little more time, because we haven't had it at all so far to prepare these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Firstly, at an extraordinary meeting, no other business arrangements shall apply as regards the time limits for individual actions. Secondly, since Monday, the proposal for a decision has been in the procedure and since Monday, it has been time to draw up or obtain an expert opinion from elsewhere, and this would help you to draw up any amendments to the existing proposal for a decision. So I don't see why I would use my discretion on this – because article 73 of the Rules of Procedure allows me to interrupt meetings – because I simply don't understand your arguments and take them as much as I did what you did at the beginning. If this matter were truly sincere and did not initially try to keep the same procedural proposal on track, then I could also make a good informed assessment of this procedural proposal of yours. However, since it was clear from the outset that you are using procedural proposals simply to hold back the possibility that we can decide the matter at all, I will not accept this procedural proposal. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the proposal to Dr Mate T. Vatovac. It'll procedurally keep him coming up, but after I answer your procedural questions, he'll come up. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It was only at 9:33 that we received the government's opinion on the subject, and the time was 10:18, at this point in the agenda. But I refer to the second paragraph of Article 138, Mr President. "The third consideration shall be carried out first after 24 hours after receipt of the review referred to in Article 137(1) of this Rules of Procedure. The President shall decide when the third hearing shall take place immediately after the adoption of the decision referred to in the preceding paragraph." And you, Mr President, must enable us to deal with this point when this business condition is met. You put us on the table at 4:30 this morning. Only now, a few minutes ago, the government has sent its opinion and the condition of Article 138, paragraph 2, has not yet expired. And we want time, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to prepare for this agenda item of the amendment. What is stated in the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, cannot be interpreted differently than I have said. Article 282 can't overwhelm this solution either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u33	These business arrangements apply, as I said before, only to the regular meeting and to the second and third treatments under normal procedure. This time, however, we have an extraordinary meeting and these business arrangements are not in force in this case. This has always been the case in practice and will continue to do so. However, since the government's opinion has actually arrived, let's say, at the same time as the adoption of the agenda, this time I will really break the matter, but only for 45 minutes, so that you can get to know the government's opinion in detail. We'll pick it up at 11:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u34	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the motion for conclusions, Dr Mate T. Vatovac. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The President of the National Assembly ordered this interruption for two reasons. One of these was the possibility for others to read the opinion of the Government, which came to this point in the agenda after the start of the meeting of the National Assembly. The second was that he would tell us whether he would also give us the opportunity to organise an expert team and prepare amendments to the proposals for the conclusions that were adopted at night and this morning, just before the meeting, with this updated report also being forwarded. This opinion of the Government is so precise, because it is relatively extensive and refers to a number of decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is not easy to read. However, the Government’s opinion does not say anywhere about the position on the suspension of signature collection, but rather defines in the dictatorships only whether the referendum is admissible. That's what they say. It's determined by the decree of the National Assembly. The opinion of the Government does not refer in any way to the suspension of the collection of signatures. To this end, the Government has not been defined for obvious due diligence constitutional reasons and respect for the constitutional law. Secondly, as the President-in-Office, I would like to say, given that the Committee was finished at night, that we received just before the opening of the 14-page meeting of the amended proposal for a decision - you have adopted this yesterday, and it is practically in this proposal that the decision rejecting the collection of signatures, not as it was in the title, is the very legal wording relating to the constitutional decisions - to allow us, at least after the second paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, 24 hours, that we, who disagree with this proposal, prepare amendments to this proposal for a decision. These were the two reasons why the point was interrupted. First, I replied that the Government does not object to collecting signatures, because this does not have any anti-constitutional effect, but only at the time of the invitation to tender. And secondly, we need time to prepare ourselves to get professional support for preparing the amendments for this solution. I suggest you give us this time, Madam President. Since this was dealt with at night, we can't get an expert team together overnight.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you. Both initiatives have been essentially answered by the President, and I agree with his position. The time has been from Monday and can be held today until the end of the debate. Mr. Horvath, did you want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Representative of the Government! I also expect, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats, that we will get what our colleague Tanko has asked us to have an extra time. It's not simple matter. It's an extremely difficult matter. Last but not least, we don't really have any practice. Give us so much time to study things in peace, to write any amendments. I don't know why you're such a dick. I don't know why you're such a force. Things taken by force and force not to say aggression are never good. Let's take the time, please, and I really suggest – not least, we are all colleagues and colleagues responsible for the situation in this country, for the solutions that should be such as to make our people happy. Allow us to study in peace and also consult with our legal experts we have. We can't have them in five minutes. We need a little more time. We need to think. Last but not least, if I find out that this law actually interferes, it can interfere with a few tens, maybe 70 laws. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, I ask you not to act in such a way as to result in a democratic deficit, but to act in such a way that, in fact, in a democratic dialogue, we will judge the democratic atmosphere in peace professionally and then also decide in a way that I repeat that our people will be happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you. As has already been said, it is time to prepare the amendments by the end of the debate and it has also been since Monday. What do you want procedurally, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Madam President, what you have just said has not been the time since Monday. At half past nine, you have provided us with a complementary proposal in which you have written down the solutions you have adopted at night, and we cannot prepare the amendments since Monday on this proposal you made this morning. Do you understand? You are the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and if anyone, then the technology of the National Assembly must be controlled by the President or Vice-President or the one who holds the meeting. You ask us to prepare the amendments for the agenda in half an hour before the meeting. It can't be! The second paragraph of Article 138 sets a 24-hour deadline for us to do so. And given that, Madam President, 11 days before the implementation of this item is due to expire on 15 days, I think that, on 6 or 7 April, it is enough time for this provision to be fulfilled, and for us, who are also a minority in the National Assembly, to be able to prepare expert solutions for what you have adopted at night. I expect the Presidents to respect the rules enshrined in the National Assembly and to be correct in stating by what time anything could be done. On what you accepted at night, we have the possibility of preparing amendments, but we cannot engage an expert team at two o'clock at night to prepare amendments to this proposal for the decision. You can't! I hope you have the same vats and the same criteria for all minorities, including the parliamentary minority in the National Assembly. Therefore, I suggest you give us these 24 hours to team up and prepare what is necessary for the amendments to be prepared and put in quality. Don't ask us to do something for the form, some amendment that's just an amendment and nothing else. If this is an important matter, follow the rules, follow the rules, give us time to prepare it. It has been duly pointed out on several occasions, in accordance with the rules of procedure under which the meeting should be held, and do so. Since the report's been prepared 24 hours, that's what we have to get through tomorrow to half past nine this time to get these things ready. And don't commit violence in the National Assembly, so that with a red cloth across your eyes, I don't know where, full. Stop! Because we have the right, too, and do not violate our rights under the rules of procedure. The meeting of the National Assembly shall be held in accordance with the rules of procedure, and you who hold the meeting must take care of it first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr Tanko, you made the same proposal for the fourth time and have already been answered, so I will not repeat the answer. Mr. Horvath, would you like to make some new procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u41	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My procedural proposal will be completely new. I believe it is difficult for you to decide on your own, so I propose the suspension and the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u42	Thank you. We've already had an interruption, so I'm not going to follow your proposal. I suggest we move on. Mr. Tanko, is it procedural again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, you have not answered with a single word why you do not order 24 hours, in accordance with Article 138(2) of the Rules of Procedure, from the receipt of the report of the working body. It's got to be. I don't expect any other benefit from you because you don't respect business regulations. I expect nothing more from you than that or an explanation why you do not wish to comply with the provisions of Article 138(2) of the Rules of Procedure. You have not given an answer to this question, nor are you the President of the National Assembly at this time. No one answers, you just point out that these are the same procedural proposals. Of course it's going! You haven't given any reasoned answer yet. None! And if you're a party that's committed to democracy, at least that's what the title says, then at least you should respect that. And given that there is still enough time to hold the sitting, 24 hours does not mean anything, because collecting signatures does not affect any constitutional rights and there will be no constitutional rights violations. None at all! If you tell me what constitutional rights will be violated, if you do not comply with the request or requirement referred to in Article 138(2), then we may discuss this. But don't say anything. The president's task is to comment on the procedural proposals we make in the National Assembly in an reasoned manner. If there is no argument, it is what you do, violence against the one who draws attention to the problem that proposes a solution, and nothing else. I think that by such a way of leading the National Assembly, as is the case in this mandate, we should simply stop. If the presidents are unable to explain their decisions in an reasoned manner, then they should leave the work to the one who is capable of doing so. It doesn't matter who it is, presidents, vice presidents or anyone else. Lady, under the second paragraph of Article 138, this simply belongs to us! This is not the President's will, this belongs to us. And if that belongs to us, then order me to meet you tomorrow at half past nine in the morning and we'll be moving on. Until then, we will be preparing the amendments for this agenda item, just like you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Thank you. Just a minute. I would just like to respond to the application of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. This Article shall not apply to this procedure. I don't think it's necessary to read the procedure laid down in Article 171. Here you go, fellow Vortovec, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Dear Chairman! The second paragraph of Article 138 is clear, and this time you have not responded to the claim under Article 138(2). The Rules of Procedure, respected colleagues and colleagues, are not only a written book but are provisions that we must respect, and in this case you do not respect these provisions and carry out literal violence, violence against this part of the Chamber. Article 138, second paragraph, the third paragraph shall be dealt with first after 24 hours after receipt of the review referred to in Article 137(1) of this Rules of Procedure. Next, the President shall decide when the third hearing shall take place, and so on. So, 24 hours. How long has it been now? For this reason, I propose that we stop the meeting, because literal violence against these provisions is being carried out. This is our sacred book, ladies and gentlemen, and if we do not respect this book, then it is better to relax. But you're lawyers, constitutional lawyers, and you understand what we're talking about. By not deceiving citizens and citizens by interpreting business regulations in your own way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u46	Thank you. I'll give you a procedural one, and then I'll answer the question. Here you are, Mr Tanko, once again on a procedural basis, I hope that there is another matter. [[advertising from the hall]] Once again, as I have already said, and as has already been said before me by the President, Article 138 does not apply to this procedure. But I'll read how it's used. The procedure for examining the draft act is laid down in Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is not equal to the examination of the draft laws. The procedure for examining the draft act shall be carried out at the same meeting. The first paragraph of this Article thus provides that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure governing the procedure for the second examination of the draft law shall apply mutatis mutandis to the procedure for the examination of draft acts. It has already been said that a general discussion of the draft act is held at the meeting of the assembly if, within 15 days of the award of the draft act, at least 10 Members are required to do so, or if the act is being considered at an extraordinary meeting, since this means that the 15-day deadline for the submission of the request has not yet expired. The debate and vote on the amendments follow, taking due account of the provisions for the second reading of the bill at the meeting of the assembly. After the hearing has been concluded, the assembly shall immediately proceed to the vote on the draft act in full. The first paragraph of Article 171 goes on to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to the harmonisation procedure, and the provisions of the third reading of the proposal of the law do not apply to the examination of the proposals of the acts. Mr. Tanko, do you still want procedural? Here you go, then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Look, ma'am, you can read these provisions, and they apply in the event that no amendments are announced. We have said in good time that we want to table amendments to this point, to this proposal for a decision, and that, for physical reasons, because of the way in which you did work in the coalition and you accepted this at the meeting at night, it was not possible to ensure, it is not possible to provide. And the National Assembly, if it wants to do its work properly, properly and also decently for all the parliamentary groups, must make this possible, because, because of what we propose, there will be no unconstitutionality, there will be no illegality and there will be no violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the proposal, and on the report, we need 24 hours of time, which is why the Rules of Procedure provide that we can prepare, organise and make a text. I don't think what you're doing is appropriate to carry out some kind of violence here, based on solutions that don't stand. I think that the President, the President or the President of the National Assembly should simply order this. This motion can also be put to the vote and you will reject it. But the fact that it is not even allowed to draw attention to the problem and that the leadership of the National Assembly, the Presidents do not even allow amendments to be tabled, which must obviously be true and correct and duly constitutionally justified, because you who have adopted these amendments have 14 pages of legal solutions and the Government has 8 pages of legal solutions. How can you now ask someone to prepare the solutions he received overnight on the table just before the meeting of the National Assembly? This security proposal is therefore Article 138(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know, any normal chairman would agree with this proposal, except for those who have a curtain in front of their eyes and only one goal in front of their eyes, it is said that something is being done regardless of the consequences, regardless of the consequences. This will not be a breach for anyone, but it will be possible for those who have additional proposals for this proposal to do so to do so. Otherwise, we can't invest anything, not anything that would be prepared from the point of view of the legal profession and the content. Saying some things that prevent the work of the opposition in the National Assembly, Madam President, is inappropriate. You're here to run procedures equally for everyone who's in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u48	Thank you. I reiterate that you have made the same proposal that has already been decided. You want a procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u49	The New Slovenia Group requires a 45-minute interruption, given that you do not serve us or wish to comply with the rules of procedure and give us 24 hours of time to properly prepare the amendments to the proposal for a decision. As we all know, today at half past nine we received the government's opinion and we did not have enough time to respond professionally. I ask that, during this time of interruptions, you also study the rules of procedure, and we too, to better prepare ourselves for how we will proceed. So, I'm calling for a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u50	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, termination shall be ordered before the decision is taken. We haven't gotten there yet because we haven't even started to discuss it yet. So I propose, in accordance with everything already said about the Rules of Procedure, that we proceed with the procedure. I now give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the draft decision, Dr Mate T. Vatovac. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not going to make any more procedural, because he was always the same proposal. Dr. T. Vatovec, please. [[advertising from the hall]] First Dr. T. Vatovec, then we'll proceed with the procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] If you make the same proposal again, I will remind you and then I will no longer give you a procedural proposal. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. What we are monitoring here today is an explicit example of a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. President-in-Office, I have observed the President's action at this meeting, in the event of an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure. For each procedural proposal, you look at your professional co-worker and then respond to procedural proposals on this basis. I therefore have a procedural proposal that, given that you do not know as well as the President of the National Assembly as you do, this meeting should be suspended until the President of the National Assembly has time to hold this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, because I think that Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers do not deserve to read individual articles and suggestions from the professional service, but I want the President of the National Assembly who can conduct this meeting in a sovereign manner. That's why I suggest we stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Once again, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, the period may be fixed before the decision is taken. We haven't come to a decision yet. The amendments may be tabled throughout the general debate, so that, given the duration of this meeting, the meeting will be a long one and all may submit amendments. I suggest we finish the procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] On schedule, I now hold a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your confidence, I know the rules of procedure. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I'm just explaining the rules of procedure in the course of my conduct, and I'm not going to let that happen. Mr. Han, what will be the procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. With regard to the conduct of this meeting of the National Assembly. It is an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure by New Slovenia and by the SDS. I'll tell you what's plastic. They had 35,000 signatures at 7:00 a.m., thank you. They need 5,000 more signatures to have 40,000 of them, to be able to file them, to blur all things out and that this decision, which we adopted on the committee yesterday, will be rejected. [[advertising from the hall]] They need a few thousand more signatures, so they delay and exploit the rules of procedure for this purpose. Therefore, I propose, Madam Vice-President – Logar, keep quiet – that we proceed with the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Dear colleagues and colleagues, however, the topic that we are dealing with today is serious, and it is not right for us to give the public the opinion that we are creating today. The rules of procedure are clear. Before me, I was told by the President of the National Assembly, and I repeated them myself. For this reason, I will no longer allow the abuse of the rules of procedure. In accordance with the rules of procedure of the President-in-Office of the interpreters' Rules of Procedure, we are now continuing with the proposal to be further explained by the motioner, Dr Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u55	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On 3 March 2015, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, eliminating the systematic discrimination of same-sex persons and thus the unconstitutional state of affairs in the Republic of Slovenia. The adoption of this law is far too late and its adoption is the result of decades of debate, fighting and striving for equality and fundamental human rights. The new law was therefore adopted for one very reason, and this is to eliminate the unconstitutional state of systemic discrimination on the basis of personal circumstances. Article 14 of the Constitution, which obviously cannot be stopped from quoting, clearly states: Everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material state, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal situation. Unquestionably, this personal situation includes sexual orientation. The Constitutional Court has also found, in two decisions, the unconstitutional nature of the amendment to the law in the only possible way, and this is a systemic way, namely that the same relationship is dealt with in a substantive manner in the same way. According to the Constitutional Court, same-sex and diversified partners are "in the essential same factual and legal basis of the community. Any distinction in the legal regime of both communities, including the legal consequences of these communities, is not based on any real, non-personal, different circumstances, but on sexual orientation. In cases of same-sex and diversified partners, the essential feature of the relationship is the stable connection of two people close to each other, helping each other and supporting each other." In view of the fact that this is the same situation, any distinction should be regarded as discrimination in the light of personal circumstances. The novel therefore eliminates discrimination and non-constitution in the field of human rights. Since the amendment of the law was adopted in order to eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights, the National Assembly cannot today do anything but find that the initiative to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations relates to a law which, in accordance with the fourth indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution, is not permitted to call for a referendum. This decision will prevent the National Assembly from allowing the majority to decide on the human rights of minorities. Let me briefly restorate how we came to this session when this assembly will have to take a step back to the defence of human rights. At its 5th regular meeting on 3 March 2015, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted, by a large majority, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia also supported the amendment of the law, for the first time unanimously with the support of the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, and then rejected the proposal of the procrastination veto with a large majority of its support. Dear Members, there is no doubt about this law that the initiators of the referendum would like to present. Let me now turn to the legal chronology that exists as the basis for this decision, which we are proposing today. On 24 May 2013, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Constitutional Act amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 90, as amended, provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be drawn up on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. The second section of the Constitutional Act, in the second paragraph, provides that, pending the harmonisation of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the provisions of Article 1 of this Constitutional Law shall apply in a meaningful application of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative directly and that, pending the harmonisation of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in a dispute between the proposer of the referendum and the National Assembly rejecting the call for a referendum on law. In accordance with the provisions of Article 21, paragraph 2, of the ZRLI, the National Assembly may adopt a decision establishing that the subject of the referendum initiative is the law referred to in Article 90(2) of the Constitution at the time of the collection of signatures in support of the referendum requirement. The Constitutional Court has also ruled on the question whether the National Assembly should wait for its decision to apply for a referendum. In 1995, it assessed the admissibility of the invitation to tender for a referendum on the adoption of a law on the confiscation of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia obtained under Article 40 of the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision also referred to the question whether the National Assembly may decide on a request for a constitutionality of the content of the request for a referendum at the time of the conclusion of the signatures. In point 7 of that decision, the Constitutional Court stated: "As the President of the National Assembly sets a time limit for collecting signatures, citizens are invited to determine whether they are for the content of the request. This raises the question for all citizens who have the right to vote. The question raised at this stage of the procedure for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum is exactly the same as the question raised at the referendum if the necessary support was obtained. The same target population is asked in both first and second cases. Therefore, the question arises whether it is only because the collection of signatures at this stage of the procedure does not yet have the nature of the requirement within the meaning of Article 12 of the ZRLI, but it is already a substantive requirement that needs only the support of the electorate, that this becomes formal if it is already obvious in this situation that the same target population will not be allowed to raise the issue later. The Constitutional Court considers that such an interpretation of the law in a democratic and legal state is inadmissible." Today, we have the exact same case in this regard, with the law still changing in the meantime, the constitution has changed. We now also have a clear provision in the constitution that states which laws the referendum is inadmissible to be declared. It follows from all this that, in the event that the initiative or request for a referendum relates to the law referred to in Article 90(2) of the Constitution, the General Assembly finds that the referendum is not admissible to be tendered at the time of the voter's signatures to support the request for a referendum. Let us move on to the most important arguments why this decision must be adopted. Firstly, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was adopted to eliminate discrimination against same-sex couples. I think that's why she got that kind of support in this national council. The Constitutional Court found in its two decisions, Decision No 425/06-10 and Decision No 212/10, that, in the case of same-sex partners and diversified partners, the stability of the two persons who are close to each other is essential and mutually supportive, and that the content is the same factual situation in which two people are linked together, with their relatively lasting relationship essentially defining their emotional, moral, spiritual and sexual relationship on the common path of life. The new law thus aligns, in accordance with the content of both decisions of the Constitutional Court, the same couple and diversified couples in all rights and obligations. By adopting the amendment, the National Assembly therefore fulfils the obligation imposed by the cited decision of the Constitutional Court, since, following the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the same-sex partnership is equated with a variety of rights and obligations. This is the basis in constitutionally established anti-constitutions. There are, of course, other unconstitutionalities that have not yet been established but exist in Slovenian legislation. These unconstitutionalities stem exactly from the definition of marriage and the extra-marital community, and here they relate to at least 70, if not more laws. These laws relate to the distribution of human rights and also to the definition of marriage. That is why the law on marriage has been amended, because in this way we systematically eliminate violations of human rights. In addition to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the adoption of the amendment eliminates systemic discrimination against same-sex couples. By changing the definition of marriage, same-sex couples will receive the same treatment and their situation will be equal in all rights and obligations, not only formally but also symbolically. Indeed, we cannot talk about equalizing a certain number of rights and not all rights. If I try to take a step further and show a little more plastic, what is the situation today between same-sex couples and what problems they face, and these are far from symbolic, but purely everyday use and everyday life. The laws relating to the definition of marriage and conferring rights on the basis of the definition of marriage are numerous. I'm just going to point out a few of these so you can imagine what's going on. The first is the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. The same-sex couples in the current regime do not have the possibility of insurance for a family member, they do not have the possibility of compensation for the care of a family member, because the same-sex partner is not treated as a family member. The second law is the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. Also, there's no way a widow's pension is possible. The same-sex partner or partner who dies today is not entitled to a widow's pension. Why? Why don't we give him that right? We also have a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. A person who is in prison and has an equal partner or partner has no right to visit him as a family member. Why not? The Bond Code also provides in its decisions for the possibility of compensation in the event of death or serious disability for a spouse or an extramarital partner. The same sexes are still excluded from this provision. Housing law — same - sex partners cannot rent an apartment after a deceased partner. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army – this law gives rise to the rights of this integrated care belonging to the family members of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. This law limits these rights only to those in registered same-sex partnerships. Why not grant these rights to all same-sex couples? I think we could list these cases as well. The same-sex community has in some way consistently stressed what problems they face in everyday life, while in everyday affairs, which are self-evident, which we do not actually perceive as any obstacle or procedure, they constantly stop in these procedures because they run into these obstacles. In conclusion, I would just like to reiterate that if we do not vote on this decision today, if we allow the referendum, we will simply allow that, if so decided, the majority will decide on the rights of the minority. But these rights should be enjoyed by all, regardless of personal circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u56	Thank you. I assume, Mr. Tanko, you want procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u57	Yes, I want procedural, I want procedural. The President-in-Office, usually when a procedural, procedural proposal is made, shall decide on the procedural proposal by a vote. This has been the custom in this National Assembly until now. In this reference to the National Assembly, when you took over the leadership of the State and also the National Assembly, somehow more muscular, this is no longer the case. It is now up to the President of the National Assembly to decide whether or not to vote on the motion. That's one problem. The second problem raised by the President is that you refer to Rule 282 of the Rules of Procedure. This provision, the first paragraph of this Rule of the Rules of Procedure, shall apply to the President only where there is no argument to explain the procedural proposals. This is a way out of the presidency. The chair is to give an reasoned explanation on what we are proposing on procedural proposals in the National Assembly. If you, who have been chosen from the coalition to conduct the meetings of the National Assembly, do not have the necessary skills, business skills, then I suggest you take a course in the National Assembly and take a mini-expert examination of the use of the Rules of Procedure and the management of the meetings. This is because what you are doing now to delete just like this ad hoc over all the procedural proposals made by members of the opposition and not even put to the vote is not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Decisions are taken by the National Assembly, you're the only one who's sitting, ma'am. And if I make a procedural proposal that requires a decision, you are obliged to put it to the vote. The President of the National Assembly, too, is treated equally. So I suggest you learn a little bit about the use of the Rules of Procedure. Also, the expert services of the National Assembly, which help guide the meeting, see that they give very bad instructions and direct the chairman in a direction where there is no basis. Procedural proposals need to be voted on. I see you've been avoiding things like this for a long time. Many things might have been done much earlier than they were. The application of Rule 282 of the Rules of Procedure to two of the Rules of Procedure is a sign that those who hold the meeting shall not be able to manage the Rules of Procedure or to manage the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Thank you. I think that I, as well as my predecessor, as he presided over the meeting, have also read the articles on which I leaned on my decisions. I suggest we move on. The proposal for a decision has been examined [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] You're just using your suggestions! Excuse me, the proposals you have tabled can only be put to the vote on what is the basis of the Rules of Procedure. There was no basis for these proposals in the Rules of Procedure. I have read the opinion, as the President has also said before me, you are making the same proposal all the time. And please don't abuse the rules of procedure anymore. We're moving on. [[advertising from the hall]] I suggest we face it substantively, not procedurally. I next give the floor to the presentation of the report of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as the working body of the President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u60	They're messing with the trailers. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u62	I'm sorry, if you make the same proposal again, I'll give you a reminder. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for the floor. I would like with my procedural proposal to lower the temperature a little bit, and I ask you kindly to submit all your authority – at the moment you are chairing the meeting of the Slovenian National Assembly – and to make the maximum efforts of yours, and I may now say something sinful, not perhaps strictly in the rules of procedure, but to make matters between us, that is, between the vast majority of us, the so-called rainbow coalition, and the minority in the National Assembly – less than one third of us, who are asking that at least one of our trifles also be taken into account. In front of our country, Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues and colleagues, there are key tasks. People in our country live badly. Contribut, Madam Vice-President, by your conduct, by what we ask of you, to prevent even higher walls from being built between us. Contribute, please, to make these walls fall, so that we can take key solutions for our people here in the temple of democracy, so that they will be happy and not continue to run away, especially young people, from this country. I ask you very much to establish your authority, morally, and that you are the Vice-President, that you are the President, that this parliamentary dialogue be established at a democratic and cultural level. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Thank you. I agree that we continue at a democratic and cultural level. That is why we also have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to use it, and we continue to do so. Please proceed on a procedural basis, but I would like to point out that you are not making the same proposal again as Mr Horvath did.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Thank you, Vice President. Look, what we want with procedural questions is that you respect the rules of procedure. To respect the rules of procedure, the spirit and the principles and articles of the Rules of Procedure. Before your client colleague misused the procedural question, you did not comply with this Rules of Procedure. When I wanted to ask a procedural question, you didn't want to give me your word. If you want a minority in the National Assembly to comply with the Rules of Procedure, you must first take it into account as chairman. And if you are already concluding a coalition with Jankovic in Ljubljana, and you are accepting budgets without business regulations, and so on, please, at least in the National Assembly respect documents which are a fundamental condition for democracy to develop in this country. Therefore, in accordance with Article 112, which states that the decisions on procedural matters also make a decision by the National Assembly, I would like to reiterate my proposal that the meeting of the National Assembly be chaired by the President of the National Assembly, who is also here and who has come to my previous exercise to suggest to you what you would like to say to me on my procedural question, to put this proposal to the vote and to vote that this meeting, which is very difficult, as you have already found out, is run by a competent person who knows the rules of procedure and who can decide from the head of this Rules of Procedure. Please, and in accordance with Article 112, I request that you put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u66	Thank you. Now I'm going to say that I appreciate your opinion. You've misused the rules of procedure. I have also pointed out to previous procedural debaters that they have misused the rules of procedure, so I suggest that we proceed. Mr Uroš Prikl, President, has the floor to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u67	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Let me briefly present the report of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which, at its 10th urgent meeting yesterday as a working mother, considered the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, submitted by the Group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Mate T. Vatovec, to the Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The members and members of the committee received all the necessary material within the time limit, including the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda, with the first-signed Head of the SDS Group, and the response of the President of the National Assembly in this regard. Representatives and representatives of the proposer of the draft decision attended the meetings of the Committee, with the first-signed Dr. Vatovec, the representative of the Government and representatives of our Legislative and Legal Service. Initially, chronology regarding the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was presented briefly. At its 5th regular session, the National Assembly adopted a law amending and supplementing this law. Ten. 3. A notice of the initiative has been submitted to the electorate and the electorate to apply for the invitation to tender for a subsequent referendum on this law. The President of the National Assembly has laid down that the first day is the deadline for collecting the signatures of the electorates and voters on Monday, 23. Three, last day, 35th day, and 26th. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Day 23. 3. In accordance with Article 88 of the Constitution and Article 19 of the Law on Members and Article 112 and Article 169a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of Members and Members submitted to the Committee a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the said law. In an introductory supplementary explanation at the meeting of the Committee, the president of the motioners, Dr Matthew T. Vatovec, presented the key points of the proposal for a decision. He stressed in particular that the novel ZZD was adopted to eliminate discrimination against same-sex couples, which was found by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in two decisions, one in 2009 and one in 2013. In accordance with the content of the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, the novelties of the CFSP align the same and diversified couples in all rights and obligations. She also presented her position as a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, i.e. from the point of view of the competence of that service. The representative of the Government, Mrs Vuk, said that the Government had not yet accepted, until yesterday I am speaking, my opinion and that it will do so by the beginning of today's meeting of the National Assembly, which you have also heard in the beginning and probably also received the opinion of the Government on your parliamentary bench. A longer discussion followed, in which the proponents of the proposal stressed unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionalities. The opponents of the proposal, however, pointed out that the CFSP had never been anti-constitutional, and therefore that the applicants' comments on the decision to abolish the anti-constitution were not to hold. They also defended the view that it was necessary to allow signatures to be collected for the referendum. As it is said, the debate, at times even very emotional, lasted for quite some time, and at the end of the discussion the Committee adopted, pursuant to Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the following: firstly, the amendment to point 1 or the first section of the decision, secondly, the amendment to point 2 or second section of the decision, and thirdly, also the amendment to the title itself. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on and adopted a proposal for a decision in its entirety. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated proposal for a decision, including the amendments I have previously tabled, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The updated proposal for a decision is an integral part of the report that you have received on your parliamentary bench or in your knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u68	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not allow for different treatment on the basis of sexual orientation, but on the contrary. When preparing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Ombudsman was aware of the importance or recognized the circumstances of sexual orientation and specifically defined the issue. Sexual orientation is one of the circumstances set out in Article 14 of the Constitution, which stipulates that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed equal human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, birth, education, social status, disability or any other personal situation. Sexual orientation is one of the personal circumstances in which the state must not, in particular, tolerate discrimination or advocate equality. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is bound by Article 14 of the Constitution, discrimination and personal circumstances of sexual orientation in its decision of 2. Seven. 2009 gave an important systemic explanation, so I will quote it. "In view of all these, in the essential same factual and legal basis of the living communities, both a registered same-sex community and a community between a woman and a man, it turns out that the distinction in the regime of succession is based not on some real, non-personal different circumstances, but on sexual orientation. However, sexual orientation, although not explicitly stated, is undoubtedly one of the personal circumstances referred to in Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Constitution. It is a personal property that has a significant impact on an individual’s life, and it is accompanied by circumstances such as race, sex, birth, and whole life. The European Court of Human Rights also understands sexual orientation as a circumstance on the basis of which distinction is prohibited, although it is not among the explicitly mentioned circumstances in Article 14 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms." The Constitutional Court has equated the community of two persons of the same sex in the field of inheritance with the marriage or extra-legal community of two persons of different sexes, in view of the finding that they are essential to the same factual and legal basis of the community and that the distinction in the legal order of both communities, including legal consequences, is based on sexual orientation. In the explanatory memorandum, the Constitutional Court also stated that unregistered same-sex partnerships are in fact separated from registered ones only in the absence of a formal partnership with a competent national authority, where the same applies to the separation between the non-legislative community and the marriage. Otherwise, in both types of same-sex partner communities, the content is the same as the actual situation. As the Constitutional Court itself has stated, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Article 8 also provides for the right to family life, and Article 14 provides that the enjoyment of the rights and freedoms set out in this Convention shall be guaranteed to all persons irrespective of any personal circumstances. The European Court of Human Rights has also adopted the view that a stable same-sex partnership is part of the concept of family life. The recent amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations allows individuals and individuals, irrespective of their sexual orientation, to enter into a marriage and to recognise the existence of an extramarital relationship and to establish a family life, without prejudice to the established relationship or making it difficult for other individuals and individuals to establish it. In view of the fact that in several judgments the Constitutional Court has held that there are no legitimate reasons for the distinction between sex and sex, it is necessary to specifically regulate in each legal area the uniform legal consequences as are applicable to spouses, including those of the same sex. This last amendment of the CFSP provides for the adoption, in accordance with the constitutional principle of the rule of law, of a regime which is systemic and uniform and not partial as so far as is concerned, of legal relations between two persons in a legally recognised community. With regard to the initiative itself, the Government also stresses that the request for a referendum encourages inequality on the basis of sexual orientation and could encourage the spread of intolerance. On the basis of that explanation, the opinion of the RS Government is that the call for a legislative referendum on the amendment of the CFSP would be inconsistent with the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u70	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Much has already been said, in fact, about the permissibility of the item on the agenda itself, which we are discussing here today. In the Alliance, we ask ourselves whether the opponents of the adopted Law on Marriage and Family Relations really oppose the very process of addressing the decision rejecting the invitation to a legislative referendum or whether it is just a matter of looking for hair in the egg because of the strong opposition to the content of the law itself. Let me remind you, with the law we are reintroducing the rights of same-sex couples who do not have or have not. We are pleased that the moment has only come when after 24 years we can give people rights in this modern Slovenia, which belong to them under the Constitution itself. We listened to the different positions of civil society representatives who spoke for and against this bill at the time of the consideration of the draft law. There was much to hear that the marriage changes because of a handful of people and how it all makes little sense because of the small number. In the Alliance, we will always be clear and loud when there is talk about violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, whether they are violations of five, fifty or thousands of people. It doesn't matter if we solve or eliminate violations of the human rights and freedoms of one person or of thousands of people. The Constitution is perfectly clear here, as is clear in the work concerning the admissibility of the referendum itself. In the Alliance, we are aware that in representative or parliamentary democracy, the legislative authority is limited by direct exercise of power by the people as sovereign authorities. The latter also defines the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as a key mechanism for the direct exercise of power, which states: "In Slovenia, the people have authority. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial." The most important form of direct democracy is the legislative decision-making of the people or the legislative referendum — article 90 of the Constitution. The Institute of the Referendum represents the right of the people to take a final decision on the rejection of a law adopted by the National Assembly. The following should be added to this. If we truly respect the constitutional principle of the exercise of power, everyone sitting here today should be aware that the authority of the people as sovereign is not unlimited, that direct democracy is also limited, namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia itself. In spring 2013, the National Assembly amended the 90th Article of the Constitution, which regulates the legislative referendum. Our constitutional regulation of the prohibition of laws that cannot be implemented by referendum decision until then has not provided for, despite the fact that the restrictions in foreign legal systems are known. They are known, for example, in Italy, Ireland, Denmark and could also be listed. Therefore, it was often necessary for the Constitutional Court to decide on the constitutional admissibility of the invitation to a legislative referendum, and the decisions taken by the court then sparked controversy in the professional and lay public. The new regulation is intended to avoid this, so it sets out clearer criteria, anchors to which the Constitutional Court can rely when assessing the admissibility of the referendum. The most important anchor is the restriction on laws that eliminate anti-constitution in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitution. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the proposed restrictions on the admissibility of the referendum call do not preclude any referendum decision. In spite of the explicit provisions prohibiting the referendum, the Constitutional Court will also have jurisdiction in the future in a dispute between the referee and the National Assembly, which would reject the call for a referendum on an individual law. As has already been said, by amending Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the burden of deciding on the admissibility of the referendum has been transferred to the National Assembly. It seems that some behind the parliamentary benches this change is still unclear, but this is the core of the constitutional change. In the Alliance, we are convinced that the National Assembly must determine the inadmissibility of the referendum as soon as possible. The adoption of such a decision shall, on the basis of the reasonable application of the fourth paragraph of Article 21, suspend the collection of signatures, which shall be possible once again only if the initiators of the referendum, as the only legally qualified complainants, are successful before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the only way to protect both the interests of the initiators of the referendum on the one hand and the interests of the National Assembly as legislator on the other. Such conduct is also the only responsible conduct of the National Assembly in the light of the attitude towards the electorate and the electorate actually elected or given a mandate. The dilemma, when it is the right time to decide on the admissibility of the referendum, will not be discussed for too long. Let me mention only the 1995 constitutional decision prohibiting the invitation to refer to the so-called deleted law. Among other things, it has been stated that the decision of the Constitutional Court whether the content of the request for a legislative procedure is contrary to the Constitution is possible at the stage of the collection of signatures. If we look through history, we can see that human rights have always been resolved very slowly, very painful, somewhere even very bloody, and it took many years for people to come to those fundamental, fundamental human rights. In the past, the question was whether blacks would ever get the same rights as whites. Today, this issue is more or less clear, although many countries are still fighting for their fundamental rights. Today, movies and books that are incomprehensible to many people serve as a reminder and a memory that we must no longer do. Let me just give you a few examples. If we used to have kids and punks, there's no more discussion and dilemma about the bastards today. If we have ever talked about a general electoral right that only men had, today a woman's electoral right is something self-evident. Even more so, when it was introduced, they were afraid that changes would take place in the system, in the mind, and in many other ways, before a woman’s electoral rights came to light. In other words, we will have to acknowledge certain mistakes that have been made in the past. And to finish the thought. The law doesn't force anyone's way of life, no one. Each one chooses his own way of life, and is no more beautiful than living in a country that simply lets a person live as he thinks is the right thing to do, and thus, of course, does not endanger others. In the Alliance, we reiterate that same-sex couples do not endanger anyone because they are being reported or because they love each other, and they only want to have the same rights as we do. Let them live free. That we are all equal before the law, we have heard several times, but however, opponents of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations do not understand this equality as they should or should, as provided for in Article 14 of the Slovenian Constitution. Only by consistent respect for this principle and by not imposing our way of life on each other will we be able to make progress as a society and, above all, to become more patient. The definition of discrimination is quite clear and says this: discrimination occurs when individuals or groups of people are treated less favourably than other persons in a comparable position only because they belong or appear to belong to a particular group or category of people. Today I will end up with Einstein, who said what a sad time it's easier to break an atom than a prejudice. Of course, we will support today's decision in the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u72	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u73	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! Members of the Modern Centre Party have supported changes to the law from the very beginning and we support them today, because they establish the fundamental principle of our Constitution, namely equality of everyone before the law regardless of his personal circumstances. At this point, we are facing a referendum, which is also one of the fundamental human rights enshrined in the Constitution and which can only be restricted by the right of the other, or if we have a constitutionally permissible objective to do so. And this constitutionally permissible objective is enshrined in Article 90 of the Constitution, which states that the referendum is not allowed to be negotiated on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. In a specific case, it is an application of Article 14 of the Constitution which provides for equality of rights and obligations for everyone before the law irrespective of their personal circumstances. In fact, the adoption of the constitutional law created a basis for us to reject this call and, at the same time, imposed on the legislator to regulate the legal relations in the Referendum Act and the People's Initiative. However, since the legislator has not yet settled this issue, we have raised some questions in the Group of Members, especially when and how we can limit this right to a referendum, especially because we are aware that this is a sensitive issue. We have responded to them with amendments to the Committee, and this updated proposal for a decision before us today clearly underlines the competence of the National Assembly to reject the call for a referendum, as well as an reasoned explanation of why we can interfere with the signing phase. Why do we believe that the invitation to referendum under this law is inadmissible? Because it creates equality for everyone before the law, regardless of his personal circumstances, as I said. What does that even mean? It means that men and women have exactly the same rights and obligations before marriage and that they will have the same rights, equal rights and obligations, even if they have a marriage relationship with the same sex or with a person of different sex, which is considered a special circumstance. And in this way they will acquire the rights arising from the marriage from this status. The new law eliminates inequality and discrimination and recognises the emergence of mutual legal rights and obligations of same-sex partners and the rights arising from this status. We wish that the majority of the referendum would not decide on the rights of a minority, to conclude this debate and to enforce the law. Members of the SMC Group will, of course, support the proposed decision, because we believe that the purpose of the law is to ensure that civilisation standards that actually live in life are given legal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u74	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. In the SDS Group, we will object to the decision rejecting the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations for several reasons. The first reason is the indiscretion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide and prohibit the collection of signatures in accordance with the amendments to the Constitution and the second reason is that the proposal to reject the referendum is not substantively justified. The National Assembly cannot reject the referendum, nor should it decide to do so, as the procedural conditions laid down by the constitutional law that changed the regulation of the legislative referendum have not yet been met. The constitutional law clearly states that the National Assembly may refuse the referendum, which means that it must first decide on the referendum. The invitation to tender may, however, be decided only when a request for a referendum has been submitted. Thus, the Constitutional Law provided for a clear delimitation when the National Assembly was even procedurally legitimate in order to decide on the prohibition of a referendum, namely the rejection of the decision to call for a referendum. The Constitutional Law therefore provides that Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative shall now apply, including the legal basis for the retention of signatures, so that the Constitutional Court decides in a dispute between the drafter of the referendum and the National Assembly rejecting the call for a referendum, but does not require a constitutional review of the content of the referendum requirement or of the initiative as it has been before. Well, if I'm banalizing the case. By a decision made by the applicant, we would like to reject something that does not exist at all. It's like, say, a couple bought a wheelchair, and a wife wouldn't even be pregnant. It's like buying a spare or a stash. We find it totally unacceptable to limit the democratic choice of voters and voters in the referendum to topics shared by the Slovenian public and to the content that the Slovenian public in much less radical form has already rejected at the referendum three years ago. With this, the so-called Left Coalition sets up an ideology on the revision of the marriage and the evaluation of the child's right to fatherhood and motherhood over the democratic right to decide the people at the referendum. The current referendum regime does not govern the automatic limitation of the referendum, but the restriction or prohibition of the referendum must always be decided by the political majority in the National Assembly and be held accountable. Notwithstanding the apparent abuse of this possibility to prevent a referendum, we would like to point out that the content of this prohibition is also substantively unfounded and constitutes a series of manipulations. After a change in the Constitution, a referendum may be refused only if the unconstitutionality of an arrangement has already been established by the Constitutional Court. This was explained by Mrs Maša Kociper, President of the Constitutional Commission at the time of the adoption of the constitutional law: "Among the provisions prohibiting or restricting referendum decision-making is also a provision which was examined on the basis of a proposal for a position by the expert commission and the Constitutional Commission. This is a provision that clearly restricts the decision-making of laws that abolish unconstitutionality. In this case, too, the practice of the National Assembly will have to insist strictly on the explanation given in the Constitutional Commission, so that only the articles proposed as non-constitutional may be amended in order to eliminate unconstitutionality, which were proposed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Any application of other content and related amendments to the other provisions of the law will be inadmissible, as this would certainly avoid a legislative referendum. Here too the practice of the Constitutional Court will be crucial." If I can sum it up. The referendum may be rejected in a constitutional manner only if the contradictions already established by the Constitutional Court are eliminated. Applicants shall state only two removals of the unconstitutional consequences already established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by Decisions 425/06 and 212/10. In both cases, however, there is a finding of anti-constitutionality in the field of succession. In both cases, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ordered the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to abolish non-compliance within 6 months, but in the third paragraph of both sentences it also provided that the same terms were applied to same-sex partners as to the spouse or the extra-marital partner. That is no longer the case with human rights violations. There is also no anti-constitutional situation in the exercise of inheritance rights. There are no other contra-constitutions found in relation to the status of same-sex partners in the Slovenian legal order. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia could also determine them when it considers the Registration Act of the same-sex partnership community, as it could assess the whole law and not only the contested inheritance. Next. The amendment adopted by the new law on marriage and family relations is a review of the marriage. In line with the repeated decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, marriage has not been recognised as the human right of two persons of the same sex, nor does this result from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the provisions on marriage or from the practice of the Constitutional Court. There is no constitutionality in the field of marriage in the Slovenian legal order and so is the new law on marriage and family relations cannot be abolished and, consequently, it cannot be prohibited to call for a referendum on this law. The amendment introduced by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is therefore not the abolition of individual anti-constitutions for same-sex partners, but a review of the marriage or the possibility of two persons of the same sex being able to marry, but it is not necessary for both of them to be in the same-sex orientation. Given that the ban on the call for a referendum does not meet even procedural conditions and even less substantive conditions, and has a number of legal consequences to the public, it is only right that people should be allowed to decide on this at the referendum. We will therefore strongly oppose the restriction of democracy by banning the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u76	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u77	Mr President, thank you for the floor. All of you, welcome back! Policies that the majority decide on a minority, or vice versa, that a minority beats, takes or intervenes in the rights of the majority are still hot in the public eye and are completely unintentional, misleading and abused. This is not about a majority or a minority, it is about an individual as one person. It is a man who, as a fundamental and supreme legal act, gives him the inalienable right to equal treatment before the law. All law or any other legal act resulting from it and the rights and obligations of our citizens and citizens must follow the general principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination, which must not permit any distinction between people, which by law of nature differs from one another, according to the natural appearance or physical characteristics, the nationality of the nation, the secular and religious beliefs, as well as differences in social status and economic capabilities. The history of fighting for individual human rights, to remind me only of women's rights in relation to men or black men versus white men, has produced significant results in human society. I believe that you all agree that these results are positive, that we accept them and recognise them and that this is a great civilisational contribution. As far as the current law is concerned, discrimination against same-sex partners in the current legal arrangements and in daily life is clearly, systematically and in some cases also constitutionally demonstrated. In fact, it concerns all areas of social life which are legally regulated: civil law, criminal law, social security law, labour law, economic law, administrative law and, last but not least, the area of family and partner law. That is why this point, which we can talk about as a constitutional issue, is the question of ensuring equal human rights for all and under equal conditions. This introduction of our position is not in any way mentioned in the context of defining the contents of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, since Members and Members of the Desus Group have already defined themselves in the vote. Let me reiterate that the Desus Group did not have a unified position. Members and Members of Parliament have decided on our conscience and conviction, which is also human rights. In line with our individual judgements, we have also decided when some of us have contributed signatures to the proposal for a decision on inadmissibility or after a revised proposal to reject the legislative referendum on law. We will also make different decisions in our parliamentary group today when we vote. As far as the introductory words are concerned, they have been made explicit because of the new aspect of constitutional regulation in relation to the admissibility of the referendum on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. Given that it is clear that the law adopted is followed by the Constitutional Court, the majority of our parliamentary group believes that the procedure we are implementing today in the National Assembly is necessary to satisfy the 90th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is the National Assembly as the legislator who is obliged to do so, since the National Assembly is the one who adopts laws, and he is the one who, at the same time in the legislative process, is obliged to ensure that human rights are not denied to anyone for any reason. The Ombudsman is the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and it is therefore right to discuss today whether and how we will be satisfied with the implementation of article 90 of the Constitution. Following a change in the Constitution, today's procedure will be a precedent, irrespective of whether its provisions relating to the referendum procedure continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the new regulation in the Referendum Act and on the People's Initiative. Today's proceedings and the adoption of the decision under consideration are important in order to allow the Constitutional Court to be judged at all on the admissibility of a possible referendum. Whatever decision the Constitutional Judges make, it will also be subject to respect by our Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u78	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greeting also on my behalf, distinguished secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Martin Vuk, colleague and colleague! The Social Democrats will unanimously support the decision. We believe that Article 90 of the Constitution clearly gives the right to the Council of State to judge the inadmissibility of a matter for a referendum decision and that the Constitutional Court, as the highest guardian of the Constitution and its written rights, should have equal rights for our citizens and citizens. Article 14 of the Constitution is clear. It provides that we are all equal before the law and prohibits discrimination on the basis of personal circumstances, which sexual orientation is undoubtedly the case. It guarantees all equal human rights and fundamental freedoms. These also come from a number of other documents that our country has adopted and is obliged to respect. Article 15 is also clear, which states that no human rights or fundamental freedoms regulated by legal acts in force in Slovenia are allowed to be restricted by an excuse that the Constitution does not recognise it or that it recognises it to a lesser extent. The confirmation of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was a direct enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. This has already been found in several decisions in some laws to be unconstitutional in ensuring the rights of same-sex couples, and these exist in more than 70 other laws. With the adoption of the law, the rights of diversified and same-sex couples have been completely equalized, as it says, and we are bound by Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. A homophobic pursuit gets a new chapter, a new start. It is precisely those who should defend these rights at all costs who are promoting diversity and violating human rights. Lies, misleading claims, falsifying facts, labeling and condemning differences, exploiting the naivety and trust of people — all of these are acts, unworthy societies that want progress. There are acts that fuel hatred and create social divisions, acts that cause senseless suffering. The role of the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church is therefore unacceptable, unreasonable, regrettable. We would rather follow the words of Pope Francis on the topic of the same-sexed, who says: "The Catholic Church's catechism explains this very well. He says we must not neglect them, but must be included in society." Human rights are also the basis of a society that cares about all its members and members. They are the foundation of a community that knows that it will be most successful when all its members are active and able to realize their potentials and dreams. Social Democrats want to gradually, in an inclusive way and through enhanced social communication, develop the progressive, open and free-minded character of society. We want to be patient with those who think differently and to accept the variety by ensuring the same rights and possibilities of all the shades in the rainbow. Tolerance must become an integral part of our broader social space. It is not enough to talk and write about patience, but it is important to learn about patience, especially how to live. We strongly oppose the referendum's social democrats, which interferes with human rights and fundamental freedoms, because we believe that such an initiative only promotes inequality and further promotes the already too much intolerance that exists in our society. Human rights are universal and for all equal, inalienable and indivisible. The initiative constitutes an intervention in minority rights. It is the intention of the majority to speak about which part of human rights they will mercifully acknowledge to someone else. This is what the Social Democrats are determined to do. There is no doubt that, as in the family code, the debate has turned into an ideological debate and focuses on denying differentness and denying and trampling on human rights. We regret that for almost two years the ongoing public and political debate on the proposal for a family code, which has shown a fundamental understanding of the dynamics of the development of Slovenian society in the field of social practices, has remained unheard of and all the words spoken about intolerance, equality and acceptance have been delivered to nothing, which is why we are now once again witnessing the campaign of aggressive rhetoric and demagogues. The fact is that same-sex families exist and are in accordance with the democratic principles of our country equivalent to other types of family. We can't avoid that. Such families will exist regardless of the prejudices present in our society, and they need to be eradicated. Social Democrats note that, unfortunately, human rights are not self-evident in democracy as well. Their realization requires the firm will and commitment of the authorities to respect human rights. We are constantly working for the Social Democrats to improve the human rights standard already achieved. Sometimes it feels like we're fighting windmills in the wind. We don't insist on being doctrinal, it's because we know and feel that the only true and just path is the one that leads to the well-being of all. In order to ensure the right to freedom, we have also supported and co-signed a proposal for a decision rejecting the referendum. We believe that the aim of the referendum initiative, which wants to limit rights, is not to offer simultaneous protection of rights to others, is unacceptable. The maturity of a society and the understanding of its democratic principles are most clearly reflected in how minority rights are protected in relation to the majority. And if we allow a referendum to be held by the initiators to prevent the equalization of the rights of the same-sex minority with the rights of the diverse majority, this will represent a major step back in understanding fundamental democratic rights and protecting human rights. We are confident of the strength of the arguments that say that such a referendum should not be carried out. While it is true that the right to a referendum is guaranteed by the Constitution and, as such, is perfectly legitimate, we feel that the Social Democrats themselves are an unacceptable intervention in human rights. Therefore, on the basis of the expertly substantiated arguments put forward by the applicants in the decision, we expect the Constitutional Court to also impose this, provided that this is, of course, stated. Finally, "If one man is gay, and seeks God within himself, and has a good heart, who am I to judge him?" – Pope Francis. Who are we? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u80	The text is given by the United Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! By adopting the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which we have drawn up in the United Left, Slovenia has finally ended the systematic discrimination against the same-minded and abolished the unconstitutional situation that prevailed until it was adopted. The new CFSP was therefore adopted for one very reason – to eliminate the unconstitutional state of systemic discrimination on the basis of personal circumstances. We have implemented Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which clearly stipulates that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material state, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal situation. The novel has thus ensured equality before the law, in the only possible systemic way, so that we treat the same in essentially equal terms. As the Constitutional Court has pointed out, same-sex and diversified partners are subject to the essential same factual and legal basis of the community. Any distinction in the legal regime of both communities, including the legal consequences of these communities, is not based on any real, non-personal, different circumstances, but on sexual orientation. Since the situation is therefore the same, any distinction should be regarded as discrimination in the light of personal circumstances. The new CFSP therefore eliminates discrimination and non-constitution in the field of human rights. By adopting the novel, Slovenia has re-established itself as a progressive, democratic and tolerant society and has joined a number of countries that have already fully established equality between diversified and same-sex couples. We got everybody with the novel, and no one lost anything. With this novel Slovenia enters the 21st century. Regrettably, however, the voices of the past were raised again and required a referendum on a law that eliminates discrimination and thus anti-constitution in the field of human rights. These voices of the past are trying to reach a majority vote on minority human rights through a referendum. The minorities are trying to renounce the rights and duties that have been so difficult to afford. Just as they were hard-earned and abolished slavery and racial discrimination. As difficult as the General Election Rights were elected, and later as electoral rights for women. In this defense, the initiators of the referendum do not choose resources. They deceive, distort facts and spread untruths. How else could we understand a type of statement that this law eliminates sex? Please. The novel was adopted, and I am still a woman, and of course a lot of other things – I am a mother, a socialist, a human rights fighter. It is crystal clear that the amendment of the law has been adopted to eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights. Therefore, we cannot today do anything but find that the initiative to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations refers to a law which, in accordance with the fourth indent of the second indent of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is not permissible for a referendum. By adopting a decision, we will not allow the majority to decide on human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u82	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u83	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Today is a sad day for Slovenian democracy. For those who make the most outspoken references to commitment to the rule of law, this really means little battle. Less than ten days ago, they loudly proclaimed that they respected the Constitution and the principle of law, which said that parliamentary majority of the people's will was overtaken. Today, positions are already diametrically opposite. Moreover, they have also become experts in constitutional law and in assessing whether or not a provision is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Christian Democrats remain committed to the constitutional right to referendum as the highest democratic form of expression of the will of the people. Those who deny it and try to prevent it are, in our opinion, cutting the branch on which they sit alone. The consequences of such acts are seen in the apathy of citizens on the one hand and radicalisation on the other, and the responsibility lies with us, in Parliament. Initially, we are concerned that the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative should be in line with Article 1 of the Constitutional Law within one year of its entry into force, i.e. no later than 24 May 2014. No one is burdened by the fact that the Government has not done this task in time. There is no sanction for this and it doesn't matter whether they do it or not. Here, too, is the complete misery of the legal system, and why the law sets hands that are not respected. We Christian Democrats are concerned about the way and level of public debate of some opponents of the referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which we have witnessed in the last few weeks. Unfortunately, at the time of the request for this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we have experienced a new attack by some parliamentary groups, which, in our opinion, requires an appropriate response. The United Left, Desusa, SD and ZaAB groups state in a joint statement, inter alia: "In the parties of the United Left, Desus, SD and ZaAB, we strongly condemn the use of hate speech and the spread of non-truths, which are used in defending the referendum by the RCC with the support of NSI and SDS. The main purpose of such action is merely to mislead the public and to deny human rights. All the arguments cited by the opponents of the law are unrealistic and are intended only to spread unjustified fear." We ask Christian Democrats whether the authors have ever read and understood the meaning of their words. How do these same people, members of the National Assembly, represent the coexistence of different thinking people in our common country? We do not land in a way where some randomly gathered individuals are called upon to make responsible decisions about what hate speech is. Such a statement is, in our opinion, a direct attack on some of the fundamental liberal values of modern society, among which is the highest freedom. Since the authors of the statement cite RCC, NSI and SDS, this is an attack on religious freedom. The Italian liberal philosopher Ernesto Galli della Loggia says that religious freedom means nothing more than freedom of conscience, it is said that for no reason are we forced to accept ideas and behaviours that are contrary to the guidelines we accept in our interior. It is in fact freedom of self-determination, which is why freedom of speech, writing, debate in support of our own beliefs, as well as freedom to listen to other beliefs and freedom to let others be convinced. Today, at many levels, it is noted that the victims of hate speech and action are Christians in Slovenia, Europe and the world. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, inter alia, adopted, at its winter session on 29 January 2015, a resolution to address intolerance and discrimination in Europe with particular regard to Christians requiring more religious freedom and respect for religious pluralism in the Member States. The accompanying report states that religious freedom is a fundamental human right and the main guardian of modern democratic and plural society. The statement of these parliamentary groups shows how they picture social dialogue. All arguments other than theirs are considered unrealistic and intended only to spread fear. We Christian Democrats find that the truth is just the opposite. Those who make the most known as tolerant actually have the greatest difficulty in adopting different opinions. With regard to the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, Christian Democrats have always publicly pointed out that we do not oppose the regulation of rights and the situation of same-sex persons, but it is unacceptable for us that the novel has introduced, following a reduced procedure, the full alignment of same-sex partnerships with the marriage of men and women. For us in particular, the possibility of joint adoption of children by the two same-sex partners is disputed and we strongly oppose it. We reiterate that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by Decision No 425/06 of 2 July 2009, did not repeal the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community, but decided that only Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community was inconsistent with the Constitution. In the 12th paragraph of the sentence, it explicitly stated: "The registered partnership is a relationship that is similar to a marriage or an extramarital community." The Constitutional Court thus established the relationship as similar but not in any way the same and did not require any equivalence. The law on marriage therefore substantially exceeds in the decision the obligation imposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to remedy legal non-compliance and introduces solutions not imposed by the Constitutional Court. In this context, Christian Democrats understand that the drafters of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations abuse Constitutional Court Decision No 425/06 in order to enforce a number of other radical changes or redefinitions of marriage as fundamental cells of society. If there was political will, the Registration Act of the same-sex partnership community could be quickly rectified with an appropriate complement. Christian Democrats are convinced that the recently adopted novel is also contrary to Article 53 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The Constitution also provides for marriage and family as human rights and fundamental freedoms, and Article 53, paragraph 3, states: "The State shall protect the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and shall create the necessary conditions for this protection." In this case, we believe that the redefinition of the family as the basic cells of society, which will henceforth only be the union of two persons, cannot be talked about motherhood and paternity in the spirit of this constitutional provision. The fact is that mother and father, and not two persons of the same sex, and thus their fundamental mission, is motherhood and fatherhood to biological children or adoptive parents, completely loses its purpose, for we will not talk about mother and father anymore, but about two persons, parents. The purpose of this constitutional human rights and fundamental freedoms is undoubtedly to protect the mother as a woman and father as a man. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we do not oppose regulating the status of same-sex partners. Evidence is the fact that we were the first to understand the sensitivity of this area 10 years ago and have proposed a solution – a law that was certainly a turning point in regulating social relations in Slovenia. We have not satisfied ourselves, and not every time we use the area of ideological warfare, which we meet before every election and during periods when the left can't offer solutions for many problems in Slovenian society. This is the situation now. We are sad to be attacked by those who fight for the well-being of children. We share an enemy speech. There is also no regulated possibility of conscientious objection for all those who disagree with the law. We are discussing things that concern a sensitive minority, where there are still the most sensitive children. It will be weak to create new divisions and new prejudices, which will mainly burden the environment in society for the benefit of children for a long time. Members of the New Slovenia – we will vote against the proposal for a decision, because we are in favour of respecting the will of the people and for the referendum to be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u84	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič. First, I give the floor to Dr. Matthew T. Vatov.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. I think that, after this first round of views, it would be appropriate, in some way, to respond on behalf of the applicants to some of the statements that we have heard from the opposing parties. First of all, this is the one that I think will be the main one, is that the National Assembly is not competent to decide on this and that the referendum rejects it. Although I have explained this in the introduction in the supplementary presentation, I would like once again to highlight this procedure. As mentioned above, the Constitution has been amended by constitutional law, the second section of which provides that Article 21 of the ZRLI applies mutatis mutandis, and it follows from this that the National Assembly may decide on the inadmissibility of the referendum in the course of the collection of signatures. Here we must refer both to constitutional changes, to constitutional law, to the current and existing legislative bases and, in some ways, to the practice of the Constitutional Court itself. I pointed out that the Constitutional Court had already prevented the referendum in the case of deleted cases in 1995 and found that: "As soon as the President of the National Assembly sets a deadline for the collection of signatures, citizens are invited to determine whether they are for the content of the request. This raises the question to all citizens who have the right to vote." And this issue is the same at this stage of the procedure as it was later at the referendum. "Therefore the question arises whether, just because the collection of signatures at this stage of the procedure does not yet have the nature of the requirement within the meaning of Article 12 of the ZRLI, it is already a substantive requirement that only the support of the electorate needs, it is necessary to wait for this to become formal if it is already obvious in this situation that this issue will not be allowed to be posed to the same target population later. The Constitutional Court considers that such an interpretation of the law in a democratic and legal state is inadmissible." It is undemocratic, then, to insist that, despite the change in the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional law in force, the National Assembly does not have that power. On the contrary, the National Assembly is the only one in the current situation who has to take over this burden of proof and stop it. As far as this undemocratic thing is concerned, I think it's already addressed here. I'll come back to this point later. Above all, it is also problematic to argue that we are not relying on the abolition of the constitutionality and to refer to what the Constitutional Commission has identified in the previous call of the National Assembly, in the words of Mrs Kociper, as stated by the opponents. Let me explain briefly. The basic proposal to amend the Constitution provided for a dictatorship that the referendum was not admissible if human rights and fundamental freedoms could be affected or other unconstitutional consequences could arise. On 28 November 2012, the Section of the Constitutional Commission gave its position on the proposal to amend the Constitution. She wrote in her comments: "The section proposes to consider, instead of the proposed exclusional reason, that a legislative referendum should not be allowed to be negotiated on laws adopted to eliminate the found unconstitutionality." In the positions adopted by the National Assembly, however, we can no longer find the words found. The doctrine set out for study was about laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights. It follows from the report on the proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure that part of the proposal provides the basis for the expert group's position to specify the last indent of the second paragraph of the new 90th Article of the Constitution, in the light of the reasoning by which the Constitutional Court would prohibit a referendum not only for laws that abolish the constitutionality already established, but also for other laws where these decisions have not yet been taken by the Constitutional Court. In all these cases, the Constitutional Court should weigh constitutional values, including, in particular, human rights and freedoms. The working draft constitutional amendments of 6 March 2014 thus stated in the explanation of this dictatorship: "The proposed exclusional reason would allow for a limitation of the referendum decision in cases where a possible refusal to enforce the law would prevent an end to the unconstitutional situation, including the elimination of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Referendum decisions can be limited if this is necessary to safeguard another constitutional value, whose breach already exists and therefore to be abolished by new legislation, as well as if the applicable legal regime is unconstitutional and the adoption of the law removes this unconstitutionality in a constitutional manner." It is very clear from this that the legislator's intention is that it is by no means just a matter of established contradictions, as the SDS is trying to present, but of any unconstitutionality. And we have repeatedly referred primarily to Article 14, which defines equality before the law, and any violation of this Article is unconstitutional. The fact that there are no other unconstitutionalities is also attracted to hair. In the introductory explanation, I have made it clear that there are more than 70 laws that give rise to such a violation of the principle of equality before the law, and I think that this matter here is clear. The fact that marriage is not a right and that by adopting the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, we have not changed any human rights – I would add only that this novel establishes for the same-sex community all the rights of the non-marital community. So it is not necessary to marry, but the relationship between the same-sex partners can represent all the rights that come from the non-marital community. As far as the statement against the RCC, NSI and SDS is concerned, in some ways it is also an accusation that we are in violation of the harmony of a dialogue and so on. I would just like to remind you that the same NSI, which condemns us, in its statement to the public bearing the title Two words, which can change everything, has carried out a much worse violation of the right to freedom of speech. There we find reference to the Third Book of Moses, where the author of this position or statement says that if anyone is lying with a man as he is lying with a woman, both of them have committed abomination; let them be put to death; their blood fall upon them. I think that the proponents of this decision, as well as the reference to this extraordinary meeting, have strongly condemned the manipulation of the electorate, in particular those who are collecting signatures for the referendum, with some fear of children's rights, freedom of education rights, the rights of old parents. I think we just wanted to warn you that it was a scarecrow. I also understand, for some reason – some concern, some change that is completely logical and, as we have already heard, in line with some social progress. In a Christian way, I would also urge those who have no sin to throw away the first stone. In short, I wanted to react to these findings. I don't think the rest is that important. I think it is most important that we remain in this debate what we are adopting here today. We accept the conclusion that it is unacceptable to present a referendum concerning the law that eliminates unconstitutionality in the field of human rights, and let us make this effort and also see that this is the case. So let us also allow others to have the same human rights as we do.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u86	Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for that opportunity. In my procedural proposal, I would just like to point out that we are all committed to the truth here in our debates, and let me say that New Slovenia has never, ever written in a public statement what Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has just said. You know how a party's public statement is formed. New Slovenia has never written this down in its public statement. And here I want us to tell the truth. What's not true is a lie, and what Matey Tashner Vatovec said was not true. So I ask that we be patient to speak the truth here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u88	Would you do the procedure, too, or what? [[No, no, ……]] I give you my word. I'm not going to react to that. It wasn't very procedural, but you have the floor, so you can clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u89	I'll use that as a proposal. Maybe she wasn't formally defined as a public statement, I admit. It was a position published on the official website of New Slovenia. I know it said below that it was the author's opinion, but, excuse me, the date of the record is 17. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You later withdrew this, but it was published and this is also the position of a member of your party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u90	Please! I give the word myself, it tells me the rules of procedure. Obviously, we do not have a procedural proposal to clarify, categorize or call it. This will most likely have to be leased when we change the rules of procedure. One of them is also the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, so I am giving him this as a task to go on. We are now clear, so there was no official position, it was on the website. This is it now and let's put this behind us and move on with the debate. Mrs Marinka Levičar has the floor and, as I said before, Mrs Marija Bachič should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! Since we are done discussing the truth, my position is as follows. The truth is never just one thing; the truth is more, depending on the point of view we are looking at, the point of view we are assessing individual things. That is why, in today's debate, I intend to look at both aspects, both from the perspective of those who are against the referendum and those who are in favour of the referendum. I think the main problem is that the advocates for the referendum are mainly because this amendment introduces the possibility of adoption for same-sex partners. I think that the biggest problem is this, and they are opposed to this for legitimate reasons, which are also true. But the opposite side has a different opinion. The law or constitution prohibits discrimination against people on the basis of circumstances. As a personal situation, same-sex orientation is also considered, and therefore the amendment allows for the same-sex rights of all other rights conferred by the law on marriage as well as the right of adoption. As far as personal circumstances are concerned. In general, I do not think that personal circumstances are taken into account in the law on the marriage of children everywhere. You have already made your views here quite clear. I still see it as a personal circumstance and you didn't convince me it wasn't. Age, for example, is limited in the adoption of children. Then I also see as a personal circumstance old parents who cannot adopt children. Then I see as the personal situation of a single person who cannot adopt children, even though we know that women who live alone with their children can be completely solid mothers. And if she can raise her own child, I don't think there's any reason she can't raise an adopted child. But that's not what the law allows. My personal position on all that I have heard so far is that I think it is appropriate for this referendum to be decided by the Constitutional Court because I do not believe that we will reach a common position here. It will prevail in the opinion of the majority, who are known to be what he is. Perhaps, however, the Constitutional Court will bring the most correct solution that we will all have to respect, whatever it may be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u92	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello again! The recognition and life of human rights are essential components of the free world. Tolerance is also linked to human freedom and its being in the community. Social Democrats respect a difference that not only permits but strengthens positive differences in human character, culture, nationality and society as well as the rich. Tolerance is understood as acceptance and respect for human uniqueness. Tolerance is primarily the responsibility of those with greater social and political power to protect human rights. In Slovenia, all employees pay taxes. These taxes also include compensation for parental care. This means that all same-sex people also pay contributions, while they do not have the right to use it. The same-sex couple cannot benefit from the right to maternity leave and paternity leave because certain rights are not transferable. In the debates that have been held so far, I have mainly found that the biggest problem for all who oppose this law is the adoption of children of same-sex partners. Nobody, or anyone, wonders what their children will gain by doing so. If he's holding your slogan for the children, then let them have the right to have a family. These adoptions will certainly not be mass adoptions, because adoption is not easy. But if a adopted child who is hungry, homeless, homeless, and in an orphanage gets a loving family that will save his hunger and give him life, I ask you: What is wrong with that? However, in the event that the child is adopted by a partner or partner, it is possible for the child to have another parent, who will thus have all the legitimate right to survival and all the rights and responsibilities that all parents have. The adoption will also give same-sex parents the responsibility and obligations arising from the rights and obligations of family law, such as child protection, kindergarten, schools and other obligations, while the child needs social security and emotional support. I am sure that we will soon realize that nothing has happened to the same sex because of the recognition of rights. Article 14 of the Constitution is clear, we are all the same before the law, so it is so difficult to accept the fact that someone has to fight for the rights that are most self-sustaining in 2015. I think we'll all be pleasantly surprised when we find out that the same-sex didn't take anything from us, but they got a lot. I want to walk into the street myself and see satisfied people who will no longer have to hide or even be ashamed of their same-sex orientations. In each family, disagreements arise, so that we do not idealize the classic family, since we have been following the tragedy of alcoholism, sexual, physical and psychological abuse. These kids need protection, they're here today and now. We support the decision to reject the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u94	Matjaž Hanžek has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much, President. I will quote first: "Our societies are becoming increasingly multicultural, so we must not be afraid of different and different. At the same time, it is not enough to just tolerate ourselves or, in Slovenian, to just suffer. We must celebrate the wealth of diversity and ensure the protection and promotion of minority rights and the different identities of all of us." This is a somewhat shortened text that Dr Dimitrij Rupel, a member of the SDS, said at an international conference some decade ago, and I absolutely agree with it. But the problem is that even though we know that each of us has a lot of identity, from citizenship, age, sex, sexual orientation, not least, some identities are much more problematic than others. Some identities provoke opposition to us, sometimes even disgust, as we have heard from the Scriptures, and so on. But beyond that, if we really want to be patient in this way, which means more than just suffering, but to help ourselves, it is also necessary to defend the advancement of the rights of those minorities who are not yet fully equal. The thing is, we are always for equality, but there is also one "but" position. And I'm going to quote one of the former politicians, "Well, of course, let's be optimistic and constructive, but a measure of caution is, let's say, necessary." It was about one other thing, about the question of the mosque. And I've heard that "but" a lot today. We're for equality, but not for everything. But we have to realize that human rights are indivisible and we can't tell if this part belongs to you, this part doesn't belong to you, and so on. If it doesn't belong to you completely, then nothing belongs to you at all. And the second sentence, which was sometimes very common – I have followed it in previous phases decades and more, the same themes, the same themes, where I have often listened to some minority give at least about equality, and I have heard: "Of course, minorities cannot demand inappropriately more rights than most of them." Every time minorities want to be equal to the majority, most people get scared and start talking about how a minority has more rights, even though according to some international standards they should have exactly what they call positive discrimination, but in this case we do not even defend it. All I'd do is warn you that I won't be too long. Years ago, I was involved in analysing attitudes towards others and others, including in countries in Europe, on the question of who I would not have as a neighbor, where I found that Roma people are easier to tolerate for neighbors than homosexuals. It's the most problematic thing people can't go through. And for example, I would count the order of states, what percentage would not have a homosexual neighbor, and I would count only those who are over 50%, from the type below: Serbia, Moldova, Russia, Ukraine, Romania, Poland, Bulgaria. On the other hand, there are countries where the opposition is 10 percent or less, namely the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Spain, Andorra, Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, Germany. And now I'm wondering what cultural circle of countries we'd like to be in. That's what I'm done with. And I call once again with a quote at the outset: "It is not enough just to tolerate each other or to suffer each other, but we must ensure equality for all minorities." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u96	Mrs Ludmila Novak has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u97	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! On 3 March, we or you decided to amend the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Why must we, now, decide what is the right of the people to say at the referendum what he thinks about this amended law? Why are you afraid? Why are you in such a hurry? You're afraid that within three days, 40,000 signatures would be collected that would say a lot, and in one week or two, so much more. You're afraid of that, and that's why you're stopping people from collecting signatures, expressing their will, their opinion. Here you tell us all the time that we are impatient and how important it is that most people do not make decisions about a minority. In democracy, most people always make decisions. And so if the minority decides and then we change, the opposition will always be right and the opposition will decide what is right and what is wrong if you now claim that the minority is more important. But I think it's important that people say what they think about this marriage. The people elected us, we said our voices when we voted, and now let the people tell. You know well that you brought them around, that you forced this law into a quick, violent, unnecessary public debate, you changed the definition of the law on marriage overnight. I've never been intolerant to the same-sex orientation, and I won't. However, I think that this is not the first thing we want these people to be more involved in society, that they have more rights, but that it is behind the ideology, the ideology of the sex that always follows when such a law is passed in certain countries, and then there is actually violence against other thinkers. When you tell us that we are spreading fear, we just want to tell you what this law or activists who promote the theory of sex are going to do. We already have a lot of information when students, children, students tell us that they are quietly doing this to ask them repeatedly about their sexual orientation. But children are afraid to expose it publicly, and their parents are mostly afraid to be burned for it, but this is happening. I hope it goes well for the referendum to be allowed. No one should stay at home, for this referendum will decide what education will be like in kindergartens, schools, and if we allow the law to be enforced, then teachers will have to learn contrary to what they think, parents will not be able to challenge the various theories of sex, otherwise they will be accused, convicted. You say we spread fear. You're spreading fear! There is talk of a Commission on Human Rights which is already applying for all those who think otherwise that several applications have already been filed. And what Mr Vatovec said about Irene Vadnjal's comment, which was published on our side, we have said several times, is not the official position of the party, but the comment that the lady wrote as she sees and thinks. And she quoted the Bible, the Old Testament, that came 2,000 years before Christ! Thus, it is necessary to complain to the Bible commission because it is written in the Old Testament, which is very hard many times, so I prefer to use the New Testament, where Christ says You are to judge another or the One who has not sinned to throw the stone first. And if Pope Francis is quoted, I hope that he will quote many times, even when he says something that the current advocates of the law are not willing to do, he will encourage them to think differently. In New Slovenia, we have always advocated that the rights and status of same-sex partners be regulated. Our client was the first to support this in 2005. If it's a controversial title of the law, we can rename it, it can change. What has been imposed by the Constitutional Court's decision is introduced, but there is no need to change the definition of marriage because the relationship between a man and a woman is not and cannot be the same. It could be similar to what the court says. Why do we have to change what has been in force for thousands of years now? Let us arrange for the same-sex status to be accepted in society to have their rights, but each person also has his own limitations. I can't be an opera singer either, because I can't sing like that, and someone else can't be a pilot because they don't have that kind of skills. There are limits in life that we must accept, or advantages. I hear many times that many also have special talents, gifts, talent, ambition, good work in their jobs. They also have certain advantages. I'm not just talking about something that's different. But these are life-givings that we must accept, and therefore we do not have to change the definition of marriage, which is and remains a relationship between a man and a woman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u98	Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much, chairman. I have a procedural proposal for you to give me at the last intervention of Mrs Ludmila Novak. For at the beginning of her discussion, she was very rude and very rude when she spoke all gliharically about the fact that if the majority should not decide on the minority, then the government, the opposition, and so on. No, we are not talking about taking into account some general will of the majority, but we are talking about human rights, human rights of the minority. And look, the human rights of a minority can't really be decided by a majority. And what you've used, this all-gliharism and relativization of our argument on the protection of human rights of minorities, is, I think, extremely unacceptable, extremely manipulative. However, my proposal to the President is that, in the event that any other debater has such a manoeuvre, he should only be reminded that we are not talking in general about the minority and the majority, but about the human rights of minorities, which cannot be decided by the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u100	The procedural proposal was that I should have warned. If I detect the elements of the hate speech, I will definitely do it. Otherwise, given what the debate is today, and now the debate from 12 a.m. is about to start, I do not want to interfere with the debate when I think that the matter is still expressed in a cultural way. If anyone feels hurt by the way people express their opinions, let me know and then I will react accordingly. You obviously didn't get hurt personally. For principle reasons, this time I will not react. Anyway, I said I wouldn't do anything about it, but I'll keep trying to keep an eye on it if it's part of the hate speech. I have not seen them now, so I basically reject this procedural proposal. Excuse me? A replica? Replica, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u101	Mr Kordish replicated, although he did not have a previous debate and should not have replicated, and this was not a procedural proposal. Secondly, adoption of children is not a human right. Equally, the marriage between a man and a woman is the definition of marriage and the transformation of a marriage relationship between two persons is not a human right.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u102	I admit that under what was a procedural proposal, I did not recognize the replica. Is it okay on both sides now? Can we move on? Okay. The word has magic. I'm holding Bon Klanjšček, getting Simon Zajc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Unfortunately, I must express the sadness and misunderstanding that I feel in the face of the daily explicit opposition to the Marriage and Family Relations Act. There are a number of lies and manipulations by opponents of the equalization of marriage between a man and a woman with a marriage of same-sex partners. It's about the kids, it's about hearing. Is it true? Why not talk about the increasing prevalence of family violence, abuse, and alcoholism in families? Seems like we just suddenly lost our hearing for the kids' troubles. As early as 2012, at the time of the referendum decision initiated by the same initiators, similar arguments were heard by the opponents, i.e. arguments that had deviated from the content of the code itself. I would like to point out that, in the first place, the Code has allowed the country to intervene more quickly in family relations where this is necessary in terms of the protection of family members. He also established a system of adoption and fostering, for which it was also heard by the professional public, how urgent it was to find suitable solutions in the short term, since the system does not work as it should. Despite these good solutions, however, the initiators of the referendum on the family code were inexorably opposed. Why the family code fell at the referendum, we all know. The fear of adoption of children by same-sex partners was too great, despite the fact that the code was not regulated at all. Every time I open up the adoption theme, the question opens up to me is why the initiators of the referendum are constantly making up arguments about how same-sex couples can adopt children. It is true that the Law on Marriage and Family Relations will allow them to be put in line for adoption and there are no articles in law that would give them the priority of adoption, as the initiators try to present to the public. Everybody knows how many couples are waiting for adoptions. But I have to stop at the following information. There are 977 children living in foster care. So 977 children who do not have a family or for various reasons cannot live with their parents, and these children also need a loving home and family. That every child needs a family where, above all, he can gain inner peace, we all believe. Opinions vary when it comes to what family is or what the real definition of family is. The fact is that same-sex couples, like diversified couples, create a loving and lasting partnership, and the fact is that there is an unjustified notion that there is some special form of family that should give them priority over others. Every day when we read newspapers, we can read the sad stories of innocent children. That the phenomenon of domestic violence is greater every day is probably also clear to the initiators of the referendum, but I wonder where the hearing for children's distress is. He doesn't seem to be here. I would like to believe that we live in a tolerant society, that the password for children really reflects the care of children, but I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u104	Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations must be rejected today because this law regulates non-constitutionality in the field of human rights, and according to our constitution, the referendum on the law governing human rights is not allowed to be declared. And yes, we can stop it at the time of signature gathering, because we have to apply Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative in a meaningful way. In addition, in 1995 the Constitutional Court ruled similarly in the case of deleted persons. So we have a basis, and I think our conscience tells us to do it today. Personally, this referendum is disputed for a number of reasons, mainly because of how recruits sign to support this referendum. Because she's marrying them by deceiving them so I don't even say lies. Let me mention some deceptions. Instigators say that this law does not allow old parents to adopt their grandchildren. But, old parents, you need to know that this law doesn't take this option away from you. This amendment to the law does not take you into account the possibility of adopting your grandchildren because you have not had these options already. Why you didn't have it, but the question is for the current initiators of the referendum. In fact, they were the ones who similarly activated the public, that at the referendum they rejected the family code, which gave you this opportunity. Even Mrs Levičar's answer: it is not true that a single person cannot adopt a child in Slovenia. A single person in Slovenia can adopt a child, but if she is married, you must do it together. So, he's not gonna hold that back either. Next thing. Proponents say that the law does not ensure that children are raised on their own conscience and by their own religious beliefs. But this law does not prohibit anyone from raising his children by his own conscience and by his own religious beliefs. Everyone will continue to be able to raise them like this, each one of us, as they think is right. But it is true that from now on, when this law comes into force, we will have to have one more conversation with our children. We all know how exhausting these conversations can be. If you have such an old child somewhere, why, why, why? He wants to know everything. One small thing, like why you have to brush your teeth, can last an hour: "You have to brush your teeth." "Why?" "Because you'll have other holes." "Why?" "If you have holes, it'll hurt." "Why?" And it never stops. I feel this concern and concern of my parents when it comes to explaining to the child why the stepmothers of Mihca from kindergarten can now be married. That meter, which counts how long it's gonna take, it's gonna burn. That'll be why, why, why? But the fact that we are unable to talk to our own children cannot be the reason not to eliminate the injustice that is now felt by the same sex - oriented ones. It cannot be our inability to explain to children that this is now possible, a reason not to eliminate discrimination. The proposer also suggests that children in school will have to learn from the textbook Love is love because this law does not ensure that they do not study in school after this textbook. But this law does not guarantee that in biology they will not learn from the book of Fifty Shades of Grey, because it is not the substance of the law. What children learn at school is determined by the professional council. Thus, none of us parents have to fear that we will have to buy an extra textbook because that will not be the case, and that fear is superfluous. Let me finish. The referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the CFSP must be rejected today because this law regulates contradictions in the field of human rights, and such a referendum under our Constitution is not permissible. By means of this law, we abolish the anti-constitution, because a certain group of people, I repeat, a group of people – this particular group of people today is not the same before the law. In 70 laws, they are discriminated against. And if we change this law, there will be no more discrimination. So let's change this law. And that's why we're not allowed to sign a referendum on this subject. And for the last time, no one will pick up your grandkids. No one's picking up your kids. No one will cancel your marriage, you can only do it yourself. No one will tell you how to raise your children. No one will force you to change your sexual orientation. For us, for the most part, everything will be the same. But for a small group of people – this small group of people will no longer be discriminated against before marriage. None of us lose anything, so every fear is too great. And this referendum, respected and respected, is out of the question and not admissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u106	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u107	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In opening, I would like to say that, after these interesting debates that I have now heard, that this issue in the National Assembly would not be on the agenda if this coalition and the party that has tabled this law into the parliamentary procedure did not do so. Trust me. It's right that you've begun to realize what you've done. Second thing. I am convinced that this national assembly and everyone sitting in this Parliament and in the Government should understand that at this moment the economic, financial, social crisis in this country is a more important issue. Instead of addressing the key issues of our future at this time, we are dealing with the same-sex partner communities. I'm not saying that they're undervalued, that they don't have to save their status, not at all. However, in this situation, before the entire Slovenian public, I claim with full responsibility that we are dealing with what is now far from the key problems of this society and this country. Now, ladies and gentlemen, to return to this conclusion. Yesterday, a broad debate was held on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs on why we oppose this decision. Many arguments were made, and a report from this committee came today. I will briefly try to quote what is written, that we know what we said yesterday, that we are opposed to this decision that is proposed here. I was a little distracted by the fact that this report was written down by some discussers. I expected those who wrote this report to be aware that we were not some debaters, but were the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats who opposed this decision, and it would be right to be written that way. But I will quote what is written: "Some debaters..." – so we – "... they objected to the proposal because they felt that the CFSP had never been anti-constitutional and therefore they did not hold back the statements made by the motioners on the abolition of the anti-constitution decision." Well, they don't hold the line. That's right. That's what we're behind this time. We also defended the view that it is necessary to allow signatures to be collected for the referendum also because the above-mentioned constitutional law provides for the application of ZRRI directly with regard to the provisions of Article 1 of the Constitutional Law on the Call for Referendum and on the admissibility of the referendum. However, when applying Article 21 of the ZRLI, it shall specify the use by the Constitutional Court of its decision in a dispute between the candidate of the referendum and the National Assembly which rejects the call for a referendum. In our view, therefore, the meaningful and direct application of ZRLI is applicable to all articles except Article 21 of the same law, which itself provides for specific application by the Constitutional Law and is in accordance with Article 153 of the Constitution under this Act. I now proceed with the proposed conclusions under point 1. The first decision states: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations (ZZDR-D), EPA 257 /VII, refers to a law which, in accordance with the fourth indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia (Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 33/91-I, 42/97, 66/00, 24/03, 69/04, 68/06, 47/13 and 47/13), no invitation to tender and therefore rejects the invitation to tender. We oppose this decision because we are confident that whatever decision the National Assembly will take, this will be decided by the Constitutional Court, and the only Constitutional Court is that it will eventually take a decision, whatever it will take, and that will then be methocratic, whether the signing is continued or not. I think that those of you who have used this manoeuvre solely to stop the collection of signatures, and you are really afraid because, according to the information I have, today, 40,000 signatures have been collected and confirmed in the administrative unit. So you don't have to be afraid because what you've produced by adopting this law can't be stopped. Since you have adopted the law, you must also adopt the sequences that follow. And once again in this part, I say that those who voted in favour of the law in the National Assembly and also confirmed it must accept the responsibility for the costs incurred by this referendum because you adopted this law at the meeting of the National Assembly. If this law had not been adopted, the referendum would not have been possible and, as a result, no financial implications for the state budget would have been present. I would therefore also like to point out here the United Left, which is constantly telling us how we spend taxpayers' money, how we need to worry about the need to take care of all these vulnerable groups on the one hand, and on the other hand this party is putting into the procedure a law likely to result in payments from the State budget of between EUR 4 and EUR 5 million. Whether this is correct or fair or responsible is another question. I think you'll have to take some responsibility for the situation. Now, Mr President, because there has been a debate today on the law – I think all the debaters have debated, and I ask you to allow me to say a few more words about the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am very disappointed, I must say, and very sad that none of the coalition's discussers is telling the real truth about why this marriage would go to a referendum. Why? You keep trying to think of us as homophobes and saying that we oppose marriages and everything that belongs to same-sex partner communities. That's not true. It's a deception and it's a lie. We don't object! We are in favour of regulating their status in accordance with the legislation in force and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we have made it very clear and explicit, and this seems important to me that adoption of children is not the human right that you are always talking about – that you have prepared this law solely to resolve inconsistencies with the Constitution and in the part where human rights problems are not resolved. However, no one has ever said to this day that you have also put in a matter which is not human rights, this is the adoption of children of same-sex partnerships. That's not what you're saying? Why don't you say it?Oh, my God! You don't have to hide anything! We are honest, because we can discuss all things publicly, responsibly, properly and honestly, and let us say all things, not just the piece that suits us, but the other part that we miss. And at the same time, my colleague from SMC – I think Mr Zajc spoke before me about the fact that old parents can now be calm because they did not have this right before. However, he did not say that this law, and you voted for this law, extends the rights of adoption of children to same-sex partnerships, while old parents do not take into account the wishes of old parents who should have, I am absolutely sure, a priority right. If my daughter and her husband — God forbid anything ever happens because I have one, and I love her the most in the world — what happens, I also have a granddaughter, whom I love very much, but as an old parent I would not have the right to adopt my granddaughter under this law. I have no right! While the Centre for Social Work has the opportunity to assign my granddaughter to the same-sex partnership community for adoption. And let someone else say that's not true! Think carefully about what I'm talking about, please, and please don't let anyone say it's not true. That's right! That's why I think this is irresponsible and unfair. If we went to promote the rights of adoption of children and gave them to same-sex partners, why didn't we also allow old parents to do so? Why didn't we do it?Oh, my God! That's what I'm asking you. What's your responsibility to the old parents who've done this the way you are? And why are you avoiding these answers? Answer that. Let old parents all over Slovenia know how you feel about them. Let them know! Nothing wrong! Tell me! I must tell citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia before the entire Slovenian public that they will know the real truth. I'm not deceiving, I'm not telling lies, I'm talking exactly about what's written in this law. That's exactly what I'm talking about, and it's the right thing for everyone to know. I'm sure there's a lot of grandparents in this national council. And it is very sad, unacceptable and unacceptable to those who voted for such a law here in the National Assembly, but at the same time you did not do everything to have the right, if anything happens, but God forbid that it ever happens, adopt your own grandson or granddaughter. You didn't do it. I'll do everything we can to get to that. Either this time or I don't know when, I'll do anything because I think it's fair and fair. This would also be a responsible decision for all those who have grandchildren and grandchildren and sit as Members and Members of the National Assembly. I don't make a difference on the political side here, on the political line, but I speak from the heart as a man, as a grandfather, who my granddaughter means something to me, just like my daughter and her family do. And one more thing, dear, dear, respected friends. This referendum would not be possible if this law were followed by a procedure that is normal for such important issues. It's a normal procedure. You all know how the normal procedure for adopting legislation in the National Assembly is. No, you didn't. Therefore, I must say that to some of the parties who are sitting here, I resent that they did not have the power to press on the Government and say, "Look, we will not go through the short process, but we will go through a regular procedure to involve all the interested, all the broad civil society, the experts in the debate, and together we will find a compromise solution that will be written on the skin by so-called same-sex partnerships and they would be pleased." There would be no referendum on this law and together we could prove that we are a truly mature and reasonable democratic society that is aware of all the steps it is taking, and we are also aware of the sequence of steps that we have taken if they were bad, that we are still in the stage when we can influence it, and that we do not reach this point, such as today's meeting of the National Assembly. Look again, I speak many times in the National Assembly, and I wish that the parties sitting here in this House do not share in one, the other, the third, the fourth, the fifth, but we put on a table the topic and the legislation that is in common benefit, and we do not share in one way or another, we do not share in some ideology, but we are looking for solutions in which we find a compromise, and until we find this compromise in a broader context, we do not go to Parliament with such solutions. I think that Slovenia has these problems to share with you and ours, over the head, and also the Slovenian people have it all over their heads. That's why, once again, I'm going to finish because my colleague Grimes warned me on time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the adoption of this decision, because we are convinced that this decision is incorrect, because it would be right to have the situation of signing, if you have already produced the referendum, to the end, and to have the right to decide on the referendum, how and in what kind of society they want to live in, because the referendum is also human rights, and it is right to know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to be very short and sharp. I'm not going to explain long and wide my view and position on this amendment to the law. First of all, let me say that I will not support the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. To put it domestically, I will not support the proposal for a decision to prohibit this referendum by the National Assembly. Why not? Because for me a normal family is a man and a woman and a child born in such a family. Secondly, it is unacceptable for me that same-sex couples can adopt a child, including my grandson, as previously said. In short, me as an old parent and my wife as a grandmother can't have our grandson, if by chance, God forbid, there's such a situation, we adopt, we don't have that right, while anyone else, including the same-sex community, can. This is unacceptable to me, and I don't support it. But we're not going to say that we can have custody of our grandchildren, that's another matter. That we are here today is also an original sin in the way this novel law is adopted. It is clear to us that the Government, the Ministry of Labour, had its novelty prepared, but then suddenly it withdrew it from me for an unknown reason and summarized the amendment to the United Left Act. This is incomprehensible to me, and in this past parliamentary practice, as far as I know it - now I am in a third government - governments have not acted in this way. In short, he always advocates his own bill. Of course, not always by disregarding the opposition, but by such a way that the government always prepares a system law and is made by a normal procedure, not by a reduced procedure, then adopts it, and the general public has the opportunity to comment and then the best solution is found. However, I must also say that the signatures for today's extraordinary session were not given by the Desus Group, but by the Desus Group. As we voted on this law in the previous session, it is known that we were four Members against this law, three of them supported it, two of them abstained, and one was absent. For these reasons, I will not support the decision today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Katič has the floor to prepare the mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u111	Thank you, Chairman. I've been thinking about what to say about this subject, what to discuss, how to discuss. How to discuss in 2015 that we all deserve the same rights, something that should be self-evident. I respect different opinions. A lot of things have been said here today. I also respect those opinions that offend. People just act different. We also have two ears for it to go in with one another, out with the other, just as it was with me today. The only thing that can hurt me is the opinion that is expressed by someone I kind of love, whom I respect. A few years ago, when we adopted the family code to achieve greater public support, we made compromises. I didn't agree with it myself, but I was in a different role back then. However, we have witnessed exactly the same statements, the same actions by almost the same authors as now. That is why, even today, I do not believe in honesty that you want to regulate the rights of same-sex communities, as some claim. When I ask myself how to make a decision, I simply ask myself, What do I want for my loved ones, for my child? And the answer is also simple: I want him to live in a society where everyone has the same rights. If we just look at the international comparison, where everyone recognizes the wedding. In Europe: Belgium, France, Denmark, Iceland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom. A little wider: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, Uruguay, 37 U.S. states. However, if we look at our legislation, without amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the professional public has found that more than 70 laws are discriminatory to same-sex partners. And if we went to change each marriage individually, it could take years. Regrettably, however, there remains another discrimination which is the amendment of the law on marriage that does not eliminate, namely the provision of the law on fertilisation with biomedical assistance, since it expressly states that fertilization is only allowed to men and women who are in a marriage relationship. I would like to reiterate my thanks to all colleagues and colleagues who have contributed to the signatures so that we can make an assessment of the constitutional judgment before the Constitutional Court. I'll support the decision that's before us. I will support it because in the second millennium we must no longer allow a state in which we will not all have the same rights. Even so that my child does not ask me why another man, such as a neighbor, a friend, someone on the other side of the hall, does not have the same rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek, get Mr. Luka Mesec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u113	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I decided today on the initiative of the decision to reject the referendum, I received in my hands, as some of my colleagues have already said before me, the arguments that the referendum initiators have given me, the All-Slovenian Coalition for Children is going, as soon as I passed the administrative unit on Monday. I thought I could miss the first point in my argument, but I can't, because my colleague Pojbič asked why old parents can't adopt their grandson, why we're avoiding this question. The first point of this definition is that respect for the child's right to adopt the best environment for him is not possible, which includes the living community of women and men and the possibility of adopting his or her grandson. I think it's time for us to go even further into the definition of adoption. Because I don't know if there's a clear difference between adoption and custody. Because the definition of parenthood is the following. This is the relationship between a child and a parent that can be created in a natural way, that is the birth of a child, or in a legal way, that is adoption. And they're both treating each other the same way. So it's a new relationship that can't be broken. Adoption is a process where a parental relationship between a child and an adult who is not a biological parent is established on a legal basis. And essential: the relationship between the adoptive parent and the adoptive parent is the same as between the parent and the child, in a natural way. When the adoptive parent is enrolled as a child’s parent, the gentlemen you asked for this question are no longer able to identify paternity or motherhood. So the trail of motherhood has been erased. I'm not a grandmother yet, and I don't have grandchildren, but I am a daughter. And please, I really don't want my mom to erase the trail of me being a mom once. I don't want to. And even a child by the definition of marriage doesn't know who his parents are. Please. Is it logical that old parents do not adopt a child or not? It's me. It is logical, though, that they become his guardians if it is for the good of the child and for the benefit of the child. Even written down is the Caregiver is a person who has personal qualities and abilities, who must conscientiously care for the personality, rights and benefits of a protector and carefully manage his property. This could be a spouse, an extramarital partner, or a relative. I believe that the social work center will grant custody to the old parents, if that's for the good of the child. I hope this is a dilemma why parents can't adopt their grandchildren, we're done. Next thing. It really saddens me that we're so involved in whether or not they can adopt same-sex couples. Look, it's not about the right to adopt, it's about the right to express a wish, write a request, put yourself in line, get or not get a decision. I've been informed that many requests have already been rejected. You're not gonna believe this. This is a document of Procedures, organisations and standards in the field of adoption. In 2001, the number of applications submitted 742, rejected 350, adopted children 24. In 2008, application 424 approved 173. So it is already clear that more than half of those who make an application do not get a decision. So, we are not saying, please, that now that they get the right to same-sex couples, they will get this decision anyway. What's more, they're going to adopt your grandchildren. Well, that's just manipulation! And that kind of manipulation was also initiated when the family code was adopted. I'm sorry, I read the tape of 16. 6. Mr Pojbič also said at the time and the other thing is that it is the adoption of children of same-sex partnerships. These are two key things that the SDS will not support. Really? This adoption of same-sex partners was not possible, and I read you Article 232, which says If a child wants to adopt a spouse or an extra-marital partner or partner of a non-participating partner of one of the children's parents, the procedure for determining the conditions for adoption does not apply to provisions 227 to 231. Back then, you tricked people into adopting same-sex couples. Gentlemen, I don't understand why you rejected the family code when you did have exactly what you say today is disturbing, adoption and the definition of marriage. That was clear! Article 3: The marriage is a community of men and women whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this Code. The extramarital union, the partnership community was separated from the non-participating community. The family code set everything and you sent him to the referendum. That's why we don't believe that anything we prepare will not go to the referendum. And you know what, the arguments will always be the same, we're on the children's rights side. And run! Who now protects children born in the same sex? Tell me who's protecting them. Today, all these debates are branded for life. So I don't believe this is about kids. I don't even believe this is about your old parents and your grandkids. It's obvious manipulation. There's nothing else I can say. And you know what, it's really one thing, it's love. Fernando Pessoa said love is crucial, sex is just a coincidence. He also said be plural, like the universe. I add: the universe has accepted us all as we are. Let us be like the universe. I will therefore support the decision to reject the ZZDR referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I am also taking part in the view that the decision rejecting the CFSP referendum should be rejected. My content argument will be brief, simply because the referendum on human rights of the minority is not allowed. If we allow this referendum, the human rights of minorities will be decided by the majority. We know what this means, and we must by no means allow something in a democratic, civilised society of the 21st century to happen in such a way that most of the opinion on the human rights of the minority is coming. Technically or legally speaking, the matter is also completely clean. In fact, Article 90 of the Constitution makes it clear that the referendum does not allow for the disclosure of laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights, fundamental freedoms or any other unconstitutionality. Accordingly, Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative states that the National Assembly has the right to refuse a referendum to go in this direction. Here, there are two objections on the part of the opponents, both of which are twisted from the vine. The first objection is that Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative does not apply because, following the completion of the Constitution in 2013, this part, which deals with the inadmissibility of the referendum when it comes to human rights, has not yet been adopted constitutional law. But it is very clear in the transitional constitutional provision that Article 21 shall apply mutatis mutandis until this constitutional law is adopted. And it makes sense to use this article as it says. It is said that the National Assembly has the right to reject the referendum if human rights are questioned. Any other understanding would be pointless. However, the second objection which arises is that it has not yet been sufficient for assumptions, since Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative refers to the rejection of the referendum. Opponents say that we have not yet reached the stage of the referendum call because an initiative has just been given, not 40,000 signatures, which is a condition for the referendum. In this regard, we have also heard several times today that in a similar case in 1995, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that this is the same thing and that between these two stages of the procedure, which are essentially the same, incomprehensible distinction of any kind, or even sharper, and have written that different readings in a democratic society would be unacceptable. However, I would like to respond further to some of the observations that appear on the side of the opponents. The first is that the CFSP, in its existing form, has never been anti-constitutional. Here I must object because, in the decision we have proposed, we have clearly demonstrated in his explanation that the CFSP has discriminated in the same-sex way in some 60 laws relating to the establishment of a marriage. So what belonged to husband and wife in 60 different areas did not belong to husband and husband or wife and wife. And if we read Article 14 of the Constitution, which states that everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, it is clear that such a situation is unconstitutional and unacceptable. In this respect, the existing CFSP was unconstitutional, because it was in breach of Article 14 of the Constitution, according to the principle of equality before the law. He discriminated in more than 60 areas. Secondly, you say that you do not oppose marriages and everything else, which belongs to the same-sex partner community, but you only oppose adoption of children. We've seen this story since 2011. Perhaps you are not opposed to everything else, but now that we have adoption of children in our proposal – as soon as we withdraw it, you would take a step forward and find another loop, let's say that you are not opposed to same-sex relationships, but that this should not be defined as a family relationship, but it could be a partnership. And even if we took this step, we'd find another step to push things in a direction that suits you. In short, we have already seen this story in 2011, and those who now say that you do not oppose equality, except in the case of adoption, I would like to remind you that we had a referendum at the time on a law that did not foresee adoption. As my colleague has already said before me, in article 232 of the then law, adoptions in the same-sex partnership community have been excluded, but there has been a practical identical referendum and identical mobilisation as we see it these days. So we can't take this argument seriously. Thirdly, you're saying you're against this law because we didn't allow old parents to adopt. In 2011, again, that law enabled or arranged adoption by old parents, and you were also against it. We cannot take this argument seriously either. Otherwise, I would remind you that all the parties in this National Assembly have the right at any time to introduce into the procedure any law governing any area. We have introduced a law governing the area of the same-sex partnership. Today or tomorrow, if you are too busy with the session today, you can introduce a law that will regulate the area of adoption by your parents, if this is a problem that you find relevant and that you think should be settled. Judging by your discussions, this is it, and I urge you to put this in. In the United Left, if there are no unacceptable matters in there, we will not object. Then you say you're reminding us that the referendum is human rights. I couldn't agree more. As the highest expression of human will, I will always defend the referendum, except when it comes to the issue of minority human rights. At that time, however, it is simply unacceptable for the majority to allow them to judge the fate of the minority's human rights. Human rights are the basis on which we work, and they are the basis that must never be questioned. So much for a start, and thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! For you, Mr. Vice President, I have one request. At today's 40th letter meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an opinion on the proposal for a decision and so on. I am looking at the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where there is nothing written about this meeting. I ask you very much, Mr President, to obtain information on the convening of this meeting and on how long the ministers have had the opportunity to vote on this opinion. By the way, we got the material around 8:40. Please, and in advance, thank you for making my request come true. Colleagues and colleagues, Parliament is not the last instance to decide on people. Today, I am shocked that those of you who have advocated direct democracy yesterday have, in some ways, raised yourselves above the people or more precisely over the signatories of the request for a referendum. There's something else that's interesting. March 17, 2015, Modern Centre Party: The will of the people is stronger than the parliamentary majority. Yes, we are now 26th and, of course, this opinion changes every week. On the part of the United Left Group, it was said that we were listening to the voice of the past. May I also be allowed to see myself in here, showing myself to me or to Christian Democrats as the voice of the past. All right, if that's your grade. I'm just telling you that I am the voice of the present, even though I am in the back seat of this House, at number 90. Of course, some would like to silence the voice of Christian Democrats, just as they did in 1945. That's what's going on. You can remember certain graffiti from last year. Ladies and gentlemen, 25 years after the establishment of Demos – this is a shortcut that means the Democratic Opposition of Slovenia, which has actually made this country – you are today removing the demos. Demos is the Slovenian word of Greek origin and means a free people with political rights. Excuse me? With what political rights? You're oppressing them today. Today, with this decision, which I will gently reject, you are somehow closing the ramps on administrative units. Where is the will of the people now? Nowhere! I wonder how it will be possible to implement the 53rd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that the State protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection. And now I wonder what our key problem is. Our problem is not that two gays are getting married and two lesbians are getting married. I'm an authorized person to make marriages. I don't have any problems. I'll tell you what. But I have a problem with how the state will protect motherhood if the child lives between two gays. Tell me how the state will protect paternity if the child lives and develops between two lesbians. I can't find any answers here. And don't talk about it. You say people can decide how they live together. We knew that a long time ago. Ten years ago, we passed it. We were already saying what Francis said today, and you are quoting him nicely from the Social Democrats, a colleague of Matjaž Germany, who is not currently in the Chamber. But he only quotes the part of Francesco that suits him. It's not Francis' science, it's a science that's 2,000 years old, and we've taken it into account 10 years ago and enacted what we've enacted. And once again, our marriage is not ideal, so it needs to be adapted, modified and so on. But now I'm going to quote Francesca myself because you're abusing him today, you from the self-proclaimed rainbow coalition. I'm telling you, you're abusing him. Francis: "The law of one man and wife is not the same as the community of two persons of the same sex. Good distinction does not mean discrimination, but the opposite is respect. At a time when this highlights the value of cultural and social diversity, it is indeed contradictory to minimize fundamental human diversity. Father and mother aren't the same. We cannot teach future generations that preparing a family project, which we understand as a commitment to a permanent relationship between one husband and one wife, is exactly the same as being with a person of the same sex." Yeah. And I conclude: we are made to love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Horvat, the National Assembly has been given an opinion by the Government on the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. This is posted on the e-club on the website of the National Assembly. How the government accepted this document and how it did not accept it is not a matter of the National Assembly, but of the Government. And if she feels this need, the procedure will also be explained by Mrs Martina Vuk, State Secretary, who is present. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! I will start with this: we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and we are still working to regulate the rights of same-sex partners, but not in the way proposed, not in the Marriage and Family Relations Act. Let me remind you again, as has been mentioned several times, that during the 2004-2008 period our government passed the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership. And even on my part, there is no problem if this law is completed, reformed, and the name of this law changed if you are disturbed by the word registration. In 2009, the Constitutional Court imposed the abolition of unconstitutionality on Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership and not on our law on marriage, namely the issue of succession between partners. We tried to do this twice in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but there was no support for this. However, the Constitutional Court has also provided that equality in inheritance shall continue to apply from the decision of the Constitutional Court. The situation that violates human rights no longer exists. So there is no anti-constitutional situation in the exercise of the right of succession. On 24 May, Member Maša Kociper also gave an explanation of the new constitutional provision in article 90 when she presented a report on constitutional law as President of the Constitutional Commission. I read it yesterday on the committee, and I will still be here today because there were not all the Members present today. In her reply, she pointed out that there was a provision between provisions restricting referendum decision-making and a provision restricting decision-making on laws that abolish unconstitutionality. She said: "In this case too, the practice of the National Assembly will have to insist strictly on the reasoning given in the Constitutional Commission, so that only the articles which were proposed as non-constitutional by a decision of the Constitutional Court can be changed in order to eliminate unconstitutionality. Any reference to other content and related amendments to other provisions of the law will be inadmissible, as this would certainly avoid a legislative referendum." Although the purpose of this Article, which has been confirmed here, is clearly expressed in this National Assembly, namely that the limitation of the referendum relates only to the constitutionalities already established and not to the various contra-constitutions established by the proposers of the referendum ban. The abolition of non-constitutionality was also not given by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, but by the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership. The removal of unconstitutionality, which, according to my assessment, we can't even talk about, can't be the reason for the law to be dealt with in the short term. The legislative procedure after a reduced procedure seems really inappropriate to me. For the first time, because it takes time for such an important subject to discuss what we did not have. Secondly, because the amendment to the proposed articles, as we heard on the committee yesterday, affects 70 other laws, which means that we cannot say that it is a minor change, which has been highlighted here several times. And of course, without the slightest reservations, the vast majority in this national assembly also confirmed the reduced procedure. I'm really wondering why you chose a reduced procedure. The United Left has repeatedly highlighted the systemic discrimination of same-sex partners. And I'm going to stress, systemic discrimination. Or another word - systemic. This is the word that this coalition likes to use. Also the Ministry under which this law belongs. Let me just remind you that for the law that we have previously dealt with, which deals with the field of traineeships, you have imposed on the Ministry an additional three months of time on the initiative of the three representatives of the interested public to prepare an analysis and prepare a systemic solution. For the so important law we have here today, you agreed to a reduced procedure. I'm sorry, but I really don't understand logic here. In a very short time, more than 80,000 signatures of citizens and citizens were collected to submit a request for a referendum. And as is now known, 40,000 certified signatures have already been collected — in the chicks of three days! And that's not enough for you?Oh, my God! Isn't that a public interest?Oh, my God! According to my assessment, you have supported a very radical proposal that changes the definition of marriage, and this has evaluated marriage as a community of husbands and wives, which, in my opinion, still represents the basic civilisation cell of society and the only community that can naturally create a family. You won't be able to change that. I reiterate, I do not oppose the regulation of the rights of same-sex partners. But I cannot agree with the possibility of adoption. Especially because I'm wondering what's coming next. I agree that my child's upbringing is likely to be decided by me and my husband, and we have an impact on the child. What about school programs?Oh, my God! What's gonna happen next?Oh, my God! I don't know, pictures for kids in kindergartens, books for kids in schools that emphasize how normal this is! On the one hand, it is possible to encourage children to do so again. I'm afraid I can't agree with that. There was also a lot of talk about children living in single - parent families, children living in poverty. But, my dears, with this marriage, you will not save these children. But I very much agree that we should do something for these children. But I'm sure it's not with this law. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Children are not some toys that we buy when we want them to satisfy some of our needs. They're not even our right. They're our gift, and we really need to do everything we can to protect them. This is precisely why I cannot support this decision you are proposing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today, in this national assembly, we are discussing whether it is appropriate for this referendum to be carried out or not. We are talking about the admissibility of the referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. In fact, we are discussing human rights, respected and respected. About whether we recognize all citizens of the same human rights, i.e. same-sex and those who live in a community of diverse partners. I'm worried, I'm really worried that in 2015, in this national assembly, I think about the same-sex partners, we don't recognize the same human rights as all other citizens. Article 14 of the Constitution states that everyone shall be guaranteed equal human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, birth, education, social status, disability or any other personal situation. They're all the same before the law. By its decisions, the Constitutional Court has already developed a case-law in the field of discrimination pursuant to Article 14 of the Constitution. I'll give you an example. For example, decision U-I-284/94, where the Constitutional Court stated: "The principle of equality set out in Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution applies to all persons whose legal status is governed by law. The principle of equality is respected only if the same factual status or legal status are equally regulated in the law. For each different regulation, the legislator must have real and reasonable reasons. This means that the legislator must not act arbitrarily in regulating legal relations. To distinguish, then, there must be a reasonable, natural reason. Therefore, the legal distinction is consistent with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitution as far as the standard covers all and only those entities which are in the same position according to the purpose of the law." I will quote two more decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have indicated the need to regulate the area of same-sex partners. Although Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, under the personal circumstances under which discrimination is prohibited, explicitly does not indicate sexual orientation, the Constitutional Court in 2009 explicitly defined sexual orientation as a personal circumstance on the basis of which unjustifiable unequal treatment is prohibited: "In view of all of these, in the essential same factual and legal basis of the living communities, both registered same-sex communities and communities between women and men, it turns out that the distinction in the order of succession is based not on some real, non-personal different circumstances, but on sexual orientation. However, sexual orientation, although not explicitly stated, is undoubtedly one of the personal circumstances referred to in Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Constitution." And another case in which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ruled on equal treatment of persons of equal sex is related to the right of unregistered partners to inherit. In its decision U-I-212/10, the Constitutional Court found that it was inconsistent with the law on succession because it did not contain legal consequences in the area of legal succession as well as for the extra-marital partner as well as for the unregistered same-sex partner. This acknowledged the need to regulate the real life of the same-sex partners, since the decision of the Constitutional Court deals only with inheritance issues. More cases could be cited when it comes to infringements or denials of the rights of same-sex partners, i.e. those rights which are enjoyed by diversified partners. To conclude, I'd like to say the following. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations eliminates the discrimination of individual citizens, i.e. same-sex partners who have been violated by human rights as provided for in Article 14 of the Constitution. Respected and respected, the referendum on human rights is not admissible. And in the end. I do not understand how it is possible for us to understand so differently the laws and regulations of this national assembly. I also wonder what is the background behind the gathering of signatures for the referendum or against the holding of the referendum. It's about the kids, and I asked three questions because I don't think that's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say, I am pleased that my name brings smiles to the faces of coworkers and coworkers in this National Assembly. A little joke. The main focus of the Modern Centre Party programme is to ensure and respect the rule of law. Accordingly, in the SMC, we are constantly stressing and working towards ensuring equality before the law and respect for human rights. Today we are again, or we will certainly hear countless interpretations of the Rules of Procedure, which we have done for the first two hours of our session, then certainly also the Constitutions, which we are listening to during this debate, and ultimately the inappropriate interpretations of the adopted law and also in the debate of the proven deceptions that occurred during this debate. I am sorry that in this respected house, at the temple of democracy in the 21st century, we need to discuss who has more and who has less rights. This is totally unacceptable. Human rights are all the same, and this must be clear to all at that time. If we try to focus on today's proposed decision, which is likely to be voted on in the late evenings. It maintains that the referendum is a constitutional right, but also maintains that Article 5 of the Constitution makes it clear that the State in its territory protects human rights and fundamental freedoms. They're obviously gone by now. They are also mentioned in articles that I would have read but are too many, from Article 14, which establishes equality before the law, which was also mentioned by my predecessor, to Article 65. Thus, a very extensive part of our Charter is devoted to human rights. In my opinion, they are very satisfactoryly defined, even though they may be interpreted in their own way, but this has also become more than obvious Slovenian folklore. An essential Article of the Constitution on this issue is the 90th Article, which states that it is not permissible for the Referendum to discuss laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. With this, I also replicate to Mr Horvath, who is not currently in the Chamber, that we have not changed our minds in the SMC, but we have carefully reconsidered and found that this adopted law interferes with the area which I have mentioned, as defined in Article 90 of the Constitution. Otherwise, just for the orientation and plastic description of the referendum initiative, let me give some information and facts about the referendum that took place last time, and perhaps also as an answer to Mr Pojbič, who mentioned the costs and responsibility of the referendum. In the final referendum on archives, a total of one million 712 thousand 733 electoral beneficiaries had the right to vote. A total of 201 000 and a number of electoral beneficiaries raised this issue, accounting for 11.74% of all electoral beneficiaries. The referendum did not meet the required quorum, as set out in Article 90 of the Constitution, which states that the referendum must be attended and voted for or against at least 20% of the electorate or electorate. Has anyone accepted any responsibility?Oh, my God! Mr. Pojbich isn't here. He's probably somewhere he's listening. 3.5 million euros were used to carry out this referendum. 3.5 million euros. That's about 1.5 million school meals, that's about 4,000 800 minimum gross wages. Please, if you'll just let me say it to the end. That's about 23,000 scholarships. That's a lot. In short, in view of all the exaggerated and reported facts, I believe that the referendum on fundamental human rights is inadmissible and that is why today the National Assembly will also decide on this. I will also support the proposed decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum on human rights in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, get ready for Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I would say that not only am I sad but I am very disappointed at what we have been listening to in public for a few days now in this national assembly. That in 2015 we hope to talk about violating someone's rights, I think it is very unacceptable. The right to a way of life until we interfere with the lives of others is only ours, if you want to write it one way or another. And it doesn't matter whether we like the way we live the same sex, we agree with him, we support him — we don't have the right to tell others how they live. At the very least, you have the right to exploit children for propaganda against this law. The Children's Coalition is collecting signatures. I would like to know, dear colleagues, where when inside, by your definition, normal families children suffer and abuse! Where's the coalition going for the kids?Oh, my God! Then where do you collect your signatures?Oh, my God! That's when they should be! Emergency! You are exploiting children's rights for political purposes, and that is absolutely unacceptable! And I can't get past one thing. I cannot help but say that the Roman Catholic Church has been so actively involved in this whole story. I can't. Of course, the Roman Catholic Church is part of our society and has the right to express its opinion, but I also ask them where they are when child abuse takes place within this institution. Do you then collect and collect signatures to prevent children from entering those premises?Oh, my God! And that's what proved to be happening! No, then there's no children's coalition, then everything's different. And when church companies make billions of holes in our banks, which all taxpayers have to cover – where are you then, dear colleagues, by collecting signatures to return the church to the taxpayers a billion? I give you my word that I will guarantee in this national council a majority that we will distribute this billion to the children so that they will no longer be hungry. It would be the responsibility of those who really care about your children. Abuse of children for political purposes is unacceptable. When we know our children to show and tell them all together that it is necessary to respect people regardless of their beliefs, regardless of their sexual orientation, this society will be substantially different. But with what we are discussing today in the National Assembly, we are working sadly, ladies and gentlemen, on everything else. And it does not provide for the constitution, but it provides for the constitution that most do not have the right to decide on a minority. And as my colleague said, be it one or be it a thousand, 5,000 or 10,000, he has no right to decide how people in Slovenia should live.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u127	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Two points are important for the topic that we are dealing with today. For the first time, the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which is now required to be decided by the referendum, has suspended discrimination between same-sex couples. By changing the definition of marriage and extramarital communities, same-sex couples have ceased to be discriminated against in areas covered by a few ten laws. These include the provision of important rights, such as inheritance, health and social protection, labour law, criminal procedure and so on. Secondly, in the event that the initiative or request for a referendum relates to the law referred to in the fourth indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution, the National Assembly must establish that the referendum cannot be declared. This part of Article 90 of the Constitution provides that it is not permissible to present a referendum on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. Why we have such a constitutional arrangement, it is clear. It is already a common human civilisation principle that the social system protects minorities, that the rights of minorities cannot be decided by the majority when it comes to human rights or fundamental freedoms. Therefore, the novel was necessary and must be enforced and the referendum rejected. The main pretense, or reason — whether it is pretense or reason — is the alleged problem of the fact that the same-sex partners have the right to adopt a child by implementing the novel. This would violate children’s rights and would be contrary to some kind of natural law and God’s commandments. However, the theory of the harmful consequences of the adoption of children by same-sex couples is inappropriate, statements by professional societies, both foreign and domestic. The Society of Psychologists of Slovenia has clearly defined this issue: "Children of heterosexual and homosexual parents do not differ in terms of anxiety, depression, self-image, social adaptability and similar aspects. Also, children from families with partners of the same sex have no development deficits, as the opponents of the law try to show." Similarly, in a joint statement, the Council of Clinical Psychologists, the Association of Psychotherapists and the Department for the Development Psychology of the Ljubljana Faculty of Philosophy stated: "The recruitment of psychological and psychotherapeutic professionals in attempts to limit rights to children who do not live in the classical family community, especially those who live in families with same-sex parents, is strongly opposed." In doing so, they point out that children must have rights that enable them to have an equal level of safety, stability and parental care. Therefore, it is important that all the key conditions for child development in the family are given and that the quality of parenthood and the educational style, as well as the quality of relationships and satisfaction with relationships, are the basis for deciding whether or not to adopt. And precisely that, the ability of a couple or some family to create a quality, safe and loving environment for a child who needs a foster parent, because of natural loss in one way or another, is crucial in deciding who can adopt an orphaned child. A gender of partners competing for adoption does not play any role. Whether a given couple are fit enough to adopt a child is decided by the relevant services, shall be decided by the experts who have the expertise to decide on it. This cannot be judged by policy, neither by civil society itself nor by civil society. However, if we look at the opponents of the law and advocates of the referendum, the picture is very recognizable. In this action, civil society was organised by SDS, more or less by this group of so-called persistents, who previously defended prisoner Janez Janša and now is concerned about children. The Roman Catholic Church, one of the political actors in our country and a strong ally of the SDS, was also missing all logistics and machinery of the impressive apparatus. As we all remember well, last year the Slovenian RDC declared its alliance with the SDS explicitly, publicly and without provocation, and this alliance also lasts in a project entitled For Children. It is clear that it is attempting to mobilize the political body again after it has become clear that the established receptions are no longer effective. Janez Janša's spell has faded slightly, and cohesion within the SDS may not be so monolithic anymore, and voters have left them to a considerable extent after a series of criminal affairs by some of their leading members. And when last year’s attempts to reanimate and gain people with ideologically chewed themes failed in the piano, this was by means of an archival referendum and the theatrical departure of the leader to the Age or the torture of an alleged political prisoner, it was necessary to cut down on something stronger. And what is more convenient than the evergreen protection of the masses against a minority that is vulnerable and exposed and that can be attributed to evil purposes on average, for example, by gaining equality, she will use it to abuse children. In history, there have been a number of dire cases of attacks to a minority in which they have been credited with all kinds of possible and impossible evils, and a certain political option has gained strength from hostile crowds who have finally received the sinning goat, who are to blame for their misery, failure, and become the target for releasing frustrations. It is particularly sad that the referendum, which is supposed to challenge the rights of minorities, supports and encourages the Roman Catholic Church. Christian principles of mercy, solidarity, love of neighbor, slogans that we are all God's children, somehow fall into a strange light when we observe the action of a civil initiative For children it is going on in full cooperation with the RCC. Attempts to alert the traditional Catholic public are marked by biblical quotations that reveal some kind of prejudice of a pastoral people who lived in Palestine more than 2,000 years ago, explaining society, nature, life and death in a manner appropriate to their present cultural level. And for this people, homosexuality was a crime to be punished with death. I quote what we have heard many times today: "If anyone lies with a man as he lays with a woman, they have both committed abomination. Let them be put to death; their blood fall upon them." Today, at least in societies of Western civilization, otherwise in some Islamic country or Saudi Arabia, homosexuality is no longer a crime, at least not officially. However, it also feels that the ancient relic of hostility and denial of fundamental rights to different, that is to say, same-sex-oriented, remains on European soils, quite lively. For example, this is what theologian David Berger, former editor of the conservative Catholic newspaper and visiting professor of the Papal Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas in Rome said a few years ago that Der Spiegel had demanded the end of the same-sex church discrimination. He said, "It must be admitted that a large part of Catholic clerics and deacons in Europe and the United States are prone to homosexuality." He added: "The greatest hatred for homosexuals comes from homophobic priests who are frantically struggling with their own sexuality." That the Roman Catholic Church has serious problems with homosexuals, is also evidenced by Pope Francis' statement in 2013 that he will face a gay lobby operating within the walls of the Vatican. This is a lobby under investigation investigating the homosexual orgy of high-ranking RDC dignitaries, including underage male prostitutes. So it seems that the clergy in the RCC have a lot of problems in their own species, but this should not be the reason to deal with homosexuals all the time. Hypothetically: How would the RCC react when a civil initiative arises and the procedure for collecting signatures for a referendum is initiated to prevent, for example, the priest's regulation from working with children if we know a lot of cases of pedophilia in their species? And they would refer to resounding affairs when, in some cases, the entire diocese of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States went bankrupt for compensation to many victims of pedophile priests, such as the bishop of Los Angeles, who had to pay an estimated $600 million for 500 victims of pedophilic experiences of his priests. And this is just one case that I'm referring to. Or they would refer to the resounding cases of Slovenian priests who fled before the hand of justice to suicide or to flee abroad. Or they would refer to the horrific cases of child abuse and even their deaths due to neglect in an orphanage managed by the RCC in Ireland decades ago when their bodies were unrelentingly thrown into a cemetery after they died. In doing so, we could refer to the clergy’s predisposition to homosexuality a number of times, and all of this could be illustrated by some distasteful comments on their dress and so on. Or they would also see the unpredictability of the Roman Catholic Church, because much of their clergy, such as monks and nuns, live in some kind of same - sex communities. Perhaps the Roman Catholic Church, with a piece of politics in such a case, would trigger the noise of ideological pompousness, the denial of the right to express religious emotions, religious education and so on. However, SMC does not advocate such restrictions on the rights of priests of the RCC in pastoral work, nor does it consider any similar civil initiative. I just wanted to say that some civil society can happen very quickly to the clergy, because they are themselves a sociologically minority, which according to most people is quite different and has its own specialities, so it seems, and more so after doctrinal sciences and the attitude towards the same-sex minority, which unfortunately does not have much in common with modern life. I certainly believe that the referendum should be strongly rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! When the constitution dies, there are a lot of undertakers, especially those with a doctorate in law. We have been able to observe this today and lately in this national assembly. By the way, what did we just see? We've just seen an epiphany, it's so classic, it's called Her, look, and the church is mobilizing its people. When, though, should the church speak if not when it comes to fundamental values? This is her mission. But those of you who have now debated, you have spoken within the meaning of Article 63, the prohibition of incitement to intolerance. It is unconstitutional to promote religious and other hatred – exactly what you do when you use hatred of the church, the one that drags on from 1945 to today. People have this as an internal enemy inside of them, and you're trying to mobilize your constituents, and you're obviously acting against the Constitution because you're spreading religious hatred. But don't talk about it or write about it, those self-proclaimed, I don't know, cartels or anything to prosecute hate speech, and of course they won't notice it. So much for the introduction. Where such ideological coercion is carried out to the extent that we have witnessed in this national assembly by the ruling coalition with the unselfish assistance of the United Left, this is done for some purpose. What's the point? No one in Slovenia now knows, in my opinion, that a billion loans had been leased in the preceding month, that about a billion more had been leased last month, so that one billion loans had been borrowed again this month. This is not the subject of discussion or writing, because then we should talk about how the transition left is devastating for the economy, for development, for the country and for everything. And then one of these is thrown down. And when an ideological theme is cast, as it were said, the constitution dies. Now let's see what beautiful things you've trampled from the Slovenian Constitution. The first thing that is being suppressed, with what is happening now, is the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Slovenian Constitution, which states that in Slovenia has the power of the people; it is being exercised directly and indirectly by elections based on the principle of the division of power. But he's putting it first. How do many of you treat them in countries that are democratic, such as Macedonia or Croatia? There all the parties, without exception, including the former communists, agreed that they had given their word and said let us leave the decision to the people because it is the authority of the people, and go to a consultation referendum, whether we should write the family in such or in a different form into the constitution. The decision was made by a two-thirds majority in the referendum that the family was a community of men and women and children. And that's what they wrote in the constitution. That's how democratic states do it. But those who are avant-gardeists who have some of the past 60 years in the blood today, either by parents or by themselves, are doing their will. And they talk a lot about human rights. How much we have heard today about the human rights of homosexuals! What about the human rights of the most vulnerable groups protected by international conventions? These are the kids. That wasn't so much to hear. That's what you talk about in the street when you collect signatures, and in here it goes with a laugh. It says a lot about those who do this, I have to say, and also about the state of the spirit in this country. Why do I say there have been quite a few articles of the Slovenian Constitution? See, the moment you wrote down in the law something that imposes a different concept of family, as understood by everyone and as derived from natural law and from, you will not believe, the UN declaration, to which I come a little later, you have begun to do something that is clearly contrary or at least extremely problematic in the light of Article 41 of the Slovenian Constitution, which says Parents have the right to provide their children with education in accordance with their beliefs. The guidance of the child with regard to moral education must also be in accordance with freedom of religion and other definitions or beliefs. I'm not gonna read the whole article. You can read it yourself. It's a little awkward. Even more embarrassing is the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that when we come to one particular feature of the Slovenian Constitution, we are slightly different from most other countries, because we are subject to Article 8, which I will quote in full: laws and other rules must comply with the generally applicable principles of international law and with international treaties that oblige Slovenia. Ratified and published international treaties shall apply directly. That's what the Slovenian Constitution says. Do you know what that means? That international acts, once ratified and published, are practically above the Constitution or at least equivalent to it, and that laws must be, you will not believe, consistent with these acts. Ouch! Now let's see what you've done with this law. We have a general declaration on human rights. It was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 1948. In Article 16, the real family is a natural and fundamental cell of society and has the right to social and state protection. If anyone thinks that two men are together when a train is played, a natural cell, well, I allow him to continue to enjoy his knowledge cheerfully, but legally this is a somewhat awkward matter, for these things must always be read as a whole, and you will not believe, and the first paragraph of this article says that they establish a family of full-year-old men and women. Be careful — and, no or. For those of you who don't know what that means in law, although many of you are doctors, there is a constitutional law professor at the head of one of the parties, and you know that very well. Therefore, it was also a change of attitude every half hour, so that we will probably have a weather forecast on TV tonight, and a forecast of a change of viewpoint of the SMC. The awkward thing is, if it's written and it's binding. It is said that only men and women can form a family. Both conditions must be met, not male or female. This is the thing that binds us, and according to this should be our marriage. You know it's not. That's an awkward thing to say, isn't it? That means what? This means that not only should the Constitutional Court in no way agree with the prohibition of a referendum if you vote today. Moreover, if this law were to be enforced, the Constitutional Court should immediately abolish it, because it violates article 41 of the Constitution, once again, and interferes with the right of all parents in Slovenia. Secondly, it violates Article 2 of the Constitution. Thirdly, it violates Article 8 of the Constitution and ratified international acts. That's not all. Indeed, we have adopted, ratified and published the Convention on the Rights of the Child, including the United Nations, which was adopted on 20 November 1989 and entered into force on 2 September 1990. What does Article 3 say there? For all activities relating to children, either they are managed by state or private social welfare institutions, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the main benefits of the child must be guidance, ladies and gentlemen. All the time, but you can go see for yourself all your discussions, the main guide of this novel law was the same-sex rights, not the rights of children. After an international act, which is applied directly, binds all of you directly, and is even above the constitution in this part, the children's rights must come first. Not only should the Constitutional Court, if you are really going to vote against the referendum today, by no means should it give this right, but the Constitutional Court should, if this law is enforced, simply repeal this law because it does not comply with everything that I am so far. When we speak of freedom of conscience, you know well that this is in the chapter of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that it is not in any way permissible to interpret or restrict them in any way beyond the framework set out in the Constitution itself. After that we are also a little special in the Slovenian Constitution. If anyone doubts that he should read the last paragraph of Article 15: No human rights or fundamental freedoms regulated by legal acts in force in Slovenia shall be restricted by an excuse that this Constitution does not recognise it or that it recognises it to a lesser extent. So, once again, for what is directly applied, it means that they should be absolutely in adopting a law that touches children's rights in the first place, throughout the marriage. Everything else is subordinated to it. Not someone else's right over their children's rights. We all know it's a vulnerable group, but the most vulnerable group are children. Therefore, under international law and our Constitution, they enjoy special protection. But you've all forgotten that since you passed the law, and today in this debate. But this is the part that is most relevant to the Constitutional Court. I firmly hope that we have the Constitutional Court, which is worthy of this word, and that it will respond appropriately, first by allowing a referendum, and secondly by allowing such a law to be enforced at any time, now or at any time later, to duly repeal all those provisions which are contrary to what I have already quoted. Now for the end of some notes. I've already told you why this topic is actually open. So we don't talk about borrowing. Some of the problems mentioned earlier were that many who had calculated with shares and the like. But if it's a publically obvious president of that government who's most indebted to Slovenia in history, it's a little, kind of funny. That's why she ran out when I got the word. She knew what was going to happen. On the other hand, I need to warn you about something. When you rely so much on the rights of homosexuals, the most famous same-sex couple and, as far as I know, the most successful economic and other criteria are the Dolce & Gabbana couple. Dolce & Gabbana publicly objected to any possibility that homosexuals could adopt children at any time and under any circumstances. Why? Because you know that such children would be stigmatized. If you don't want to listen to anyone else, give them to me. They're the same sex. They know, they said publicly what it would mean for a child. If he's in one of those classes, everyone's gonna be a fool. The baby will be stigmatized. This is certainly not the optimal environment that a child needs. What's more, they said themselves that a child needs a father and a mother for normal mental development. That's a fact. It's an unforgivable fact. There's certainly no better environment than this and there can't be. And don't say it forces, I don't know, one church or another religious community or anything. This, ladies and gentlemen, which you have all forgotten, is stated in the international acts ratified by Slovenia and used directly in Slovenia. The general declaration on human rights states that the family is a fundamental natural cell, and as a condition for the establishment of a family gives both men and women, but not men or women, which then in interpretation, those who really know each other mean what you have written in marriage. The family is a community of men and women, and such a community enjoys special protection under international acts. This protection is not only intended for the existence of a society, but primarily for the protection of children. In particular, children are protected by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Once again, I warn you, and never forget it, the third article of this Convention, which states that When a legislative body is occupied, must be the child's primary guide.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Here you go, replica, Dr. Matic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u131	Mr. Grimes, you mentioned something in your speech when someone used an hate speech. I don't know if you meant me because you didn't name names. I must point out that in my speech, I have relied on generally available information in newspapers, even foreign ones, if you do not trust us, that the Roman Catholic Church has very serious problems with pedophilia, homosexuality in its own order, as well as neglecting the children who have been entrusted to it. I cited the fact that the Roman Catholic Church supported the SDS before the previous elections explicitly. I also cited the fact that he is now in agreement against this law, which eliminates discrimination against homosexuals. These are all verifiable facts that I have mentioned and mentioned and are generally accessible. You can look at them anywhere, they're available in public news. So I reject any evidence of an enemy speech, and please, if it flew me to think a little bit more about the merits of your accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u133	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe that we are neither qualified nor competent in this place to explain the Constitution and also whether a matter is constitutional, unconstitutional and similar. We still have the Constitutional Court, and I fully trust him that even in this case, if it is finally so decided, he will be able to make the right decision. I also simply believe that there are issues that the majority of the referendum cannot decide. Finally, this is confirmed by the last amendment to the Constitution. However, there has not yet been some appropriate legal practice on what it really means in this area. I don't know how the Constitutional Court will end. But I know that I am and that I would once again give my signature against this referendum, which I think is preposterous, that it is unfair to a minority of people who otherwise acquire certain rights that are equal to ours, and that it is a referendum on the novelty of the law with which no one among us takes anything. I believe that all those who advocate these views are acting in our own conscience and in our own conviction, and I see nothing wrong with this. But I think that, to some extent, child abuse is also present for this purpose. Indeed, even if a referendum were to take place, it would no longer decide on human rights or the elimination of human rights violations by a minority, but the basic question is whether or not same-sex couples can adopt children. And that's what people would decide. But I think it's right that we are aware that the same-sex-oriented people live normally among us, are our friends, are our acquaintances, they are. And I don't see any reason why we shouldn't have the same rights as all of us. And something else that seems important to me – that these same-sex-oriented people are not the same-sex-oriented because someone would have miseducated them to become same-sex-oriented, but are oriented in this way. Each of us could have a child who is or will become the same sex-oriented. I believe that most people don't want it, and I believe there are many who leave this decision to the child. However, I am sure and I hope that few who, because of such a child's orientation, would reject it or who would believe that this child is a worse person because of his sexual orientation, that he has less rights. And that he should hide his focus from his parents for the rest of his life or be deprived in a certain area. I wouldn't want that for my child. On the other hand, I believe that many other characteristics are those who make a man with a great C, a man who is honest with some values, not least a man who is happy. And that's probably what this is about. In addition, I think that in all the debates no one has ever served with one single proof that these children would be, even if adopted by the same-sex partners, deprived. In what? Would they be raised to be like themselves? You can't do that. Would they therefore be more frequently abused than children in other mixed marriages? And that's probably not gonna hold, and there's no evidence of that. So, essentially other things are that affect the development of a child, that it will be successful, that a person who will be proud of himself and from whom society can have something. On the contrary, many children are marked and in a different situation today, not because they live in such communities, but because they live in families that do not allow them to develop, in families that are plagued by alcoholism, in families where they are actually abused. But we've probably gotten a little used to it, and most of us don't worry. But perhaps we are concerned about some possible adoptions, where these children could develop perfectly normally. Once again, there is no reason for it to be self-evident that their development will go in the wrong direction. I therefore hope, once again, that the referendum, where we would in some way make a biased decision, will not take place. But there is a decision in the Constitutional Court, and today we do not know what it will be like. I believe that such a referendum is not permissible and that the final decision will be so, at least I hope it will be. Above all, I am convinced that even after the adoption of this new marriage, no one is less or less a father or a mother and that my mother will always be a grandmother to my child, and never a mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor to prepare Dr Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting on my behalf too, colleague and colleague, distinguished public! I am not truly free to cut off freedom from anyone else; nor am I free when I am deprived of my freedom — Nelson Mandela. I've already read his mind in this room. When we read when we are preparing for the debates, when we are preparing for the meeting of the National Assembly, we always find a great deal of energy, desire, power, only to find the right path together to moderation, to tolerance and, above all, to try to change our society. Indeed, society is constantly changing and adapting to the circumstances. When I was alone 15 years ago with my peers, we kind of tolerated equality, same-sexness, and today, as I was then, living with her, talking about her, is part of their everyday life. In 15, 20 years there have been remarkable developments in this area, and the Social Democrats have always wanted to be with us. In a way, we carried or we wanted to bear the responsibility to introduce into our society some new, different rights, in particular to help young people change and change the world. At least since 2008, I say at least because this is the period when social democracy took over power in our country when we led our social democratic government – since 2011 we have been actively engaged in this, and a referendum was launched in 2012. And as my colleague Andreja Katič mentioned earlier, despite endless efforts, searching for dialogue, tolerance – in fact, we have done things, as we like to say, by the book, through the textbook, looking for dialogue, public debates, we have participated in them, we have encouraged, we have sought compromises – this has been virtually impossible. What is happening today is not a political process, but a process of developing a society. The voters trusted us, and five of the seven political parties today advocate one and the same. Five out of seven political parties are in favour of change, advocating a campaign for the future. It is perfectly normal and understandable, and the Social Democrats understand that we cannot all agree on this, but we are always very pleased that we are all together, even that the largest coalition party as a last party has joined us in these thoughts and in our initiatives. Let me mention that in recent months, when we talked about this and when we adopted the amendment of the law, this is the news that was most often mentioned in 2015 in addition to sports achievements. I'm talking about international media. Slovenia was widely referred to as being tolerant, without prejudice, progressive, confident, as a country with a great social sense, where everyone has the same opportunity to develop, and we have read this with great pride in the international press. After many years, this is something very good, positive, as I said before, in addition to sports achievements, that we could read in a foreign newspaper. Slovenians come from a very strange period. After we acknowledged all the success of economic growth, when we gained confidence with it or too much, when we allowed ourselves too much, it may be one way out of not only the economic, financial, social or even moral crisis we have. Perhaps this is one small entrance to a new period of tolerance that we so urgently need in our society. Indeed, this debate is not just about tolerance for the same-sex. We're talking about tolerance in general. The tolerance of the Roma, the deleted, the aliens, the immigrants, the forbidden, which is very difficult to talk about, the partisans, the patriots. We're talking about tolerance between Slovenians, tolerance towards ourselves and tolerance for others. That's what we're talking about. That is why it is important today that we take a step further, and there are more and more of us in this. I fully understand and monitor the activities also led by the Roman Catholic Church. Why did I mention it earlier because Mr. Horvath, whom I respect, and he knows so much? Because God is no stranger to me, and I will not allow any individual, organization, civil society, or political parties, to have exclusive religious communities on God. And that's the way it has to be. I quoted the Pope, but I wasn't the only one. But in his basic message, the pope says that we must be tolerant of one another, to the people, basically to the people. We are all human beings, and we must treat ourselves as such, no matter what color we are, where we come from, what sexual orientation is — we are basically all human. That is also what the pope is talking about, and we must stick to it. About everything else that goes further from here, we can talk about manipulation, about abuse. We have to respect each other. And if I give my sincere opinion, Pope Francis, in my opinion, in addition to the great 19th century, the 20th century – I am talking about Mandela, Gandhi, Cheju Guevara, if you like – belongs to the great and is a revolutionary. Why? Because he's making a revolution in the church, and I like that very much. Believe me, many infidels are very pleased to be accompanied by events in the church when you have such a leader in the church, and so it must be — to return to those basic values that are not only left and not just right but are of all of us. History has repeatedly abused them, and we all know that because we all know history or not, at least we have heard of it. It is man who has always intervened dramatically into the abnormal course of human affairs. And if we give people human rights back, we've done a lot for it. Allow me to give my full responsibility to reject the referendum, not to take on anyone's referendum rights, but to do so. In a political sense, we have restricted the referendum, and we know why. Because there have also been anomalies in this regard when the minority has made decisions on referendum initiatives instead of the majority, but unfortunately so. We had such a system, and we were all relatively in agreement with it, and we now have such a system, and we must accept it. Let me get this straight. It seems to me that this will be one step forward, no matter how many of us there are — or five out of seven — which is very commendable, and more and more of us — in order to learn to love and love each other, especially that we live and let live, because we will only develop into some modern, patient and progressive, premeditated society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Marine, please. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare for Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Today, the question is whether we will limit the right to a referendum, which is the right set out in Article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is in the chapter on human rights. What does this article say? Every citizen shall have the right to participate directly or through elected representatives in the management of public affairs, in accordance with the law. 90. Article 90 of the Constitution clearly provides that this right is limited, namely that a referendum is not allowed to be negotiated on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. We therefore have the competition of two human rights, two fundamental human rights, those of equality before the law referred to in Article 14 of the Constitution and those of direct cooperation under the law. In doing so, the right to a referendum is limited in the Constitution itself. I think we need to repeat once again what human rights protection is meant for. It is intended to protect minorities, deprived groups that have the majority, because the majority is the government in the country and can take decisions that are in favour of this majority. That is exactly what the provisions on the protection of human rights are designed to limit. So, the referendum in our constitution is explicitly limited, and this will of the majority is limited by the fact that the referendum on the law that eliminates unconstitutionality in the field of human rights is prohibited. What I think we need to be aware of is that the country is under international instruments regulating human rights – we have heard a lot about them, even today – which are part of our law, and I also agree with colleagues who exercise law, and who are also over our law and directly applicable, must ensure respect for human rights. This obligation applies to the National Assembly, which forms part of the state’s authority, one branch of the state’s authority. So this obligation also applies to us Members. May I remind you, my fellow Members, of the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment, ZUNEO. What does this law provide for in Article 7? The National Assembly and other bodies shall create conditions for equal treatment of persons irrespective of any personal circumstances by raising awareness and monitoring of the situation in this field and by means of measures of a normative and political nature. Therefore, to ensure that the prohibition of discrimination is respected is our duty, the duty of the National Assembly as a legislative body. We don't have a choice here whether we would or not, but it's our duty. We are bound by international instruments and are also bound by our legislation, which is based on the Constitution and international treaties. I am sad to see that many of us forget this duty and that some Members use their position to spread fear and create an atmosphere of fear, which in certain cases also has elements of hate speech. Maybe you've looked around, maybe you're not where the article defines what hate speech is. Article 297 KZ-1 of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a crime that is being prosecuted for official duty, but I believe that prosecutors in this country, where so many cases still need to be investigated, probably do not have time to prosecute these crimes. And since we're part of the legislative body [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please, can I speak? Thank you very much, dear colleague Gorenak. Given that we are part of the legislative body, we have the duty to respect the constitutional rules in our work in the National Assembly, in what we declare and what our opinions are. Also, thinking that we have immunity – again someone will tell me that we have immunity and that the Member will never invoke immunity. But the Member's criminal responsibility for his opinion or the vote expressed in the National Assembly is excluded under Article 83, criminal responsibility for what we say here in plenary and in working bodies. If someone brought a private action on the basis of criminal liability, it would be dismissed. In this regard, I should like to draw attention to the following: This criminal immunity – I'm talking about criminality because some people have told me that I don't know what I'm talking about, but let me take a look at the comments of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia – does not protect us Members from this 63rd article, mentioned by a fellow Grimes, who is not here now. He says that any encouragement to national, racial, religious, and other inequalities is prohibited, as well as the spread of national, racial, religious or other hatred or intolerance. So the MP's immunity doesn't protect us from this. Nor does it protect us from what is provided for in Article 297 KZ-1. Otherwise, it is civil liability, and that is not subject to immunity. So, dear colleagues who are laughing now, look, I warmly advise you, Article 177 and Article 178 of the Bond Code. Learn about what civil responsibility is, which immunity does not apply. In short, we are responsible for our activities in the National Assembly. We don't just have rights, we have responsibilities. And our responsibility, because we are part of the legislative body, is to act in a way that prevents discrimination and to take such legislative measures as to eliminate discrimination and not to legislate it. What shows in the speeches we have witnessed, including in Parliament when discussing the novel and whether we will allow a referendum or not? Above all, there is a lack of teaching precisely about our duty in the National Assembly to protect human rights, including by our actions, and that this is our responsibility. We are that state authority that, if it is able to eliminate discrimination, it must do so. He doesn't have a choice, whether he does or doesn't, but he has to stop discrimination. If we don't do this, we're responsible for human rights violations. I note that we already know in Slovenia that we do not even have an effective body to deal with cases of discrimination. Otherwise, after the ZUNEO, there is an authority that advocates the principle of equality, but the European Commission has already warned us that this is not an appropriate body, and there is still work to be done in this area. We also lack a neutral national institution for the protection of human rights, which we should have through all international instruments protecting human rights. This institution could say what hate speech is, and also point to what it is and what it is not, promote human rights and do a lot of things. But the primary duty is also for us to prevent discrimination, to eliminate it, and, as I am talking about it here, to point out that it is discrimination, not to agree with it in silence. Let me conclude with the thought that we must allow discrimination to be eliminated, even though perhaps one of us personally disagrees. But it's human rights, which is one of the most important human rights. Colleagues and colleagues, we are now in the 21st century. Now we know the earth is round. We also know that the earth revolves around the sun and not the other way around it, and there are many things that have caused many people, in the name of truth and belief, to suffer in their own right, for centuries. We also feel that we are all equal, regardless of the color of the skin, that women have electoral rights and so on. Eppur made flies – And yet it is spinning, said Galileo Galileo, and in spite of this he was forced to utter an unreal scientific knowledge that is now a commonly known fact. In fact, the earth revolves around the sun and not the other way around. But that's when most people thought otherwise. Therefore, I propose that we take human rights as it is appropriate for modern democratic states and prevent the majority from taking over where such domination cannot be. We're going to do this in a way that prevents a referendum that can't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor to prepare Mr Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At first, I must say that I am disappointed that you did not react to Dr. Matić's previous discussion, who has been spittin' at our client, our activities, marking us with no idea what. I think we should react here. On the other hand, I must also say to Mr Matić that we cannot blame him. He's a doctor, he was the director of the archive, he's an MP, but he doesn't even know when statehood day was, and he's on his own, and I can't blame him for that. If we move on to the second point. I have now heard one debate on human rights and the Constitution, and this is what the Member of Parliament has been talking about, which has violated human rights twice in this term over the past six months. I would therefore ask that we also put what we are saying into practice. This is a major policy issue. We take everything here, and we're the best, after the realisation comes, but there are problems. I'm here by myself, almost even a part of the agenda. I also have experience and it is generally known that a person works quickly especially when he has a bad conscience. Let's take a look at how this meeting convened in a hurry. The law was filed on short notice. The meeting wants to be held after a reduced procedure. The logical conclusion is that the rainbow coalition has a bad conscience, and I think it is right that it has it, because the law has been confirmed for the last time without a single public debate without a single public debate. No one was invited to say anything. Let's make a quick emergency meeting of the board, let's take it, we'll take it that day. Then there's the vote, and we're going home. That's not how it works, because these aren't new standards and standards. What is even more interesting is that the parties who talk most about human rights today are against the referendum. The same political parties in Parliament who are for direct democracy. We are for direct democracy, the democratisation of everything, the university, everything alive. No, but we're against the referendum. I'm really confused. On this occasion, I would like to say the occasion. I've been notified from the signature collection. It happened yesterday on Ptuj. In fact, the official pear of the state administration, I don't know who, it was that even though the computers went down, everyone would sign them, but they didn't. On Ptuj for an hour no one could sign, including those who wanted to sign when the computers weren't working, and they said come back later. This is also possible – I cannot get rid of this bitter taste because there are no coincidences in politics, and this is probably not a coincidence either. Previously, the Social Democrats have said that this injustice must be corrected or taken into account the Constitutional Court's judgment to amend the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community. Who was on the government from 2008 to 2011 and twice rejected the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal to correct this? Who?Oh, my God! Don't paint us, please. Although this law actually solves something or has some solutions, no one knows what they will really be like because there was no discussion. I myself believe that it is an exclusive and only one purpose of this law – once again an ideological struggle. Let's have some more, shall we? People don't have to eat anymore, but we're going to a cultural fight because it's the best. That's where everyone's at. Today I would much rather talk about how we will protect the family, how we will give young people conditions, how they can become more independent, how they will be more motivated to settle down in Slovenia, without evicting themselves to choose a family, for more than one child. That would be a real topic. Because this also depends on the future of Slovenia as a country. Our demographic image is very bad. This decade alone, the number of young people in Slovenia will fall by 20%. By 2050, the number of older people per person will almost triple. How will this affect public finances, pensions, health bills? How? Probably by moving out, or they'll all move out because they won't last. We need measures here, but the government needs nothing. To date, I have not received one anti-crisis measure or a measure that would go hand in hand with an economy that would open up new jobs that would enable young people to have a perspective in this country. Nothing at all. We talk about new fees, bureaucratic obstacles and so on – how to pick up even more from those who have fewer. Not to mention the steady development of Slovenia. I have one comment on all members of the coalition when they speak about human rights. You've violated them in this term at least once, so don't sell these passwords, please. In my opinion, this law is also a major change. I'm not going to say intervention, I'm going to say change in society, and certainly the proposer should be looking for some consensus to try to find common points. I mentioned that in our party in 2009 we have proposed twice the amendment of this law, which is also imposed by the Constitutional Court. They will not have the best impact on society these events, which are being discussed today. I don't think people will have any of this. To the conclusion. I will support you to allow a referendum on this subject. It's kind of the highest form of participation of people. I have just read online that even more people than the elections will be present after the latest polls of the referendum, and I think this would be an indicator. To conclude, I have no doubts or prejudices against any group of people. Let this be settled as stated by the Constitutional Court. Whether the same-sex partners go to register or report, I have no problem with that. Even to settle the area of insurance and so on. However, I am absolutely against degradation the importance of the family and the importance of motherhood and paternity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I will start my debate with a replica of the last debater, namely Mr. Chuš from SDS, who was whipping here the entire National Assembly, and I think it was particularly flying to the United Left, but what we are going to do is open up some terrible ideological themes, while people have nothing to eat. Okay, this could be a perfectly legitimate political position, but it's terribly, terribly hypocritical. In particular, last Friday, on the initiative of the SDS, a committee meeting was held to discuss our relationship to past history at the end of the 70th anniversary of World War II. So the obvious is how good, beautiful, holy there on the right, but with some terrible honesty they would like to improve the position of people, while all of us remain here ugly, evil, who would like to go to cultural battle, ordinary manipulation, normal hypocrisy. As I have stated, last Friday, a half-lived history was discussed on the anniversary of the end of World War II on the basis of precisely these people, who are now opening up ideological stories to everyone else. So much for a replica introductory. Why did we table amendments to the marriage law in the United Left? These changes don't take anything from anyone, they don't take anything from anyone. No one's gonna get any worse because of these changes. But these changes in legislation are some kind of equality, the time of which has already come. Our ambition in the United Left with the proposal of these changes was to eliminate the unconstitutional situation in order to eliminate discrimination against certain groups of our fellow citizens, our fellow citizens. That most of us cannot decide on the human rights of the minority, we have been able to hear, more than once, rightly. This is or should at least be the red thread of today’s meeting of the National Assembly. What we may not have heard is who opposes it in terms of who here is citing the people’s availability. There is a lot of talk about the right to a referendum, about the right to the will of the people to decide on these things in a direct democratic way through the referendum and so on. But who exactly is the one who advocates it? Let's just remember a few things and let's take a closer look at it. The SDS and the NSI, of course, I'm talking about these -- these are the people, or those groups, who recently confronted the people and the people's expressed will on the street with the left fascism. These are the groups of people, the political options that the legitimate will of the people on the streets – not on human rights – is to be careful, but on the political issues that citizens and citizens have every right to decide and co-decision – they sent the police and Maribor a little later, and later on Ljubljana, with the tear gas. During the time of the government this political option has happened. And he was in charge of the whole project, there smiling from the back of the line, the first pint of Vinko. These are the great advocates of the interests of the people and the will of the people today. Come in. Those who today oppose the abolition of the unconstitutionality proposed in the United Left object to the cessation of discrimination in order to put an end to the violation of human rights of a group of citizens, these two groups, as far as I know, have supported those amendments to the 2013 Constitution which entered the fourth indent of Article 90, so that the referendum is not allowed to be negotiated on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. This change of constitution has been supported, but today it is being countered. They're going against it today. Come in. We can still stay under Article 90 of the Constitution. The introduction of the fact that it is not possible to sign a referendum on laws that abolish the anti-constitution in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms was certainly a positive acquisition of our Constitution. However, this 90th Article also includes some significantly more problematic indents, such as that the referendum is not allowed to be negotiated on the laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes and on the law adopted for the implementation of the State budget. On the basis of this indent, the will of the people was denied the opportunity to comment on the Slovenian State holding company, to express privatisation, to decide on the largest robbery of this territory that has ever taken place. Turkey's decline and all the destruction that followed them was a small meal compared to what privatisation means, but when the issue of the Slovenian State Holding and Privatisation referendum arose, this 90th Article of the Constitution was absolutely ok. But he was pretty good back then. We're not going to the referendum. We can't go to the referendum. No, God forbid. In short, these are yours and our self-proclaimed advocates of the will of the people and advocates of the interests of the people – hypocrisy squared. This reference to some supposed will of the people is completely, totally opportunistic. Neither the SDS nor the NSI are interested in any of this will of the people, but they are only interested in how to deny human rights to a group of people who somehow do not fit into their ideal, political, ideological, if you want to, image. All the lies, manipulations, deceptions that occur in this public debate with our amendments to the law on marriage are quite eloquent here that it is only a matter of getting it through, that we want it to be our way, that everything else is of no interest to us, but the will of the people is by chance such an appropriate instrument to which we will refer. In short, if this case is a Roma case before the Constitutional Court, and because of all these lies, manipulations and this may happen, I have no idea how the Constitutional Court can decide on this in any way but to protect the human rights of minorities. In accordance with the Constitution, by the fourth indent of Article 90 of the Constitution, it was not until in the last two decisions that it was concluded that, both in the case of same-sex partners and diversified partners, the essential feature of the stable relationship between the two persons close to each other is to help each other and support each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u142	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u143	And then again, I quote, "this is the same factual situation in which two people are connected in pairs, with their relatively permanent relationship being essentially defined by their emotional, moral, spiritual and sexual connection on the common path of life." In short, it is a comparable situation, a similar situation of a diversified and same-sex community. All we do with our proposal in the United Left is to draw some equation, again fully in accordance with the Constitution, completely in line with some way of equality, equality and so on. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u144	I'll say one more thing before the replica. The expression Vinko’s first pendulum was offensive, so I warn you or give you a warning because of this expression.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u145	I'm taking it back.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u146	I hope that we will not continue to use such expressions at this personal level. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, the thing is, I'm gonna let everyone tell the story to the end, and then I'm gonna make a decision. You've already noticed that. And in this respect, I'm the same as one and the other. Anybody want a replica? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much, President. I'll be very brief. The police did not beat the people, they did not attack the people and did not act against the people, but in Ljubljana against 200 and some bullies; in Maribor there was something similar. If you were one of the bullies, it's a good thing you got something.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u148	Before I put the matter forward – because there were two procedural on this side and one procedural on this side, I think we will now begin to bet on this. And that was the abuse of the replica, so to speak. You answered him. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] The replica is not meant to be answered. That he misquoted you that he did not understand you – this started the replica. [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not that. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, wait! When I give someone my word, he'll talk. Not before. It was procedural here, Mr. Hear, if I've seen it properly before. [[advertising from the hall]] Was it a replica? [[adverts from benches]] Challenged? Mr. Chush has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u149	My colleague Kordish said some things after my discussion, and I think it's best that I make this public. The Commission's petition meeting was not called upon by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. So you've been deceiving. The meeting was convened – I think that this was also the case in the Commission’s plan of action – in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, otherwise perhaps the meeting could not have been held, since the President of the National Assembly would probably have rejected it, so I ask you to ask yourself, for a second time, before you speak to him, at least to ask what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u150	Let me make a few comments; the President of the National Assembly does not have the authority to refuse any meeting of the Committee. Pre-procedural, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. In my procedural proposal, I request and ask my colleague, Miha Kordiš, to apologize to New Slovenia for never and never having measured the people with the left fascists. That's why I'm asking for an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u152	Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. I don't know exactly what, but something procedural is obvious.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. My friend Joseph Horvath is certainly right. I've given it a lot of thought in my formulation. Marks with left fascism certainly never came, at least not according to my knowledge, by New Slovenia, but this happened by Janez Janša when his second government, whose part was you, was in power, and you probably understand where this connection came from on my part. However, given what you said, I certainly apologize for giving you this sign directly up, but it's not, it's only circumstantial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u154	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think that in some cases you allow extreme debates, debates that have absolutely nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the content of the decision, and also deviate from what you have intended to adopt, from the ethical code of Members. Nor what has been said now in the apology of Nova Slovenije and concerning SDS is true, and I would also expect an apology for the police acting alone. As she searched the premises of the President of the Government, as she searched the premises of the House of State of the former Prime Minister, she also protected the public facilities and personnel that were in them. Probably not according to political instructions, but as said by the current Minister, Mrs Györkös. One more thing. Mr President, I think that you who are holding this meeting are also obliged to warn the debaters who are talking nonsense and inaccuracies. The referendums on the Slovenian State Holding and on the Bad Bank have not been rejected by the Constitutional Court on the basis of the existing, current regulation in the Constitution, since these two decisions were adopted by the Constitutional Court in December 2012, and the new constitutional regime has been in force since 31 May 2013, which is said to have been adopted six months later. You are in charge of the session, you have an assistant, and it would be right to point such statements, which are puzzled with logic, with rules, with procedures, with dates and so on, and to point this out to the debater. Because these are false allegations. If any of the Members are so ill prepared for the meeting, that they may bow to the left and to the right, and speak inaccuracies, it does not matter who they are, you must warn him. The constitutional amendment shall not be adopted at any time and shall apply from 31 May 2013. The constitutional decisions relating to the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Bad Bank Act are from December 2012. I suggest, Mr President, that you also take care of such nonsense as some of the new faces that do not have time to pick up a few miles and check what documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u156	You've already told us everything. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u157	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I think it's been a good eight months since we were elected to this state council. At that time, most Slovenes spoke, given that so many new faces were elected to the National Assembly, there would be a new policy, a policy that would be for the benefit of Slovenia. During these eight months we voted in the National Assembly for many laws that were inquality, poorly prepared and not for the good of Slovenia. And that is because the Government and all those who prepare these laws are firmly aware that they have a large majority in this national assembly and that everything will go through this national assembly, and that is what is happening. When we were elected to the elections, we probably didn't think about the referendum. It is not long before the meeting was held in this National Assembly on the topic of same-sex. We are discussing in the National Assembly and in front of the National Assembly over 2,000 children, parents, old parents, young people, and, above all, those who care about Slovenia and the Slovenian future. During this time, we have heard many times that the church is interfering with these things that we are discussing today. In particular, let me remind you of those who are sitting today in this national assembly, which was probably still playing in the sandstone in 1990, maybe some bees were squeezing in their ears or noses when comrades from the former Yugoslavia attacked Slovenia. At that time, the entire Slovenian public expected what the late Archbishop Aloyz Šuštar would do. All of them expected him to appeal to the bishop of Rome, to invite all of Europe with his authority to stop the aggression against Slovenia by his comrades from the former Yugoslavia. When the archbishop was pleased to do so, no one in Slovenia had any doubts that he was involved in politics. He also called for the same action in Europe at the bishop's conference. And when the first elections were in 1990, everyone was expecting the opinion of the late Archbishop Aloys Schuster. He wrote: "The elections that are before us are the most important political moment of our post-war history. Elections are a test of our courage, our civic and national consciousness. It is right that we trust power to those who are not about personal empowerment or career, but about justice, freedom and universal prosperity in Slovenia." Even then, after this statement, no one in Slovenia said that the Roman Catholic Church was involved in politics in Slovenia. For almost a year and a half, the entire Slovenian public has been pressured, I repeat, by the already late Archbishop to persuade the pope to recognise Slovenia as a single state. This happened on 13 January 1992, and the whole of Slovenia applauded. I see nothing bad, even very responsible, that even priests who are concerned about the Slovenian future can advertise, and I think this is also their mission. I myself will vote against today's decision because it is difficult for me to imagine that we could talk about the past without children, parents, old parents and young people. It is very difficult for me to imagine the present without children, without parents, old parents, and young people. I will vote against today's decision because it is about the future of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u158	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get ready for Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin with the words of Barbara Rygelj in an article in Youth: "People live here and now. Legal certainty and legal predictability are needed today." With the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the rights of same-sex and diversified couples have been completely aligned, which is the indisputable enforcement of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I must point out here that this unconstitutionality should be eliminated for the first time in 2010 and for the second time in 2013. Yesterday, and at almost all the meetings of the National Assembly and also at the home work bodies, we say that we must respect the decisions of the courts. This applies both to individuals and to us, and to the authorities. There's no doubt about that. I believe that individuals with this law have problems, but I warn you, we live in the 21st century. Times change, we change, we let people live as they want. Let's stop encouraging discrimination and intolerance. Subjects to the adopted law three years ago, under the family code, stressed that it was an attack on the family, a devalue of the natural biological orientation of the family into a new life, despite the fact that the code did not extend the existing possibilities of unilateral adoption in same-sex families. Personally, I think it is extremely unacceptable that the finding of unconstitutionality has not yet been removed. It is also extremely unacceptable that the motions for a referendum initiative should not be taken into account by the constitution laid down in Article 14: In Slovenia everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal situation. Once again, by adopting the amendment of the law, we fulfil the obligation imposed by a constitutional decision which equates the same-sex partner community with the diverse community in all rights and obligations. This law will guarantee the right to health care by partner, the right to absence from work due to illness, the right to care and so on. Because of the discriminatory treatment of minorities, I accept a concept of difference that does not allow, but also strengthens positive differences in human character, both in the cultural, national, sports and other fields. That's why I support the law. At the same time, I understand tolerance as acceptance and respect for human uniqueness, while at the same time as the primary principle on which solidarity and partnership are based. Tolerance is primarily the responsibility of those with greater social and political power. Last but not least, let's not forget, we live in the 21st century. Let me finish with the thought of the day. Only one path leads to happiness, and that is to stop worrying about things beyond the power of our will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u160	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare the mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Because I am obviously among the more ignorant and stupid in this House and because there is little time in today's Work on page 14, Science, they write: "In Europe we have learned to coexist with the great beasts; a large European study shows that people and great beasts can share a common space." [[...]] I hope that we will learn to coexist, coming from the differences between us, also to coexist in same-sex, broad-sex, cispoly, and from the fact that we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy, where human rights are beyond the will of the people, the dot, the dot, the call. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u162	The word has magic. Jana Jenko, prepare the mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, many reasons for the referendum and the reasons against the referendum have already been mentioned. The fact is that, already in 2006 and again in 2010, the Constitutional Court found a conflict of law with the Constitution, namely the two laws already mentioned here several times. Both laws discriminate against persons of the same sex. Yesterday, there was also an obvious on the Labour Committee that we have a number of constitutional decisions in which constitutional judges impose on us the abolition of non-compliance in laws with the Constitution. When we want to break this marriage, you throw pollen under our feet. I don't know what you want at all – respect for human rights and the abolition of the anti-constitution, or that these two continue as they have been. True, many times these decisions are brought into court with delay — even this time. Even when the marriage was brought into line with the marriage, there was much talk. At that time, the outside community was also a minority, just as today the same-sex minority. And it worked. Today, out-of-partner communities are aligned with married partners. I think we are all happy because today there are more out-of-partner communities than marriages. Some of you wonder what your father's role is in a lesbian relationship. I think we have in many families or also in diverse families or communities of matriarchate and patriarchy. Sometimes men admit that a woman wears pants, sometimes really wears them to men. And it is also regulated in lesbian or gay communities. Someone's a man, takes a man's role, someone's a woman. Here you're afraid of adoptions by the same-sex people. Justice, you say – this is not about justice, but it is about the possibility of enabling them to do so, nothing else. It's really a matter of fucking opinions and deception. After the referendum, I would not like to receive it again on the table – those who sent it know very well – as I received after the archive referendum, to pay for the referendum. The referendum costs a lot. And if this referendum fails here, human rights will be violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u164	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the government for a clear explanation. In fact, the government has prepared this opinion that I have before me. It was very late after the National Assembly. In this paper, I have now taken a quick look twice, it only says that it relates to that part of the rules relating to the rejection of the referendum on the law and that the referendum is not allowed to be declared. However, nowhere does the Government say that the Government supports the proposal to stop collecting signatures. Actually, that's two stages. You know that. The period of signature collection is that 35-day period you set and the government's opinion relates exclusively to the invitation to a referendum. However, the conditions for the invitation to tender shall only take place when the conditions are met, that is to say that at least 40,000 signatures have been collected within the prescribed time limit and that these signatures have been submitted at least 7 days after the signatures collected. I would like to comment to the Government because the first part to support the suspension of the invitation to tender for signatures does not follow at any point in this opinion, but this opinion is written on eight pages. The rest of the coalition is talking about something else. The Government did not define in the text until signature collection was suspended, although what is being adopted today relates exclusively to this. I would like the opinion of the competent person, the person with the power to represent the Government at this point, who may answer whether your opinion concerns only the adoption or rejection of a decision on the invitation to tender or the procedure for the suspension of the signatures. Thank you very much. And I want that right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u166	We'll let the government get ready because it's supposed to have a word. He can pick up anytime. It would not be right for it to be right away because it needs to get to know exactly the question itself. Unless the government wants to answer that right away? [[He does.]] Then Mrs Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The Government was invited and also adopted an opinion on the material sent by a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which was also discussed on the parent committee, i.e. at the working body of the National Assembly. The Government adopted an opinion on this material.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u168	Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u169	Your Honor! I'm appalled at that answer. In the first section of paragraphs 4 and 5, the Government wrote that the Constitutional Court shall decide in a dispute between the candidate of the referendum and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia which rejects the call for a referendum and in paragraph 5, something similar when the referendum is not allowed to be opened. The question is very clear. The Government has not identified the material in the procedure in the National Assembly relating to the suspension of signatures. She only decided on the adoption of the decree of the National Assembly. We will not adopt this decision until the signatures are entered into the procedure. And I ask very clearly whether the Government has defined itself exclusively to the decision, as is evident from this opinion – and this condition is not fulfilled because the signatures have not yet been filed and the President of the National Assembly has not yet ordered his services to prepare the decree – whether it also relates to what is the intention today and also to the intention of all this procedure, which relates to this decision, which concerns the suspension of the collection of signatures within the 35-day period. In fact, you have not identified yourself anywhere in this opinion until this interruption. But this is all we're talking about. I'm asking about the government's position. Does the Government support the process of suspending signature collection or not? Because that's not what you wrote in that opinion. You haven't defined yourself anywhere. If you have not identified yourself, Madam Secretary of State – whether the Government does not want to define itself because it knows that what you are doing, what the coalition is doing, is illegal or does not understand what is going on in this national assembly or what else is going on. But I think that the Government's legislative and legal service knows that what the National Assembly does is not constitutional, does not comply with the Constitution, constitutional regulations and other sections of the constitutional law. That is why this opinion is as it is written here. However, I want a clear answer, ma'am, whether the Government supports or does not support the suspension of signature gathering.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u170	You can talk to me procedurally, not to anyone else in the hall. [[advertising from the hall]] I know you understand all this, but you're also abusing these things. What the Secretary of State had previously said meant that the Government had identified itself until that material which had been submitted on Monday. And that was the material that the Government could define itself to. Otherwise, even if there were no government definition in this process, all the conditions for us to conclude would still be met. I kind of understand what was said, but I'm going to ask the government or her representative if she wants to supplement something. He wants to make it up to you. Okay. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has the floor, Mrs Martina Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You got me right. That is exactly what I wanted to say, as I said, and I think it was also very clear. You can ask the government what you want, but you can't ask me to answer what you want to hear. The opinion of the Government was adopted. This opinion was also presented in the introduction. If necessary, I will also take a call, and I will take the floor in the debate, which is the role of the Government here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u172	Procedurally, I suppose, because there's nothing else I can give you, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I understand you correctly, this opinion of the Government, which we have today on the table for the National Assembly meeting, was prepared for the committee meeting that was held yesterday. That's what you said. The Secretary of State was on the committee yesterday and she did not have this opinion. She said something there, too, if I was watching right. So she was saying something that the government didn't accept. Mr President, I ask once again, given that you have sold us this outdated opinion, which has nothing to do with the material that we are considering today at the meeting, and I propose that you provide the government's response, whether the Government supports the rejection of the referendum, that is to say that the decision on which the vote in the National Assembly will take place once X month, or whether the Government supports the suspension of the signatures, what is the subject of this decision. Because if the Government has adopted an opinion at a point in the agenda with which it has nothing to do with it, then something is seriously wrong with this government. Something really wrong. We are talking today and all of you are talking about stopping collecting signatures, so hurry up and you didn't want to give an extra deadline to prepare quality amendments – just to stop collecting signatures – and the government is talking about rejecting the referendum invitation. That'll be a month and a half, two months, three months, depending. The government doesn't speak and it hasn't prepared an opinion on this. And I demand, Mr President, that you get the government's opinion on what happened yesterday on the committee and what is happening today at the meeting. Yesterday at the committee and today at the meeting, we spoke more or less exclusively about the suspension of the collection of signatures within the time limit you granted to civil society. And I expect you to ensure that the government gives a credible answer. She has half an hour to discuss, she has announced time and has no answers. That's scary, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u174	That's the thing. I asked the Government to give an opinion on the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, and I requested it to do so 23. 3. 2015, after this proposal has actually been put into the procedure, nothing sooner or later. This decision, which we are still discussing today – of course it has been modified on the committee itself – has been given by the Government its opinion, which it adopted at the letter meeting, as it says, 26. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I've even set a 55-minute break so you can read it accurately, and I think you've met him. It contains relevant parts that define certain aspects of this, but we could also conduct this meeting without the Government's opinion. There have been many instances where the government’s views on such matters have simply not been. I can't force anyone in this room to debate or anything like that, and I'm not going to force him. The government still has the time announced. After all, it is announced at the end in front of the proposaler himself, it is always the turn of the debate, or the discussion of the government representatives, so that I see no other need, and I think we can move on. If it's the same again, I'll say the same thing again. Mr. Jože Tanko, you want to go back procedurally, but this time let it really be just about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday we filed a request to withdraw the item from the agenda and you characterized it not by some way of making it meaningless with your explanation. This government opinion does not refer to the content on the agenda today. This opinion should come to the agenda of the Committee, as you said. I'm concerned that you didn't write to the government that this opinion is irrelevant. For the first section of this motion for a decision, which has been adopted, states: As of the date of adoption of this Decision, the assembly of the signatures of the electorate to support the request for a referendum shall be suspended. This is contained in the supplementary proposal for a decision. And I am specifically asking you to ask the government what the government is like on this amended proposal for a decision. I don't care what was meant for the committee. That's pasté, that's irrelevant, Mr. President. If you care so much about our proposals in the opposition, you should also be careful about what the government is sending to the legislative process. This opinion was of relevance to the Government yesterday for the meeting of the Committee. This opinion of the Government is not relevant today for the meeting of the National Assembly because it is irrelevant. I therefore ask you once again, Mr President, whether I ask you to provide the Government's position on this sentence in the first section. We are talking today exclusively about the prohibition of collecting signatures. The government keeps on talking and referring to the ban or rejection of the referendum — purely another matter. I propose, Mr President, for the first time, that you are equal to all those who send materials into the legislative process, and for the second time, I propose that you ensure the Government's position until the signatures are stopped before the decision is taken. I'd like the government's written position.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u176	The Government's position on such matters can always be the same in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that the Government can give its opinion, but I stress that it can and does not have to be given. This opinion was provided as always, so it was provided for in that first act. Of course, then the Government can define other issues in the debate itself. However, I cannot ask the Government to define itself, but this is its right. Given that this moment the government is not announced by word, I give the word mags. Lilliani Kozlovich. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u177	Thank you, President, for your word. Let me show you at the turn of history where we are today with this debate. Darwin discovered the natural law of evolution and found that living things are developing. As man evolved in this evolution and rose to his last legs, he lost two legs and had only two left. In this evolution, it is logical and normal for relations, relationships, and values to change. With each such change that has taken place in evolution, we have stepped one up into the vertical spiral of development, and these leaps have been very large in society — leaps when we have granted individuals or groups rights that have not been recognized. One such leap, for example, was that of slaves who were not totally unjust in relation to their master. Later, the company made a re-jump when it granted rights to black persons in relation to whites. Later she recognized women's rights in relation to men. Also, religion — perhaps at first only one — is very much recognized today, and every time a society makes one fundamental leap. And where are we today? Today we are again trying to make one leap at this spiral turn and climb into a higher civilization, and we are dealing with same-sex partners, persons with such circumstances. We can't put our eyes out here, deny that this fact already exists between people. It is not a question of whether we like it or not, but of whether we will admit it or not to admit it, on the principle that we are living alone and letting others live. Once we are able to get to know and cross this curve on this spiral and climb higher, we will once again realize that we will never be the same. We will never fully unify ourselves, not biologically, not mentally, not otherwise. However, the fact that we are not equal must not be the reason that we are not equal before marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u178	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, you said earlier that the Government could give its opinion. This is also in line with the rules of procedure. The government has given this ancient opinion, which does not refer to this agenda item today, with ease, and you have uncritically distributed it. You haven't even checked whether it fits the agenda for this meeting or whether it was useful for that board meeting that was yesterday. You have allowed us to have the opinion of the Government, because you have divided it into the documentation system of the National Assembly, and it refers not to this point that we are considering today, but to that which was dealt with yesterday on the working body. That's one thing. I would warn you that you are consistent in your actions, not only to us from the opposition, from the SDS, but that you are consistent primarily with those who enter certain things that are unconstitutional, inconsistent with procedures and so on. Secondly, I ask you, Mr President, to ensure that, at each agenda item, there will be a government representative who can respond. I asked very carefully whether the Secretary of State would say whether this position relates only to the rejection of the referendum invitation or to what the proposal is to decide – to stop the collection of signatures today. Indeed, this opinion is not clear. A representative of the government can't explain it. She took half an hour to discuss, and she can't explain a simple matter which is discreet, which is seen practically from the plane. We're talking about two different things, and the lady can't explain. I propose, Mr President, that you suspend the session, either the Minister or the President of the Government, and explain this matter. That's insufferable! The government takes half an hour, waits for five hours to pass and then goes back, and the job is done. We expect government representatives to explain this to us, which we ask them – if they have announced time and assured the team. Ask the government to bring the competent people here. Yesterday and today we didn't see any ministers at any point in the agenda, at no one. The lower officials are coming, so it's no wonder they can't comment on the government's opinions, and they don't hope. So I propose, Mr President, for the first time to withdraw this opinion from the Government because it is inappropriate, and for the second time to provide an answer to the question that I have raised, this is the right position of the Government to suspend the collection of signatures within the open time limit that you have set.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u180	First, let's make a deal. Procedural requirements can be set in different ways. One way is that which you have now chosen, and this is an offensive way of making procedural demands. That's why I'm warning you about the insulting way of speaking to me and the insulting way of speaking to the representative of the government. That way, in this room, while I'm here, you won't discuss it. This is the first thing I have to say. The second point is that I did not bring this matter into the system because there is an automaticity in which such opinions are simply accepted by the National Assembly. But the fact is, what I explained to you earlier is that such an opinion that comes, but can not come and is not a procedural condition, can be completed. Again: it does not need to be completed. So I reject your motion. But I will certainly give my word to the government's representative when she wants to speak. That this representative of the government is certainly competent to discuss this, we saw, if I remember anything, at session 3. 3. When the basic law was adopted. So I'd like to ask you to be respectful to each other. Individual branches of government must also be respectful of one another. How should the executive branch of authority respect us if we offend it? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I guess I wasn't misunderstood. Today we are considering a decision rejecting the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. We're not talking about the law today. We're talking about a rejection decision. The government has sent an opinion to this effect, which does not belong to the meeting of the National Assembly. You suspended the session to read this opinion, Mr President. Opinion which is not an integral part of the agenda item at the meeting of the National Assembly. This opinion was an integral part of the point of examination on the Committee but came one day too late. That's what we're talking about now. And I asked a very direct question, a very direct question: Does the government support the suspension of signature collection or not? Because this opinion refers to something else, the rejection of a referendum invitation which cannot be reached until we have a ruling in the National Assembly. And, Mr. President, I wasn't being offensive. The Government's representative did not respond, and that's all I've warned about. I also suggested that another representative of the Government should be able to respond, whether it be the Minister or the President of the Government. I didn't ask for anything else! I wasn't being insulting. He would be hurtful if he got a good answer, a concrete answer, and he would, I don't know, do something else, but there's no answer, and you know it. I also propose that, Mr President, we get to the National Assembly relevant representatives of the Government who will be able to answer such simple questions as: Does the Government support the suspension of the signatures for the referendum invitation or does not support it? I didn't ask anything else, because the opinion refers to something else entirely.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u182	The Government is itself competent to designate its representatives, and the legislative branch of the government cannot interfere. On the other hand, I now give the floor to Mrs Martini Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll go again from the beginning. On the basis of Article 169c and Article 116(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has received the opinion of the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Relations by the President of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking nicely because I'm answering the question! On amendments and additions to the Marriage and Family Relations Act. On the basis of this request for an opinion, the Government adopted its opinion and forwarded it to the National Assembly. As has already been said, the Government itself shall designate its representatives and representatives to represent it at the meeting of the National Assembly. This goes hand in hand with the procedures set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you, as good acquaintances of the Rules of Procedure, know very well that lower officials and government officials cannot represent the Government at meetings of the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask you not to offend officials and officials who are completely separated from officials and officials, and it is very inappropriate to involve them in this debate. Secondly, the Government announces the time for discussion at the meeting of the National Assembly and decides for itself, its representatives and representatives, when they will announce what they will be talking about on the agenda and how long they will do so. In full accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I also act as a representative of the Government at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u184	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. If it's the same again, I'll have to warn you again, another time. But all right, Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. See, with regard to regulations and business rules — there is probably few in the government who can teach us how to ask or ask what things. The government took the time, sent an opinion, not for today's meeting of the National Assembly, but for yesterday's meeting of the Committee. I asked, Madam Secretary of State, just one question: Does the Government support the suspension of the voter signatures to support the request for a referendum or not? This is the only question I have addressed to the Government, Mr President. If the government won't answer, let them say they won't answer. If the government can't answer, let them say they can't answer us. If the representative of the Government is unable to respond, I have proposed that you call on the Minister who is in charge to answer, or the President of the Government who represents the Government at all points of the agenda to answer this simple question. I'm not asking any difficult questions. No hard stuff. Just that, President, you ensure that one of the government responds, or does the Government support the suspension of signing within the open deadline you have ordered, or is it not? That's the question. It is perfectly normal for us in our parliamentary group to want the Government to be defined at this point. We do not have here the Government and the announcement of the government's time to actively sit down the meeting of the National Assembly or the agenda item, but to participate in the agenda item and when they are asked or when they think it is necessary, they also answered questions. I repeat: Does the Government support the suspension of the signatures for the referendum or does it not support them? This is the only question and I would like to ask for an answer because, from this outdated opinion and not from an opinion that it is not, it is not clear what the position of the Government is at such an important point in the agenda when it comes to, say, human rights. It's very simple, President. Any smiles and cynical laughs are probably not appropriate. We want an answer, so that the Slovenians who collect signatures will also know the position of their government on what they are doing on the stand and what they are trying to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u186	Before I give anyone another word, I have to answer this procedurally, because only I can answer the procedural question. First, I'd like to warn you what it's like to deal with these procedural issues. I must certainly give my word to the person who wishes to speak about the use of the Rules of Procedure. Your speech may take three minutes and the use of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the President-in-Office. This is where the procedure ends. And this one has been completed several times, at least as far as this issue is concerned. But I'll do it again. The government replied or gave an opinion on the act that was tabled this Monday. This act was amended at a meeting of the mother's working body, nothing else. So, he was an amendment, he wasn't withdrawn, he wasn't changed – but the title changed, the first part changed, the second part changed, but with the amendments, and there was nothing else. The basic and basic question raised as to whether such an act could be adopted by the National Assembly is answered in this reply. And that was one of those key issues that has always been raised in this process. This opinion, which came to the National Assembly today, is not obsolete, but it is possible to complement the answer to that question. This will most likely be, but I cannot know in advance, the representative of the Government, until the end of the meeting, has done so. This also answers your procedural question. I'm not gonna ask for anything else. I'm gonna go through what I can do as chairman. However, the fact that if you are not satisfied with my reply is, as always, the answer to the Commission for Rules of Procedure. Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In this context and in this procedural proposal, I ask again and ask the Government, which, today, at approximately 8.40 p.m., sent us an opinion on the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which I asked about three, four hours ago, the then President-in-Office, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, when the 40th letter meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was convened, and how long did the ministers have to decide on this issue, i.e. on this opinion. I think this question is correct. I always respect the executive branch of power. Finally, however, colleagues and colleagues, the National Assembly is the supervisory body over the work of the Government, and I think we can ask and ask the Government to tell us when the meeting was convened and how long, since it was a written meeting, the ministers had to decide on this issue. The question raised by colleague Tanko is relevant. In fact, right this minute, this second, information has spread that we've collected over 40,000 signatures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u188	Again, you have asked a question directly to the Government. The government's representative will answer when she comes to the floor again. I'm not gonna give her a word right now, but let's move on. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u189	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. When I listened to individual discussions between colleagues and colleagues, I first began to wonder whether we have a Law on registration of the same-sex partnership in Slovenia. Individual debates have worked as if we don't have it, and today the problem is that someone is hampering the life decisions of the same sexes. That's not true. We have this law. Of course, today's point is not the subject of this law, and by the way, we have said several times that we have also proposed that things that are not the best in it should be arranged. I also cannot understand today's debates by SMC colleagues and colleagues. Your opinions, excuse me, are changing faster than the wind. Now I'm going to tell you why. This is the opinion of the SMC Group a few days ago, and we can also count the hours: "The SMC Group of Members decided at today's meeting that it will not restrict the democratic levers our society has and will not interfere with the collection of signatures for the referendum. The will of the people is stronger than the parliamentary majority. The referendum is the only institute that applies more than the parliamentary majority. The people have the opportunity to make a decision in their own hands, unless they agree with our decisions," explains the head of the parliamentary group, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer. That's your opinion, Your Honor! Today, a few hours later, you turned him over. What for? What for? To go to the conclusion now. I believe that the decision you are proposing today, which you intend to make, is inadmissible. In fact, the existing law, which was in force until these amendments to the law, which, by the way, had been enforced by a reduced procedure, had not been contrary in any article and had not violated human rights. Because if that were the case, then this marriage wouldn't be! So today you're saying something that's not even true! What you have accepted by means of a rapid procedure, and what we believe to be wrong, is not a violation of human rights. And the law you are referring to is not a violation of human rights, because otherwise it would not be. The difference between the many other laws you have legislated after a reduced procedure is that these changes are in such a sensitive area that the Slovenian public is finally sharing. The proof that it is so sensitive is that 40 thousand signatures were collected yesterday. So much for that. There is no compromise in it, despite the fact that citizens have rejected a similar law at the referendum. With such sensitive materials, however, you have not literally ruled out the public. This way of interfering with legislation, which is not only of a legal and technical nature, but which concerns society on its basis and consequently opens up serious dilemmas, is extremely irresponsible. Today, there is no more power of argument from your mouth. You replaced the arguments with a power argument based on the power of your formal and informal coalition. There's no professional argument, actually. There are no professional arguments. But there was a vague reference to human rights. But once again, the law that has been in force so far has not been unconstitutional. And you know, less than any position is argued, worse is the law, and not least, it will change sooner. In doing so, it must again be pointed out that it is we who today have shown a great deal of understanding of the problems of the same-sex. Finally, under the auspices of the Slovenian Democratic Party, our governments adopted the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership. Before that, the left governments had 10 years to sort it out, and they didn't do anything. In every society there are equality and diversity, and the fact is that the same-sex community is different from a diverse community, because the same-sex community cannot start a new life from its relationship. This simply requires a third person who has to be a different sex than the same sex. What biologically cannot be achieved on the basis of the free decision of two same-sex persons cannot be reclassified as a right to children. It just doesn't work. The child is not a human right, he is a gift, and their rights must be protected the most. Since there has been a lot of talk today – the European Court of Human Rights is in recent verdicts, the latest in 2014, it has found that a same-sex wedding cannot be considered human rights. Nor did it find that the prohibition of same-sex marriage would constitute discrimination. Once again, these are the findings of the European Court of Human Rights. Today, there was a lot of talk about why we did not talk about domestic violence and so on. I think colleague Alenka Bratusek pointed out that we're not talking about violence. She's not in the hall right now. Well, even then it was not in the Chamber when we suggested in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we talk about domestic violence, but you rejected this proposal for the most part. So please don't put what you do in others' mouths. Last but not least, today there were also quite a few opinions, or the topic was focused on what injustices occur in so - called traditional families. It's true, they happen, too. But let me read a public letter myself, we can call it, those who lived in and grew up in same-sex communities. Indeed, we do not yet know this in the Slovenian space. He says, "The gay wedding not only redefines weddings, but also parenting. It recommends and normalizes the composition of a family that necessarily denies us something precious and fundamental, but at the same time it tells us that we do not really need what we urgently need in order for everything to be good with us. But it's not. We're wounded. If anyone can talk about bad things, it's us. Children of separated parents can say, "Hey, Mom and Dad, I love you guys, but my divorce broke me up and it's so bad. She shook my trust and made me feel guilty. It's so hard to live in two different houses." The adopted children may say, "Oh, my adoptive parents, I love you. In fact, I'm very sorry. I suffer because my relationship with my real parents has broken up. I'm confused, and I miss them anyway. I haven't met them." Children of same - sex parents do not have the same voice. It's not just me. There's so many of us. Many of us are too afraid to speak and tell you about our injuries and pain, for for whatever reason, it seems that you are not listening, that you do not want to hear. If we say we're wounded because we were raised by same-sex parents, you ignore us or mark us as hostile." That's the truth, too, Your Honor. Once again, I believe that what we accept today is unacceptable, even because of article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which is clear: Full-year men and women have the right to enter into a marriage and to establish a family without any restrictions on race, nationality or religion. And in the third indent it is said that the family is a natural and fundamental cell of society and has the right to social and state protection. That's the point, and I really don't know what human rights are being violated. In the marriage that existed so far, they weren't, they weren't. Let me just wrap this up. My colleagues from SD will probably know who I'm talking about given that they used his name in the position. "The law of one man and wife is not the same as the community of two persons of the same sex. Good distinction does not mean discrimination, but it is the opposite – it means respect."
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u190	The word Aha, first the replica. [[...]] I'm sorry, I already forgot because it was such a long debate. First the replica, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am a little disappointed by the misunderstanding of colleagues from the SDS, or colleague Anja Bah Žibert, by understanding article 90 of the Constitution, which is being selectively dropped today. I'm going to read it again, and that's this replica that I applied for, which is why we decided in the Modern Center Party as we did. In fact, Article 90 of the Constitution states that the National Assembly shall call for a referendum on the implementation of the law which it has adopted if at least 40,000 voters so require. Secondly, the referendum is not allowed to be described: on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters; on the laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes, and on the law to be adopted for the implementation of the State budget; on the laws on the ratification of international treaties and, I stress, on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionalities. This led us to a decision that we will make today. So please don't put words in our mouth.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u192	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u193	Thank you. Today, obviously, there is still a debate on the law, not the decision we have proposed. So I'm going to respond again to things that obviously need to be repeated over and over again. If we were talking in a philosophical jargon, we'd say we're in front of a conflict. We're talking about the same thing, but we can't possibly talk about the same thing. If I touch that adoption note first, about the rights of the children, about the old parents. A child is not a human right. I think we can all agree on that. Colleagues on the opposite coast keep saying this, the child is not a human right – of course. And as a result, adoption is not a human right. I think we need to be aware that adoption is another thing, and this is enshrined in Section 7 of the Marriage and Family Relations Act, and I will read it to you. Article 7 states that adoption as a special form of protection of minors creates the same relationship between the adoptive parent and the adoptive parent. Adoption is no one's right, adoption is an institution we have in this country to protect children. Your statements about giving the same-sex law or, yesterday, direct access to children and so on – we have been listening to this all the time during this campaign, during the family code campaign and so on – are simple deception and false statements. This is not found in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, and this is not even in the existing law on marriage and family relations. All we give to same-sex couples with this law is, indeed, the possibility that they can make an application, along with the other 580 applicants who want to adopt a child. I would also like to reiterate that the adoption process is looking for the most suitable parents for the child and not the most suitable child for foster parents. Therefore, the child is not a human right and adoption is also not a parent’s right. It is simply a child's right, which the state is trying to give him the best conditions for life. As far as old parents are concerned. We've heard about it again today. I would just say once again that no one, not even old parents, has the right to adopt. Old parents don't even have these rights in an existing law. When we opened the legislative procedure with the novel, we did not open the adoption articles relating to the old parents, and that was not even the purpose of our novel. The objective of the novel, which we have always stressed and we insist on doing so, is simply to equalize same-sex couples and diversified couples in all rights and duties. And when you say that the ZZDR is not unconstitutional – no one has ever said that the ZZDR is unconstitutional, and we have never eliminated the anti-constitution of the ZZDR. We did not even eliminate the anti-constitutions only in certain laws. We are eliminating the anti-constitution which is systemic in the Slovenian legal order, and I think this is a sufficient basis for us to adopt this decision today. We have before us a law whose adoption has only resulted in the extension and elimination of these unconstitutional rights. As for the undemocratic nature of the procedure, I do not understand why you are two years ago, and I think that almost unanimously in this national assembly — 86 to 1 — was passed by a constitutional law that changed Articles 90, 97, and 99. And this 90th article states that it is not permissible to present a referendum on a law that eliminates unconstitutionality with regard to human rights. And here, I took a look at the name list of the vote, you were all in favour, your respectable colleagues from the opposition. So you can't talk about us breaking the constitution by stopping the referendum. This is enshrined in the Constitution and this is the duty of the National Assembly. One argument is that you adopted the famous ZRIPS in 2005. ZRIPS is actually some form of positive discrimination, if that's what I should call it. You have done exactly what you have done, colleague Žibert, now that you have said in the end - you have accepted a compromise, a compromise on human rights, which says we share certain, limited human rights with same sex, not all. The whole time we listen to your debate is as follows: of course, no one is against the same-sex and their rights, but it always hangs over us. [[...]] I insist here that this, but with regard to human rights, it cannot be. Human rights are full or not. You called, and this is some mode of surgery also SDS, on some individual abstract cases, and then you generalize them on some rule. Comrade Grimes spoke about Dolce & Gabbana’s public appeal to prevent same - sex couples from adopting children. Elton John and his husband, with whom they had adopted children, responded to Martin Navratilov, in short, people who had been fighting for the rights of the same sex for over 30 years, and in some ways denied this statement, for which Dolce & Gabbana also withdrew and apologized. We are talking about the declaration of human rights adopted by the United Nations with the 1948 anniversary. Of course, this is one of the basic documents, important, but from 1948 to today it has been almost 70 years, and in these 70 years things have changed, and things have changed. You cannot now ignore all other things, including the judgments of constitutional courts, the European Court and so on, on the basis of this declaration. I just want to get back to what's at stake today. We note that we are in a situation where we have adopted a law that eliminates unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and the only thing the National Assembly can do at this time, following constitutional changes and the meaningful application of Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, is to stop this referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u194	Before I give anything else, first one reminder. My colleague Anja Logar, given that you called in between when he spoke and that you insulted the vice president on a personal level in the morning or morning, I would like to give you a reminder. She was gallant enough to be gone. I've been waiting for him to do another such thing, and now he's done it. He called in the middle while his buddy was talking. And there is no other word in this hall than the one to whom I give the word. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has a procedural process.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u195	President, thank you so much for your word. Look, now you've alerted your colleague, Angeto Logar. And I am literally asking you to warn the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who did not give me a chance to proceed during the meeting. I raised my hand, I asked for a procedure, I didn't get a chance to explain what the content proposal was. And I ask that you treat all Members equally in this National Assembly. What the Vice-President has afforded is far worse than what you have today to remind your fellow Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u196	No, but there's not gonna be any accumulation of procedurals, at least not with me. [[advertising from the hall]] Does that mean you'd have a procedural and then a replica? I will first answer that previous question, and then I may also overlook that you have made another procedural proposal, because I can do so if I want to, and I will not do it. But I will certainly not say anything to my Vice-President and Vice-President because I respect their work. In particular, I respect the fact that they are dealing with such pressures, which they are literally trying to carry out physically. To deny someone’s professionalism to send him anywhere — not only to give a reminder, but to any profession that behaves this way toward itself — I don’t know if he deserves the name of the profession. In this way, it is not surprising that people do not have respect for the National Assembly because of the way we beat it together. Even when we can be respectful to one another, we do not treat each other with respect. You can do that sometimes with a ton. So, I answer your procedural questions so that I don't accept them, because as chairman, I can decide on these matters. That's what the rules of procedure tell me to do. Now I give you my word for the replica. I'm just asking you to tell me where you were misunderstood first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u197	I have also been named in the implementation of the proposalr's colleague. You must have heard that, President. This is because article 90 of the Constitution is very clear, but I reiterate that there was no anti-constitutional situation with this law. This court has never said that. However, I have told you what the European Court of Human Rights has said. Clearly, the marriage of same-sex couples is not a human right. And if anything's wrong, we should be fixing another law that already exists. That's what I'm talking about. And last but not least, thank you for naming me my fellow opposition. At least now I know you're in position as we speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u198	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u199	Let us read once again the fourth indent of Article 90: About laws that abolish anti-constitution in the field of human rights. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations, as proposed, eliminates unconstitutionality in the field of human rights, because the definition of the marriage that is now written and enshrined in this law gives rise to a whole range of human rights that I have counted and will not be renumbered. And this is the abolition of the anti-constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u200	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In these cases, when it comes to manifestly false allegations, you, as chairman, should also react and point out to the one who is discussing this way. The unconstitutionality of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations has never before been judged by the Constitutional Court in history. This law has not been judged by the court. The abolition of unconstitutionality in this law is only in the event that the Constitutional Court decides and finds it, but does not. If you find the Law on Marriage and Family Relations unconstitutional, then I suggest, Mr President, that you refer the motioners and signatories to submit for constitutional review before the Constitutional Court, so that we can find out if this is true. The Constitutional Court found unconstitutionality in the Succession Act, but that decision had already been rectified, and was implemented without a hitch. I suggest, Mr President, that when you hold a meeting, you also pay attention to these nonsensees and lies that are being sent to political and other public spaces. This indication is not eloquently true. If the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is unconstitutional, then I suggest you reach a decision of the Constitutional Court, and you will prove it. If you have this decision, we'll sit down and go. If this decision is not available, then do not talk about the unconstitutionality of this law, because there is no basis for it. The unconstitutionality of the law is determined solely by the Constitutional Court, which establishes non-constitutionality by a decision, and the National Assembly is given the task of abolishing unconstitutionality. There is no such document under the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, Mr President. What you do in this law and with this decision is a completely simple bluff. It's a completely ordinary bluff. This is one false provocation that you, as president of the National Assembly, have also allowed — to discuss the unconstitutionality of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Look at the records of the National Assembly or the Constitutional Court and you will see that this is not true. It would be best for the debaters to discuss in such a way, to point out that they should speak on the basis of the legal basis or the act which has established this. I suggest you do it. I also propose, Mr President, because I am already speaking to you to ask the Government if there is anything new to the question that I have asked three or four times before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u202	Thank you for discussing the procedural issue. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mrs Erika Deklava.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u203	Mr President, thank you very much, but in the meantime I have found that I have 10 seconds and the darkness is too serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u204	Mrs Erika Dekleva has the floor to prepare Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u205	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! After so many hours of discussion on this subject, I don't know what else to add. The fact is, we've already told each other everything, twice, at a meeting of the Labour Committee and today for the second time at a meeting of the National Assembly. I think we can draw the line and we all agree on just one thing, namely that we disagree. Just like I've been handed out to the public. The fact is, in the end, the Constitutional Court will decide. However, the debates are obviously of no importance, for everyone remains in his position, and in this national assembly we are all convinced of our right. The arguments don't help either. Mate Matthew explains something on the other side all the time, colleague Anja Bah Žibert jerks off and talks if it's not true, it's not true, and so of course we raise our reputation. Everyone is on their own shore, and that is all we have achieved after many hours of discussion on this topic. Even today, we can still talk about how terrible this is because old parents will not be able to adopt children as if they could. So far, it hasn't been a problem, it hasn't been a problem. That's just suddenly become a problem. In fact, it's just a manipulation tool. We talk, but we don't hear from each other or we don't understand each other or maybe we don't want to get along. Colleague Ludmila Novak, for example, still wonders why we're stopping people who collect signatures, as if they don't understand that most people can't make decisions about minorities when it comes to human rights. And today we've been back to raising children, but you know, it's not about raising them. It's about teaching our children, teaching them. We have to tell our children and probably tell them that there are wars in the world, but we disagree with them. We oppose wars in principle and teach them that there are wars in this world. It is also likely that we should tell our children, regardless of the adoption of this law, that there are different families in this world, not because of the law. Today, too, there are traditional, single parents, rainbows, and probably others. This is the education that everyone has, regardless of the adoption of the law. I would also like to touch on the discussions of colleagues from Nova Slovenije. As was understood today, they still believe that the comment of their member, Irene Vadnjal, which was published on the websites, is not problematic. If that's what they think, I don't know why they took him away. He seemed very troubled to me personally. Most people, including faithful people, seemed very troubled. Irena Vadnjal stated that the Bible requires death for the sin of homosexuality. Death. I don't know if it's acceptable and non-problematic or if the hate speech is just one nice word for this record. I think we can all recognize how thin the line between freedom of speech and hate speech is. I personally believe that we are following here most of the developed world on the path to equality. I am proud to belong to a group that supports this law, and so it will be to the end and irrespective of the decision of the Constitutional Court. And colleague Hear, absolutely and without a bad conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u206	Before continuing, let me just inform you if anyone has accidentally overlooked that two amendments of the SDS Group have been tabled at point 1 to be deleted and point 2 to be deleted. Now he has a replica of Mr. Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Since I have debated today and I cannot agree with my predecessor that today's debate was pointless, I would say the following. Our leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Tanko, has proposed that this item, which I can personally name as a rapeist, should be removed from the agenda. Most of the people in the National Assembly didn't understand that. When we listen all day – otherwise we didn't listen much – to the government's representative, nothing of all. Today, when the Slovenian public listens to the government representative, I hear nothing. They haven't answered a single question, the only fundamental question, the government's opinion on the matter we've been talking about all day. I repeat, I cannot agree that we are making no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u208	Did anyone else have a replica? [[No, no, ……]] Procedurally, mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u209	Mr President of the National Assembly, I think these replicas are really being used to debate. Please, if you'll take action, because this wasn't a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u210	I absolutely agree it wasn't a replica. I accept your proposal, and I remind Mr Podkrodsk's Member of Parliament. The replica means that they misunderstood you, not that someone else defined you as you like, because this is where the debate is going. Since the amendments are still being tabled, you will also have room to apply later, and you can discuss them. So I would ask that we no longer burden this time with replicas, but that we continue with those who are reported to the word. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. But let's be really procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u211	Of course, Mr. President, don't worry. Once again, I would like to ask you to obtain the Government's position on the solution provided for in this Decision, whether the Government supports the suspension of the signatures for the referendum invitation. This was a question that I addressed an hour and a half ago, and I propose that before we conclude this debate, we get this opinion from the Government. If he cannot be provided by the present one, you will receive new ones who will be able to say something about it, or in writing, but it does not matter. Secondly, I ask you very much, Mr President, to share that constitutional decision on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which establishes unconstitutionality in this law. In fact, there has been a lot of talk today about the unconstitutionality of this law, which is the subject of a request for a referendum, but I would like to see a decision of the Constitutional Court relating to it. And the third thing I am asking you to do is to gain the position of the leader of your parliamentary group, if you still hold that the referendum is the only institution that is valid more than the parliamentary majority. It was publicized, it's on your website. I would like to know if this claim is still valid, and I would like you to gain the position of head of your delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u212	So you're addressing me with three procedural requests. The purpose of all three procedural requests is the same as all procedural requests made today, and that is to say without running out of time for you to discuss. That's why none of these three are going to work. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. You'll get procedural after that because I've already told you mine and you won't answer in the middle. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare for Mr Jože Tanko, and you will then tell whether you want to discuss it on a procedural basis or whether you want to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u213	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, thank you so much for letting me even come in here to discuss this. A few minutes ago, I heard an interesting thesis that the rights of minorities today are called rapes. Interesting. On yesterday's committee, at today's parliamentary session, we have indeed heard many things. It is quite clear that we have very different opinions on the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. We have the right to do so. We form our opinions from our value system, from the environment we come from, based on experience and so on. In particular, my opinion is guided by Article 14 of the Constitution, which states that we are all the same before the law, regardless of the circumstances, inter alia, regardless of gender, we have been repeating it for hundreds of years. Among other things, I sensed great fear, fear that the law interfered with the upbringing of children, that children would have mental distress, that children would want traditional families. Let me reassure you: no one, indeed, interferes with the upbringing of your children. No one will take your children away from you and no one will tell you that you must not go on living as you do today. Really, no one is going to take those rights away from you. It is true, however, that we have allowed equal rights before the law for same-sex couples, so that we are granting a new right, a human right. That's my opinion. Let me give you some more information where the legislation already exists in some Member States of the European Union. And you won't believe it. Life goes perfectly normal there. Denmark – same-sex couples have the right to adopt a child since 2009, and marriage is possible from 2012. The Netherlands – since 2001 the marriage and adoption of same-sex couples. Belgium – Family, marriage, divorce and children are regulated by a civil code that says two persons of different or equal sex can enter into a marriage. Adoptions have been possible since 2006. Not to mention all of them, especially Spain, Sweden, Great Britain, France. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that in these countries families, children live worse because of these changes? Are they violating fundamental human rights? I don't think so. Today, among other things, we heard the following. Mrs. Beautiful Šimenka says Children are not our toys that we can buy. I'm sorry. Nobody's giving anyone rights today that we can buy children. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert mentions the child is not a human right; it is a gift. This means, then, that according to your own heterogeneous couples should not adopt a child because, under different circumstances, they do not have the gift of naturally having a child. However, I fully agree that the child is not a human right and that all decisions in any area must be for the sole benefit of the child. But once again, if a heterogeneous couple doesn't have a gift, then shouldn't they adopt a child? Mr Branko Grims mentioned the famous Dolce & Gabbana couple that they publicly stated that they did not want their children because they would be stigmatized. And I ask, who stigmatizes these children? I don't! I'm defending these children's rights today. That was my opinion, the opinion of a Member who is not a lawyer who is not a doctor of science. However, I also have the opportunity to read the opinion of the Chamber of Clinical Psychologists of Slovenia, the Association of Psychotherapists of Slovenia and the Department of Development Psychology of the Faculty of Philosophy, which says: "Keys for children's development are processes in the family such as the quality of parenthood and the educational style, the quality of relationships and satisfaction with relationships, the relationship and support, cooperation and harmony between parents and the psychosocial well-being of parents. Composition of the family, for example the number of family members, their gender and sexual orientation..." – I stress that sexual orientation – "... has no significant impact on children's development. As effective as in the traditional family, the conditions for healthy development of the child can also provide structurally different families." That's what experts say. That's what doctors say, I trust them, and I believe them. As far as the referendum is concerned, we were taught yesterday that this is also human rights. Again, I fully agree with this statement. However, this issue needs to be particularly sensitive as this right is limited in certain segments. This restriction is enshrined in article 90, which states that the referendum is not allowed to be discussed on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights. That is why I also support today the decision to reject the invitation to a legislative referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u214	Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u215	I don't have much time left, so I'll hurry. Today was my computer, my mailbox was once again confused with e-mails in support of the referendum. It's amazing who's being denied rights here. The abolition of the anti-constitution is a violation of the Constitution for you, the abolition of the wrongs is a crime for you, and the cessation of the deprivation of human rights is a violation of human rights. How do you know that equality is a threat to all of you and that it is just as you live and think? It should be noted that all Catholics do not share your opinion. They are asking us to remain firm and not give up on the darkness and finally to settle the painful problem that is most concerned with the faithful part of the same sex population, because they are under unbearable pressure from the environment in which they must live in hiding and lies. But lying is a mortal sin, as we know. And as Paul's letter unto the Galatians saith, There is neither Judas, nor the Greek, nor a slave, nor a freeman, nor a man, nor a woman: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus. So I ask: Who gives you the right to judge? Who gives you the right to take the rights of your brothers and fellow citizens? This referendum is not admissible and it is not permissible to ask this question now or later, as most cannot decide on the rights of a minority. As far as you go, I'm interested. 40-day prayer, 12-hours, before maternity is an unbearable pressure on doctors who perform abortions. Will this be the next topic for your referendum? Just as it was once inconceivable that women became equal, and when we got the general election right, we are now fighting, we are fighting, for the rights of the same-sex. Your rights will not be undermined in any way, but many will gain much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u216	Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally, I presume.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u217	Dear President! Again there was much talk about preventing the elimination of the anti-constitutional consequences. Now, I ask you, Mr President of the National Assembly, because the proposer does not do so to inform this National Assembly, or with regard to any provision of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, if any, and if there is, whether it has found any unconstitutionality in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which is the subject of this decision or this item of the agenda. I'm asking for your explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u218	Thank you for asking. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. On such important issues, which we have been talking about for several hours now, I must say that I am very surprised that there is no minister among us and that the representatives of the governments are anemic about the matter, they are listening. Their cell phones are about to start with everything they need to read, and they still have full time. I would suggest that you really say something about what we are talking about today, because opinions are very shared, and it would be really good for you to come forward in the middle. In addition, 40,000 signatures have been collected today, and it would be good to have something to say on this subject regarding this support. The referendum is due to what you have adopted in the National Assembly, that is, the result of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, its novels. So you made your own referendum. One of the pamphlets from the pre-election promises of one of the parties against the referendum today, in his point Direct democracy and transformation of the country, writes: "Our aim is to achieve a continued process of active decision-making, not just occasional involvement in elections. The greater role of citizens is a prerequisite for the further development of democracy. To the greatest extent possible, interest in public affairs should be encouraged, i.e. the transition from representative democracy to more participatory. The emphasis should be on the decision-making process and not just on the verification of public opinion or the exchange of arguments." You must recognize each other. The United Left wrote it down very nicely, and it's about direct democracy. I want to know where this direct democracy of yours is today. Maybe you're afraid of voters or something? Very much for a man, you brought this law through after a reduced procedure. The call for an extraordinary meeting in three days, so that even the government failed to prepare its opinion. Yesterday on the committee, Mrs Wolfe, the secretary-general, said she had not succeeded, but she might succeed overnight. Well, by 9:33 a.m., she's only succeeded, not what we're doing today, what Mr. Tanko has already said. You've been saying all day it's about eliminating the anti-constitution created by the law. You refer to article 90 of the Constitution, and we have already read to you that, at the time of the change in article 90, Mrs Maša Kociper, then President of the Constitutional Commission, said that only articles which were proposed as non-constitutional in order to eliminate unconstitutionality could be amended by a decision of the Constitutional Court. I am interested in which article in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was considered to be unconstitutional. I don't know any articles, but it would be really good if you told us. The next thing, which is a major manipulation and fraud by the coalition, is which European countries all allow adoption and which European countries have already adopted these laws. In 1997, the Netherlands adopted a law on registered partnership, not on marriage, and allows adoption, but only of biological parents. So if two lesbians get married, the second can only adopt a biological child first. The same is true in Spain, the same is true in Germany. The most advanced is Sweden, which allows adoptions of children – Mrs Potočnik, so much for your information, not Denmark, but Sweden – by not working in this area since 2000, like other European countries, or in 1997, but working on it since 1994, and this has been a long process, a very long process. At the same time, in Sweden today there are lawsuits against those children who have been adopted into same-sex partnerships. Germany, which you like to stress so much, has a registered partnership law from 2011 and does not allow adoption. No, I'm not telling you this, but in general, because it's very much mentioned. So stop manipulating how other countries allow it, how they allow adoption. They only allow it when it comes to biological parents. You also say that same - sex partners or homosexuals are discriminated against because they cannot marry. It has already been said today, in 2012 and 2014, the European Court of Human Rights said that marriage or same-sex marriage is not a human right, but you still refer to these decisions. It would be good if you could tell us exactly what these decisions say. You keep talking about the rights of adults, and you forget the rights of children, and the rights of children are over the rights of adults. You're probably well aware of that. Today you also talked about children who are in families where they are subjected to psychological, physical violence, and that this is not right. I agree. It would be good for the coalition to finally tackle those laws, those measures that would help single - parent families who are at the brink of social ruin, which are below the poverty threshold, to help those children who live below the poverty threshold. And don't ask us where we are with the laws, because we're not in the government. You are in government, and you are expected to take such measures. Not that you rejected the 4 million amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party for Education Children. Not that you're sharing great copyright fees, instead of giving these fees to young researchers when we're talking about a former secretary. Again, do not ask us where the laws to improve the social situation of people in Slovenia are. Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that no one should be harassed by arbitrary interference with his private life, his family, his apartment or his correspondence, and so on. By what you do, by adopting the Marriage and Family Relations Act, you interfere with my family or in my upbringing or in how I, under the new law, teach my children, because under the new law, you want or refuse to admit, the curriculum will change. That is also what Mrs Vuk kept silent on the committee at the time when I asked her if she could tell me how this would affect the curriculum. And she was wise to keep her mouth shut because she knew exactly what that meant. You also manipulated the committees when the law was passed, so that the Law on Marriage and Family Relations does not affect other laws. You're coming today with number 70. Of course, we can say that it does not affect directly because other marriages contain parents, not husbands, and wives, directly. The ZPS was also unable to answer this question. But today it appears to affect so many and so many laws. You're also talking about evolution, that we're on some timeline in the evolution of human development. And I'm curious, because obviously the Modern Center Party, which is very modern, knows where we are when two men are going to have a baby and two women have a baby – please tell me where we are. I've told you this isn't evolution. Evolution is a biological process. But we can talk about the evolution of laws, development and so on. But not to convince me that this is normal evolution after Darwin, so that the same-sex can reproduce a new life. I simply cannot agree or agree with such matters. You're saying you'll also give this right to a minority that's now being deprived. One good article you can read is a comparison with minorities — mag. Silva Shinkovac. If you don't know him, he's a defectologist, a philosopher, a theologian, a psychologist, so he looks at things from a different perspective. What I'm going to read is his comparison of what you do when you change the Marriage and Family Relations Act when you change the law that talks about homo sapiens. Only this: "Everything that is the subject of human rights could already be regulated in the legislation if the applicants did not insist on changing the definition of family. I take that as a violent interference with reality. The concept of family has meaning, and we can't change it. This is as if we were to give the national minority of Italians and Hungarians rights while at the same time changing the definition of Slovenians. Slovenian is a concept of himself and we do not change it because of the rights of other nationalities. But we are talking about a respectful and cooperative relationship between nations. Should other Slovenians speak Italian or Hungarian because of their rights? Why would Italians or Hungarians feel less valuable if Slovenians spoke Slovenian? Human rights do not challenge the identity of others." By amending the Marriage and Family Relations Act, you do exactly that. In Article 53 of the Constitution, we have heard it so many times, the State protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates special conditions for this protection. To this day, you have not made any changes that would protect your family, motherhood, fatherhood, and especially family, about which you all knew much about how to protect it. This is what my colleague Bratusek was talking about, how we were nowhere when things happened in the families. Nowhere, no law, nothing to do with it. You're also interfering with my rights, as the Minister has said. In fact, we're talking about adoptions in same-sex relationships again. This violates my rights and does not say that I am not being taken away from anything, because I do not want my children to be raised by such a community. But by law, I don't have a chance, anywhere to officially write it down, to confirm that I don't allow it. This was also stated by the Minister at one of the meetings on TV. So, no matter what happens, don't hold it back. And with that, you're violating my rights. Article 55 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia tells you that we are free to decide on the birth of children. Does that hold? Is this going to keep it under the new law? Two of you will be able to decide that you will have children, two men, if you and I have children now. You've made your choice. But you need a third person to do that, you need a woman to do that, and here we start talking about surrogate motherhood. Some also point to other consequences in such women as we already know, that is, the psychological pressures on these women and so on. Of course, this will not happen today or tomorrow, but it is the result of this law. And the fact that we are different is our wealth, and we must accept that we are patient with each other to exchange opinions, but we cannot ask each other to agree with everything. And if we have our opinion on this law, it does not mean that we are impatient, that we are homophobic, that we are hateful or anything, because I think that none of us who advocates the referendum spoke of being against homosexual relations and so on, but protected this traditional family, which is also enshrined in Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Look, it's a minority, as you call it, of a thousand 500 registered homosexuals. And I wonder if you know how many same-sex relationships there are in Slovenia and how many divorces there are. Do you even know what we're talking about, what numbers we're talking about, what minority we're talking about? I guess no one knows. There are 22 such associations in statistics, but divorces are not even mentioned because these relationships are not long - term or usually do not last long after these statistics. So once again, I will stand alone against stopping the referendum or stopping this process, because, once again, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in no article is unconstitutional. Marriage is not a human right. So there's no discrimination. Nor is human rights, which follows from this law, i.e. children or adoptions, and I would really like the coalition that has written in its coalition contract that in recent years Slovenia has become too much of a society in which the positive foundations of social integration are falling apart, and is therefore without perspective, a society of mistrust and manipulation, a society in which man is no longer a goal and a value, and often only a means of those who are led primarily by greed for power and money, this article has been repaired, by laws, by actions and also by allowing a referendum. But no, even yesterday on the board I heard, whether we are the majority, we are the majority in the National Assembly, whether you like it or not, we also have the majority in the State Council, whether you like it or not, and we will accept it if you like it or not. And that's a long way from what you wrote in here, and from what you have written on your website when you talk about morality, ethics and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, you want procedural? You'll tell me about what. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Madam President. In all this time, only one question has been raised to the government and seven or ten times repeated: Does the Government support the suspension of signatures for the referendum invitation? The only question raised by the Government and this question has not yet been answered. I don't expect anything else, no treaties, but I expect just a simple answer: Yes or no? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u222	Thank you. Now you've abused procedurally. And it was the government's turn that I now give her my word. Ms Martina Vuk, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You know what the old saying says: "He who is silent will answer a hundred." And many times. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u224	May I have your attention, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u225	Many times it's true. Now let's do it in a row. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded an opinion to the National Assembly which adopted it, in which it notes and communicates that the invitation to a legislative referendum on the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations would be incompatible with the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Let us look at the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution. It states that the referendum is not allowed to be declared: on the laws on urgent measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters; on the laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory duties, and on the law to be adopted for the implementation of the State budget; on the laws on the ratification of international treaties and on laws to eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. I will read once again the last line that says About laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. It does not refer to laws that eliminate the established anti-constitutionality in the field of human rights or other established non-constitutionality. You may recall that this word has also been quite mentioned in the past, including in the preparation and adoption of this constitutional law. If we move on. Today it has been said many times that we do, because we have two decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have found unconstitutional, but by amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, we will not end this in any way, because it has not been found that the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is unconstitutional. But [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's nice to be a part of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u226	Quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u227	But the anti-constitution is being eliminated in many ways, as we probably know. Not only by directly amending that article or that paragraph, but also by eliminating unconstitutionality by another law. That's how anti-constitution is eliminated. And in that case, that's exactly what this is about. The last amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations laid down, with these eight articles adopted, that a marriage can be made by two persons and that an extramarital relationship consists of two persons, different or the same sex. Yesterday it was said that if marriage is not a right, marriage is a status. Yes, you can. It can also be a status. But if you gain this status, you can exercise your rights, and here we are at the point. If you gain this status, if you can make a marriage or if your same-sex partner is a partnership, your partnership is recognized and aligned with the extramarital community of two persons of different sexes, then you will be given the opportunity to exercise certain rights. You know, so many times today we've heard why we're dealing with this thing, why we're wasting time, why you're not dealing with more important things, why you're not eliminating poverty, why you're not supporting our amendments. But if you'll excuse me, when was the marriage? He'd be in place within 15 days. He'd be established within 15 days, and we could be dealing with a lot of other people. And don't think the whole government's been waiting all this time just to be able to deal with such and similar meetings. But you know, maybe for most people, that's really not an important topic. Maybe most people think it's an irrelevant topic, a completely irrelevant topic, because they don't know what to do with it. Then I wonder why there's so much noise around this marriage if it's such a very irrelevant topic. If people find that this does not affect them, why do we deal with it so much? But if you ask the same sex if you ask your partners who are of the same sex, but they don't care when your partner gets seriously ill, whether they can exercise their right to care and get a reward for it or not. When you ask these same-sex partners or partners, do they care if one partner or partner is out of a job or can be insured after another partner or partner, they don't care. Whether she can be recognized as her own in proceedings — they don’t care, and that’s why it’s happening. You know, this law really does not affect most people, so it is not right that most people deal with it in such a way that persons of the same sex who are in partnership, for whom the Constitutional Court has also found that it is essential for the same factual and legal basis of the community and that the distinction in the legal order of both communities, including the legal consequences of these communities, is based solely and solely on sexual orientation. And now we come back to this glorious constitution of ours. Today we were all lawyers and lawyers, so much so that we all know this legal order, the hierarchy of legal acts, how everything interprets. There's nothing wrong with that. That's very nice. However, we now reach Article 14 of the Constitution, which speaks of equality before the law, and we come to a sexual orientation that must not be the basis for distinction. Which must not be the basis for the distinction. And I'm going to say again: which must not be the basis for the distinction. Therefore, the exercise of rights for same-sex partners must not be limited. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u228	Quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u229	We've announced 30 minutes. I've been listening for the past two hours, why don't I call incompetent and incompetent to be a lower official. I may be really low on growth, but I'm sorry, but I can't afford to say I'm incompetent and incompetent. [[Applause]] Let's move on. We say that the child’s benefits are above all that we all forget the rights of children and that these are the first, basic and those that we must always consider in the first place — absolutely true. That's absolutely true. And that was said today, and I was right to write: CSD will have the opportunity to give a child the same-sex community. Please, now I need to protect our social work centers, where really competent people work, where they do their best, and you don't want to hear what stories they hear, how they really work for the benefit of children. Then we hear that social work centers will have the opportunity to give a child! But this is where it ends. Here I wonder if the people who now sign applications for the referendum in administrative units know what this law is talking about, do they know what the content is, or do they know how to take care of children. I'm just wondering. According to the polls on TV, we've seen a lot of answers. Let's move on. It has been said that we are imagining how many countries allow marriages, the equalization of the marriage of heterosexuals with the partner community of same-sex couples, how it is almost impossible to adopt a third child, that is, a non-biological child of a partner. Andorra, since 2014, an equalization with the marriage and the authorisation of adoption of third parties. Argentina since 2010, Belgium since 2006, Brazil since 2010, Canada in the majority, not all provinces since 1999, Denmark since 2010, France since 2013, Iceland since 2006, Israel since 2008, Luxembourg since 2015, Malta since 2014, the Netherlands, the Netherlands, the Netherlands since 2001. Indeed, in 1997 the Netherlands passed the Registration Act and so on, but went on. This social evolution, as illustrated, followed, and in 2001 equalized the marriage relationship with the partner community and allowed adoption of third children. New Zealand in 2013, Norway in 2009, South Africa in 2002, Spain in 2005, Sweden in 2002, Great Britain or the United Kingdom, Austria very recently by a decision of their Constitutional Court. Not to mention, the list is still pretty long. Well, I could, because I have 14 minutes and a half left, but let's move on. Let's move on to or back to where it all starts. And it all starts with stereotypes when some individual properties are taken stereotypically as typical of a social group. And when these individual traits are attributed to the inferior means, we come to prejudice. And when people internalize and implement these prejudices and live in harmony with them, because that is a universal fact, naturally recognized, logical, self-evident, mostly justified, that is when we come to discrimination. And when we get to discrimination, it's very, very late and we need to take it seriously. Discrimination is prohibited in our country, not permitted. The novelty of this law is one step towards preventing discrimination that happens to same-sex couples. One of the steps. Let's move on. Between 90 and 100 registrations of same-sex partnerships were registered from 2004 to today. So, a few more than 90 of these registrations. But the rights that partners in this registration, from this registered same-sex partner community, belong to are tax-listed in the law. The taxis are listed. And when the Constitutional Court ruled on the first initiative on unconstitutionality in 2009, it decided that it was unconstitutional to distinguish registered same-sex couples from spouses in marriage. In 2013, it decided that it was unconstitutional to distinguish unregistered same-sex couples from extra-marital partners in an extra-marital relationship. And now we can wait, and I don't think we can wait for an individual case to come to the Constitutional Court, and they will find again that it is unconstitutional that the partner cannot apply leave for the care of the partner in the event of a serious illness, as is the case with the spouses of the marriage and the extramarital partners. We will find that it is unconstitutional that partners of the same sex cannot be treated as family members in individual procedures and so on. And that's where we get to. So now you can say that the novel of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations interferes with 70 other laws. It gives rights to people who will enter into a marriage or who will live in an extramarital community. These persons are given the rights laid down in other laws, where it says "marriage, spouse" or, because it is equally taken into account for extramarital partners, the same applies. Thus, this law does not change the provisions of other laws, as was said yesterday, when you see why Zuyfu’s objection to other laws has been made, but if it has so far been interfered with. Because in one marriage, Zyphus listed, dashed, and changed the articles of other laws. In one marriage, he listed all these articles, drew them, and changed them, rescinded them, and so on. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations only provides that the Law on Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community ceases to apply because it is fully integrated in this novel, and nothing else. In any other law, it does not change the articles, it does not change them or delete them. So there's a difference. Substitute motherhood in the Republic of Slovenia was not allowed, was not allowed, was not considered to be permitted, and there was no draft law, there was no discussion about it. So the fear of the future is a little unrealistic. Many times it was obvious why the government withdrew its bill. After all, the government had prepared its partnership law, and it had withdrawn it because it was some covert, secret plan to sidestep, with the help of someone else, one such law as the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Two governments held a public debate on the draft Partnership Law, two governments. The second time the public debate on the Law on the Partnership was concluded, a proposal for the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was tabled in the Legislative Procedure of the National Assembly. So the government did not withdraw its marriage. This law was not introduced because another law had been introduced earlier, and then the government concluded in its opinion that it did not object and that it would not oppose this proposed amendment. You know, when we hear that if we went just a few steps back, if we just allowed enough time to debate, if only it was possible to reconcile in any way, because we are all patient I have said several times that a patient way of giving explanations, a tolerant way of speaking does not really mean non-discriminatory, patient or not based on prejudices. [[...]] In 1997, the first initiative was given to amend the Law on Marriage and Family Relations as it is now adopted. In 1997! In the years 2000 to 2004, there were discussions about another law that had never entered the parliamentary procedure. ZRIPS was adopted in 2004. And then we come up with a family code that was a pretty big compromise that symbolically preserved the distinction between marriage and partnership. Who didn't allow the adoption of third parties. He did not allow it to be generally acceptable for it to be a compromise in order to take a step forward. What a defeat over the family code! But one more thing. Remember, the family code also regulated family relationships that we do not have today because we cannot reach the point where we adopt one such law that is urgently needed. We don't have this today! Why? Because some compromise that is universally acceptable today was obvious. But when these two public debates about the law on the partnership community were held there, it was explicitly said that the partners of the same sex formed a partnership. It was stipulated in a special law. It has been explicitly said that the Law on the Partnership Community does not affect the area of adoption and does not interfere with the area of fertilization with biomedical assistance, so what happened? The exact same arguments as to why this law should never come into Parliament's procedure! Perfectly identical arguments as we hear them today! So one really wonders if we are going to step forward or step forward and always find some reasons to talk quietly and stay where we are. And once again, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted an opinion that the invitation to a legislative referendum on the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations would be incompatible with the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u230	Two answered, Mrs Jelka Godec and Mr Jože Tanko. Who wants the first word, the first one to come forward? The one who is first in line of procedure is Mrs Jelka Godec. What do you want, replica? Okay. Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u231	Mrs. Wolf, now we've seen you speak, you know, there's poison in small bottles. You said it, you said it, but you can't tell me what I can do inside and how to raise and so on. You can't decide that. And if social work centres are so good, then why does the minister want to reform them? And why don't you tell me what the point is? Why don't you say it like you said on the Health Committee? You said when a child is born – oh, not when a person is born. And you put your marriages in there today because you know you have power! Before that, you couldn't have had any marriage. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u232	Before proceeding, I will first find that it was an abuse of the replica, because it was not a replica, but it was a debate, so I am warning you, Mrs Jelka Godec, or giving a reminder. First of all, Mr Jože Tanko had, unfortunately, in order. Mr Jože Tanko, on a procedural basis, I hope that this will not be an abuse of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u233	Mr President, we did not have now and we do not have a general debate on the law on family relations, other laws and I do not know what is on the agenda. We have a debate on the rejection decision. The government has proposed an opinion. And what this little lady was saying has absolutely nothing to do with [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u234	Mr. Jože Tanko, you will not be harmed in this House! That's not a little lady for you! For you, it's the secretary of state!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u235	Sir, I'll say what she said. And you, who have been so precise in these discussions and reminders by members of the opposition parties, especially ours, have not intervened with a single word because she did not talk about the agenda and did not talk about the government's position on this agenda – about everything else! About everything else! At least that might be a warning that constitutional changes, constitutions, laws are passed by the National Assembly, not by the government. Comments and mandatory explanations are provided by the National Assembly, not by government or by government officials. What is crucial, Mr President, is that the first section states that the Government does not support the call for a referendum. However, I asked ten times whether the Government supported the suspension of the signatures for the referendum, and I did not get an answer from the Government. Even in this Treaty, which now lasted almost 20 minutes, there was no such answer. I suggest you make sure that we get the Members – this is of interest to us because by what you are doing, you will interrupt the procedure – the answer to the question whether the Government will stop the process of collecting signatures for the referendum supports or not. Everything else is not the subject of the agenda item. We could figure that out for ourselves. I'm not interested in anything else, I'm not interested in a social work center, I'm not interested in anything else. We are talking about the decision to reject the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum and what is written here. The Secretary of State may speak of the Government's opinion, but do not speak. However, I would like to know whether the Government supports the collection of signatures for the referendum or supports the suspension of the collection of signatures for the referendum. There hasn't been an answer for hours. I suggest you take care of it. That's why you're president of the National Assembly, so you're inviting the government to the meetings, so the government representatives are coming to the meeting to say that, but they're obviously not saying that. Anything else, they have all the time you want. By the way, also for teaching, for discrediting Members and so on. Be right for everyone! But I want an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u236	What I'm about to say will be a repeat of what I've said several times. But I'm gonna add one thing. As broad a debate as all other debaters have allowed is also open to the debater, who is a representative of the government. A government representative or a government representative shall say what he wishes to say, but he shall not say and must not reply. Just as it is not only the opinion of the Government that there is an urgent condition for the continuation of the procedure, there is no definition of your question as a prerequisite for continuing this meeting and adopting a decision. Now Mr Matjaž Han has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I'm happy to have waited a little while. I've counted it a little bit. I know that Mrs Martine Vuk, State Secretary coming from my party, does not need to be defended, but I will defend her as a gentleman and as a social democrat, and I want an apology from Mrs Godec and Mr Tank. It's usually in the nature of people that when you don't have an argument, you start to resent it. The fact that Members who have been in office for many years have dropped to such a low level and have insulted the Secretary of State, I think it is unacceptable, unacceptable for Members and unacceptable for this Assembly of State. That is why I request, President of the National Assembly, that you request an apology from Mrs Godec and Mr Tank regarding the insult of the Secretary of State. I didn't realize you were capable of going this low. Believe that my language is also well oiled and that I can find some regret for your side now, but I will abstain because I want to have some level in this national assembly. But I must say that a young lady, who is a top official, who is a very good secretary of state, is to be offended in this way, because she has served you with arguments that you will have to write down in your political history. You've crossed every line. Mrs Godec, as a lady, we should apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u238	I ask Mr Tank and Mrs Godec to apologize to the Secretary of State. Who wants procedural? Mr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that you are the President and the President, and that you are the one who is interpreting the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to follow this Rules of Procedure and to use the same vats for everyone in this National Assembly. I used to say very kindly that I want a competent person to work in this place. I was very kind. I wasn't insulting anyone. And then you guys at SD told them to back off and sit down at this chair by yourself. And colleague Han is the last one who can ask anyone or ask them to apologize. Comrade Han said in this place: Logar, be quiet. The President, the President, you have not reacted and now you are using double vats. You ask minority representatives to apologize, while coalition majority representatives can speak as much as they want. And you, the President, should be completely independent as the first of the same, not that when someone gives that opinion and then the crowd applauds him because he is directed towards the minority, you are applauding yourself, Mr President. As the first of the same, I ask you to be the first to respect the rules of procedure and to use the same vats for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u240	Thank you for your opinion. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Excuse me. This time, I made a mistake. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u241	Mr. Angie Logar, I apologize. When I cried out when I spoke, you jumped into my mouth and I screamed or said out loud to shut up. So I apologize deeply to you if this has hurt you. I already gave you my hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u242	Procedurally accepted. I assume you've got a procedure, too. Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u243	Thank you very much, President. Given that you are very generous today with reminders and that we are also moving forward – even asking individual Members to apologize – please do on behalf of those who have given more than 40,000 signatures, that the secretary, by the way, is also a political office, and is an official and is not an official to apologize to all those who have been asked if they even know what they are doing. For if she did not do so or if she did not say so in her own name, I suppose that is the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Which means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has those who have signed – you know, for what? For a little shame and sad. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u244	Procedures shall be designed for procedural matters, for procedural requests or for the discussion of the procedure itself. I take note of what you have said, and I give the floor to Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u245	Thank you. After this gruesome debate that went beyond what was the point of the agenda, and obviously it was necessary, unfortunately we still haven't clarified anything. Things remain the same, everyone has their own views, and I'm afraid, or somehow I'm worried that unfortunately there's no way to operate anymore. I would briefly present only what we are here for today, what we have tabled as initiators, and what we are now about to vote on briefly. I will begin with the question raised: Where is that direct democracy advocated by the United Left? This answer is very simple: Today it is that direct democracy on the side of human rights. This has been explained since we introduced a new law on marriage. We have repeated this today when we started to explain this decision, and I am repeating this now in this conclusion. We should talk all the time about adopting a law in this national assembly in accordance with business regulations. We have adopted this law for one key reason and a certain consensus has been formed on this, namely to eliminate the unconstitutionality to eliminate discrimination between same-sex couples. Here I would like to touch on one additional question or one key aspect of this whole story and some difference resulting from the symbolic significance of this act. Of course, on the one hand, we have an end to anti-constitution, an end to this discrimination, which extends to a very wide range of human rights. A change in the definition of marriage and accordingly changes in the definition of the non-legislative community give rise to a large number of human rights and also to the duties we have as citizens and citizens. But there is also a symbolic question, and this is what I'm saying that we cannot compromise on human rights. We talked about the fact that marriage is not a human right, that marriage is a status, and so on. I don't think this debate is necessary. We're talking about why we'd let someone get married and not get married. If someone wants to, why can't they make a marriage? And here's the problem of compromise. And here is the problem that we had with this so-numbered ZRIPS or the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership. Two groups of persons who are essentially equal in their relationship were determined by two laws and thus differentiated their existence or essence. On the one hand, we had full-fledged citizens, diversified couples who could or could not be reported, but enjoyed the same rights as couples in a marriage relationship, and on the other hand we had one group of citizens who essentially had the same characteristics as this diverse community, which had a limited amount of rights and some particular form of formal conclusion of this relationship, and this is registration. We can register items, register cars, register machines, or I don't know what. We can't register a relationship between two people. I think that this symbolic importance is also very crucial to this issue, and the question of human rights and the elimination of this discrimination is in itself also a matter of human rights. You mention a very small number of registered same-sex partners. Of course, if you talk to such persons, if you talk to people who live in a long period of same - sex society, they will tell you that they do not want to go through this process because it is humiliating. Because it further reminds them that they are second-rate citizens, that they do not have the same rights and that they are not treated equally. That's why this number is so small. Some have gone so far as to register to make public what it means to register the same-sex partner community. And this symbolic meaning, and I repeat, is primarily symbolic — that we can say that everyone can now report, regardless of their sexual orientation, is very important. But the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations eliminates unconstitutionality in several areas, not only on this, and we have never claimed that this unconstitutionality is the anti-constitutionality of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Anti-constitutionality shall be established on the basis of Article 90 of the Constitution and constitutional provisions. The fourth indent of this second paragraph says – that is what we have heard today several times, but I will not avoid repeating it – the referendum is not allowed to discuss laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitution. It does not say anywhere that this unconstitutionality has been found to have been established by the Constitutional Court. He's talking about identifying unconstitutionality, eliminating unconstitutionality. It's the Marriage and Family Relations Act. It is a law that eliminates found and even a series of other contra-constitutions. We cannot wait for some of the initiators to make a constitutional judgement. We mentioned more than 70 laws. This means 70 constitutional judgments on laws and the amendment of these laws. That doesn't make any sense. And this argument, which you are now advocating, is not the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the one who was unconstitutional is completely empty or has no basis. As a result of this, the referendum is consequently inadmissible, because we have adopted, by a majority, with a strong, strong constitutional majority, the fact that the Constitution now states that referendums on legislation that eliminates unconstitutionality in the field of human rights are unacceptable. And according to the meaningful application and also the direct application of all the legal frameworks that we have in the Republic of Slovenia, there is only one action, and that is that when we find out, and the National Assembly is the one that finds that some referendum is unacceptable, it is necessary to stop it. This was the essence of the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution. It is no longer the National Assembly that gives the initiative to assess this to the Constitutional Court, but it is the National Assembly that decides not to call for a referendum. For this reason, I think that, despite the fact that we have exhausted the debate, it was clear that we have two views. In the end, I would only add that on the one hand there is a position that advocates following the stop, we follow mainly Article 14, equality before the law, and we defend human rights, protect them, protect them, add them, because we have fought for them, and on the other hand some resistance. I'm guessing it's some kind of resistance that comes out of a certain kind of fear. I hope there's no other motive for that. But I don't think there's any other way in this case than the one that we've drawn up with changes to both the constitution and the other legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u246	This concludes the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the points of the complementary proposal for a decision and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the first point of the amended proposal for a decision and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Of course, only those who have time to discuss can apply. No wish. So I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are moving on to a debate on the second point of the complementary proposal for a decision and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk about it? Nobody wants to discuss it here either. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. First, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the first point of the amended proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. We believe that this point should be deleted because the conditions laid down in the Constitution are simply not met in order to reject the referendum, both in the 90s, 97s and 99s. The rejection of the referendum can only take place by deciding on a referendum by a referendum decision under Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the basis of a request for a referendum. The proposed decision as a legal act also does not have all the formal elements required in terms of the principle of the rule of law - I am talking about Article 2 of the Constitution - and the right to effective legal protection - I am talking about Article 25 of the Constitution - since there is no relevant legal instruction on the time limit for the submission of legal protection to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an essential formal prerequisite for ensuring the right to effective legal protection and legal security of voters and voters who request a referendum. We are talking about rights, respectable, so we are proposing the withdrawal or deletion of this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u248	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the first point of the updated proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 52. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the second point of the amended proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 52. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the complementary proposal for a decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u249	Your Honor! In the SDS Group, we argue not only that it is unacceptable to prevent people from making a direct decision in this case, but that the law is even manifestly contrary to the Slovenian Constitution and the international acts which bind the State of Slovenia and if it is enforced that it should be repealed by the Constitutional Court. Why? Article 8 of the Slovenian Constitution is unequivocal: Laws and other regulations must comply with the generally applicable principles of international law and with international treaties which oblige Slovenia. Ratified and published international treaties shall apply directly. Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the United Nations in 1990, states: For all activities relating to children run by national institutions or legislative bodies, the child's benefits must be the primary guide. In this law this matter is turned upside down, for all your debates, all your arguments, all the introductions to this law and the explanations in the direction of putting the rights of the same sex first. However, you have all forgotten that under this international convention, which undoubtedly binds Slovenia, and also binds all of us, because the child's rights are applied directly after the stop, the first and those that must take precedence over everything else. We've heard so much about human rights today, but you've all forgotten that human rights are the most vulnerable groups of children in the first place. Not only because it's human, because it's only natural, because it's only normal, but also legal, because that's what we're being asked to do, and we're being bound by the UN Declaration, specifically the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This is particularly evident when we look at the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted in 1948 and is also ratified, published and committed to us all. However, Article 16 makes it very clear that the family is natural, natural, ladies and gentlemen, and a fundamental cell of society and has the right to social and state protection. This is further justified by the Slovenian Constitution, as you all know. But this article 16 is particularly important because paragraph 1 makes it very clear that they have the right to enter into a marriage and to establish a family of only women and men. Not a woman or a man, as you wrote in your marriage. There's a huge difference in that right. But the difference is even greater when it comes to human rights, for the moment when you interfere with these fundamental concepts, you are also violating the constitutional right set out in article 41 as legislators. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u250	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u251	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will not support the proposed decision. The decision that is proposed is completely unnecessary and in some ways undemocratic, according to our assessment. With simple logic, it is difficult to understand why some things are preemptive and premature. One logical order is that, if the National Assembly has approved the collection of the signatures for the referendum, then this National Assembly should wait until then to determine whether a sufficient number of signatures have been collected for this referendum. If it turns out that — and as reported today, a sufficient number of signatures have already been collected — over 40,000 signatures — then the National Assembly could deny the right to a referendum to the applicants and then the applicants could go to the Constitutional Court for their right. So your speed, your proposal in this light is completely incomprehensible. Moreover, according to our assessment, this law does not remove an unconstitutional state. Why? If you recall those debates when we changed constitutional arrangements and also matters affecting the referendum itself, it was clear and clear that the referendums would only be banned if they related to the concrete elimination of the unconstitutional consequences. As I am aware, the unconstitutional situation has not yet been established with regard to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. It was established in the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership, but not in this law, and this is another reason why this decision is unnecessary. In the New Slovenia Group we also hope that it will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u252	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u253	In the United Left we will support this decision, because we want to respect Article 14 of the Constitution first, equality before the law is said, and this is what the Law on Marriage and Family Relations applies. Perfect equality before the law, regardless of sexual orientation or personal circumstances. This is also in accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution, as amended by Article 90 of the Constitution, which states that the referendums are inadmissible to be declared on the basis of laws such as the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. These are laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights – not established unconstitutionality, but unconstitutionality, whatever. And that's what this proposal does. In short, it is necessary to take the view that human rights are above the rest. I think that this is the main guide that we must respect, human rights. And here are the children's rights and everyone else's rights. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations does not affect anyone's rights, but it only extends these rights. I say again: we don't take anything from anyone, but we only give. In short, the opposition to the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and the possible rejection at the referendum would constitute a violation of human rights at the expense of a mechanism which is no longer permissible in the Slovenian legal and constitutional order.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u254	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u255	Thank you, President, for your word. After many years of fighting for rights, for the rights of same-sex and for other rights, we are pleased to note that we have brought the matter to its final stage. We've done everything in our power. There were five of us from seven parliamentary groups who, one before the other, later participated in this project. We do not call this project a political project, but it is a social project, a social development project, a project of equality and human rights. For some, this may be a small step, but for all of us, who have been called as a Mauritiusan coalition, it is a very important social step, which means that Slovenia is in some ways taking sides with those who understand that we are all the same in our essence, that there is no difference between the yellow, black, brown, Roman Catholic religions, Muslims, whether they are same-sex or not, but basically we are all human. I hope that this awareness will be more present in our society from now on. The Social Democrats will unanimously support the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u256	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u257	In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a decision because we believe that the request for a referendum is inadmissible. Indeed, our fundamental programming guide is to respect the rule of law. We are therefore in favour of the rule of law, which includes respect for the right to equality before the law. The proposed law eliminates this inequality before the law, namely the right to enter into a marriage due to the specific circumstances of the individual. That is why this referendum is inadmissible and is legitimate under article 90 of the Constitution, and we will therefore also support this decision and thus give civilisation to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u258	Okay. I was wrong, but I pushed too fast. Wait. I'm breaking up. We are therefore moving on to a decision-making process in its entirety. Another explanation for the voice. So they will also continue to explain their voices. Please sign up. A self-explanation of the voice, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, chairman. I think there have been enough words in these days, why I myself will not support the proposal for a decision that we have before us. Perhaps I would like to reiterate the importance of why we were also elected to this national assembly. Finally, to protect families, what the Constitution says — to protect motherhood, fatherhood, and children. I miss this protection, I miss a broader approach to this, including by the Ministry at all the meetings of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The same options also mean for those who are otherwise beaten, but they do not have the same options. I think we're getting a lot of calls. Even those 11 individuals in Slovenia who are seeking justice at all stages of the courts in order to obtain a pension from the title of the self-sustaining war, we do not know that. There are 11 in Slovenia who need this matter. So it seems to me that everything, including those who support minorities, is full of mouths and that simply to those who are not to blame, not because of some direction, but because of the situation in Slovenia, we have not been able to listen. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u260	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I must say that I understand the feelings of the elderly, grandparents, even some fathers and parents, but we must find that time changes radically and relatively quickly, even under the influence of, if I may say so, techniques, science and these skills. Even though she's crazy, we know, she doesn't follow that fast. But today we are talking about the need to protect the minority, and this minority is formally protected by the Constitution. In order to protect the Constitution and to defend the Constitution, we do not have only the Constitutional Court, but we have three forms of power, legislative, executive and judicial. Each of these three is responsible for defending the Constitution. I think we must also defend the minority for this reason, as it is enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you very much. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u262	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u263	Thank you, Madam President. I will vote against this proposal because it brutally interferes with the democratic system we put in Slovenia 25 years ago. I will vote against the fact that this proposal beats the will of the Slovenian demos, this is a free Slovenian people with political rights. I will vote against this because Parliament is not the last instance to decide on people. I am against it because the will of the people is stronger than the parliamentary will of the Mauritian coalition. I am against this because the redefinition of the Slovenian family has greatly upset our citizens. Of course, it is not a referendum on laws that abolish unconstitutionality, but this novel of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is unconstitutional itself and is not in accordance with international acts that protect children's rights. Novela breaks at least Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states in paragraph 3 that the State protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection. I'm against it because there's no motherly love for a child living between two gays, and I'm against it because there's no fatherly love for a child growing up between two lesbians. I'm against it because the Children's Coalition has collected over 80,000 signatures in record hours and in record four days more than 44,000 certified signatures. I'm against it because I respect my children's rights because I'm on the child's side. And I am against it because in all, at least the largest religious communities in Slovenia, they respect their family or the family of the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u264	Another round of explanations. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u265	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished President of the National Assembly, Representative of the Government! I will vote against the proposed decision myself. Indeed, it is unacceptable for us, the National Assembly, to prevent citizens and citizens from deciding on such an important social issue. That this issue is very important also shows the fact that within only three days a sufficient number of signatures were collected, 40,000 certified signatures on the administrative unit. Of course, you'll say you're protecting human rights under pretext, but look, the facts show otherwise. The facts show otherwise. In fact, international legal acts say that same-sex marriage is not a human right. Other conventions also speak for this purpose. Last but not least, the Constitutional Court has once granted virtually the same referendum. And a number of constitutional lawyers, including through means of public information, argued that the new 90th Article of the Constitution does not say that a referendum should be stopped in this case. And I'm afraid you'll be re-respected colleagues and colleagues before the trial when the Constitutional Court puts you on one big question. That is why I will, once again, vote against the proposed decision, because it is right for people to answer such an important social question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u266	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u267	Thank you for your word, chairman. I was there today for an exception to the silence. I've listened to a lot of stereotypes. I was 11 years old in May 1980. That's when one vocal-instrumental group released a single record. On A page you had a song Help, help, on B page you had a song Darilo. You've had an extra song on A's page. I don't see you with the girls. This vocal-instrumental group was VIS Idols. I'm 46 now. In short, after 35 years, it is high time that what started at the time in the Yugoslav space — that was for some of the first so-called gay piece — be arranged in the way that colleague Vatovec said. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour. Thank you for your word and a lovely evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-26-SDZ7-Izredna-11.ana.u268	We are moving on to a full decision on the complementary proposal for a decision. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 21. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
