ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič and Mag. Matthew Tonin. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, Mag. Mr Andrejo Poje, representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia as representative of the 5 thousand elections and voters on the 15th day, Minister of the Interior Mag. Ms Vesno Györkös Žnidar on 24th agenda item, representative of the Council of Justice and representative of the Office of the President of the Republic on 25th agenda item and representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 11 September 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I therefore propose that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 11th meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving on to 25. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for decisions on the election of judges of the Court of Justice in Celje, the Labour Court in Koper, the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on labour disputes, the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana for decision in social disputes and the Labour Court in Maribor. Proposals for Decisions were submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Court of Justice in Celje. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Cyprus. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on working disputes. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on social disputes. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. At the vote, I give the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I understand that the decision has been taken. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written applications for 46 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order for the question to be asked shall be set in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and members of the opposition will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Mrs Alenka Smrkolj, Minister responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion from 16:00 onward, and mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior, on account of the current situation in relation to the migration problem and the outstanding meetings and discussions related to it. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. The first question will be asked by Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much and very much. I will ask the Prime Minister the question of the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017, which is now in preparation. In particular, I will be interested in the continuation of government austerity policies, the revenue side of the budget and development. As a key achievement in the past year, the government has attributed the return of stability to the country. Both political and economic on the one hand. However, if we look at the deeper causes of some stabilisation in the past year, we will see that they are mainly due to improved economic indicators. However, improved economic indicators are not the result of government policies. In 2014, the majority of analysts agreed that economic growth was improved due, for the first time, to increased exports, secondly, local elections and thirdly, due to the concentration of cohesion funds this year. In 2015, favourable economic trends continue mainly due to exports and exports depend on demand in foreign markets, not on government policies in this country. On the other hand, there are alarming forecasts for 2016 and 2017. Analysts point out that demand in Slovenia is still weak and the government aims to cut its budget by 464 million in 2016 compared to last year and 664 million in 2016. Such an experiment will have a similar dimension as the Janša government experiment in 2012, the then loud evil of the ZUJF. Even then, Slovenia had economic growth in 2010 and 2011 and the ZUJF and the 400 million cuts have withdrawn the country into a second recession, from which we have not dug for two more years. Here comes my first question: Why, Prime Minister, do you expect it to be different this time? Are you taking us to the third recession through the announced austerity measures? Second question. The consequences of the economic crisis, according to the two recessions we have suffered so far and the austerity measures, have felt the poorest. According to 2007 we currently have 63,000 more poor people, as you know, there are almost 300,000 people below the poverty line, and humanitarian organisations are reporting that 600,000 have applied for humanitarian aid last year. In this sense, I am interested in: Will the requirements for fiscal consolidation be undermined this time by the existence of a minimum of the most endangered inhabitants of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u3	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, let me make it very clear that the austerity measures or the work of this government are by no means taking this country to any third recession. I also believe that some of your findings, which you have made when you have asked the question in part or in whole, are wrong. So let's say I can't agree that improving economic indicators is just the result of a good, even excellent management of our entrepreneurs. We can certainly be very grateful to them, but you must understand that things are also connected in the country and that the country's actions may or may not promote a good, healthy business environment, exports and so on. This government is reliably continuing those trends that promote a good business environment and add a lot of new ones, especially in the coming years, which will further destabilize the economy of both administrative barriers and other things that are still on the way to further flourish. Let me say that the budgetary proposals for 2016 and 2017 adopted yesterday by the Government allow, due to significantly higher projected revenues, for the sake of reducing the deficit, the revenue of the major majority of ministries to be increased. In doing so, both budgets follow the logic that higher economic growth, reflected in higher revenues, is partly used to reduce deficits and partly to increase expenditure and promote growth. The adoption of the fiscal plan gives ministries much more opportunities to design and implement good policies. In doing so, let me mention just a few priorities in funding over the next two years. Among other things, the Government's priorities are human security and property, which is understandable in the current situation when we face this great migration, refugee problem and all that. We will also provide security and property in other areas, including flood security. A great deal of emphasis will be placed on health to be shorter waiting lines, so that doctors, nurses and others can work better to make health care more accessible to patients and that it can develop further in order to be of quality. We pay great attention to justice because we are aware that the issue of justice, the issue of the rule of law, is of paramount importance. Here we want to continue to improve positive trends, which is what we are already doing and, of course, to eliminate negative practices. We'll pay a lot of attention to the infrastructure. Of course, this involves many things, railway renovations, road renovations, certain roads, and so on. We're also talking about the construction of a hydro power plant in the middle of Savi and so on. And education, not least, is also an important area when it comes to development. It has already turned out that the current government policy, and this will also be the case in the future, brings employment. Employment is increasing. Unemployment is falling. And especially, what makes us happy is that the employment of young people is increasing. Let me put it this way, the government is maintaining some austerity measures, but it is also stressing development. It allocates funds for new policies. The government isn't squeezing, it's not stifling this development, it's releasing it. And this is its core task, especially in the next two years. On the one hand, we will not be wasteful, we will be a good master. On the other hand, we will encourage all those development projects that are particularly important for employment, which have multiple effects and also bring, as we know, good ratings, which have increased significantly over the past year, some new impetus and reputation, which also allow them to come to a greater extent to our country of investment. Both budgets are also development-oriented and, in particular, in this respect, the government will seek to build new policies, as I said, while ensuring good governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u5	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you. What I'm worried about is next. As we look at the development concept set out by this government, we see that it is mainly based on the fact that economic growth will drive exports. If we look around the world, we see that exports are all as stable or secure as we see very negative trends everywhere. The BRICS countries, which have driven the world economy over the past decade, have been in trouble. We have recently read about the financial market fractures in China, the cooling of this country. Russia and now Brazil are in recession. There is growing talk in the West about the fact that the policies of the central banks have inflated the financial balloons and that the question is when they will, not whether they will, but when they will be doing it again. The US Central Bank, which has ensured global liquidity with low interest rates almost zero, is now seriously discussing how to raise them. In short, the whole situation in the world is such that exports are very unstable. And this export or export demand is essentially the policy that this government is betting on, but at the same time the domestic demand, which is already weak, is shrinking. Therefore, the criticism of the United Left is that such a policy is risky because if we start to cool down exports while the government is violating domestic demand, this cannot lead to a new contraction of the economy and to serious restrictions on all those policies and programmes that you listed in the previous reply. That's why I'm worried, and I'm asking you: Do you have this thought of what you intend to do if such scenarios occur? What will you do for the poorest inhabitants and residents who have so far been the greatest victims of this crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u7	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you. Of course, the international environment is unstable. The government is well aware of that. Last but not least, in this refugee crisis, as we call it, shows how important it is to ensure the security and management of such a crisis, so that the system can work, despite the fact that we are faced with such a large number of migrants, our systems, the economy and others are still functioning smoothly or where the disruption occurs, we are immediately putting an end to it. We cannot influence the world, but we can influence ourselves. And you are right, of course we are active here, we have increasingly active economic diplomacy. We are looking for opportunities and allow an economy with various economic delegations, international contacts and also fiscal and other measures so that exports can take part in the wider region as well as elsewhere in the world. At the same time, we must also provide at home conditions for better management. There are still many challenges here, and the government's plan is to largely remove the administrative obstacles that still have to be overcome. It is further clear that we must continue to provide fiscal consolidation. It is clear that without fiscal consolidation, the state will not move forward. And let me say this, because time does not allow anything else to increase domestic consumption, as well as the perspectives on the latest data are good here. Thus these positive effects are very good indicators for the future. But you're right, that's why this political stability is so important, this predictability that economists will feel safe to think about their work, even their exports and the rest that the other systems will work. And it is the task of the government to therefore maintain stability, to burden the systems where they are burdened, both in the field of public administration and elsewhere, to carry out health reform, so gradually throughout the coming year and later to carry out these key steps that we have set ourselves. I think we've proven that we've already drawn this path, that we're on the right track. Clearly, we will not forget or forget, not now, the most affected layers, the ones with the least income, the smallest pensions. As you know, we have recently made it possible to write off debts, and there are already concrete projects to move forward. Above all, I stress that we are increasing employment, because with work we need citizens to be able to do so, we need to enable them to earn their profits and some dignity. This is, of course, the way we normally do things in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u9	Luka Mesec, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you. I am not satisfied with the Prime Minister's response because I consider it underestimating the seriousness of the situation. Crisis years across Europe have shown that fiscal consolidation is the greatest risk for the sustainability of economic recovery, even in the first years after the crisis, when this economic recovery is still very fragile, while at the same time building on the sector whose future, as I have previously shown with the world situation, is all the more clear. The government is underestimating the value of domestic demand and is overestimating the ability of some administrative measures and economic diplomacy, so that, in fact, only these measures, which are actually scarves, can drive economic growth. If we want to have economic growth, if we want to maintain the good trends that have arisen, if we want to provide jobs for young people, we need to seriously discuss such a development concept, because it is more clear that, obviously, from the seven years of crisis in Europe, governments like ours have learned nothing and are simply risking a new third recession with new policies and measures, so I am calling for a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u11	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2015. Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to ask as a second question to the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr President of the Government, Slovenia is extremely rich in the forest. With over 58% coverage, we are ranked third in the European Union immediately for Sweden and Finland. Currently in Slovenia we have a system of uniform management of agricultural land and state forests, which is financially self-sustaining, although there are reserves in the efficiency of its management. This is a management of at least one billion state-owned assets. The first attempt to establish a state-owned enterprise to the Slovenian National Forests took place in 2014. As a result, in the New Slovenia Group, we requested an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, at which the expert and political public rejected the idea. Today, when we are on the verge of the end of concession contracts for the management of state forests, it is said that the establishment of the Slovenian State Forests company is again planned by law on forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Mr President, you have written into your coalition contract that you will maintain the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia or transform it into a single public company. The planned introduction of the Slovenian State Forests company would, in fact, bypass their own coalition contract, as they would separate forest management from the management of agricultural land. I want to know: How do you comment on the fact that you are moving away from your coalition agreement by setting up a state-owned Slovenian State Forests company and how can you legally establish a company that does not have a business plan and that neither the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will participate in management, as well as the Slovenian State Holding? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u13	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, the government is still aware that forests in Slovenia are one of the largest natural treasures. So far, forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia is based on concessions granted. The concessions were granted in 1996 to economic executive companies from former forest holdings, for a period of 20 years, as undertakings that managed these forests prior to the entry into force of the Forest Act in 1993. The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which does not perform a comprehensive business function of exploiting forests, but grants them concessions, has currently signed 28 such concessions. In addition to the concessionaires who received the concession directly under the law, the Fund awarded 10 additional concessions on the basis of a tender. For most of the forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, concessional relations really end on 30 June 2016. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, on the basis of monitoring the current forest management, further proposed, on the basis of the operation of the Fund and the findings of the audit on the usefulness of forest management prepared by the Court of Auditors and the examination of the solutions in this area in the EU Member States, an amendment to the forest management regime in order to enable the transfer of forests owned by Slovenia to a more stimulating business environment while ensuring, of course, the ecological and social functions of the forest. And now essential. In the Coalition Treaty, we have stated that we will encourage increased forest use as the richest general resource in Slovenia and the recovery of the wood processing industry through the establishment of forest chains. We also wrote that we will encourage increased private forest benefits by promoting the integration of private forest owners. At the same time, we will strive for more efficient management, management and development of the Slovenian Institute for Forests and the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, and – here I stress – this is part of the answer, which is very important – we will do so through the necessary changes in the forest concession system so far and through the possible establishment of a state enterprise. This is reflected in the coalition contract on page 27, paragraph 12. We are therefore following the coalition agreement and, in reviewing best practices in the management of state forests within the European Union, we believe that, within the framework of a state-owned enterprise, we can make the most of the expectations and commitments of the coalition treaty. By setting up a state-owned enterprise, we are not moving away from coalition commitments, but on the contrary, we are actively implementing them. Before the independence of Slovenia, the forestry industry employed about 40,000 people. Today, less than 15,000 people. Many companies in the timber sector are today technologically obsolete, uncompetitive and with low added value to the employee. The situation is therefore poor and two reasons for this are certainly a lack of a country-wide sectoral strategy and an uncertain supply of forest wood varieties for the wood-processing industry. This is what the government is now dealing with effectively. We have set up, as you know, a Directorate for Woodworking Industry, which is actively involved in drafting and planning new legislation. Therefore, your claim regarding the non-cooperation of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology within which this Directorate is established does not support this new legislation. Both ministries, i.e. for agriculture and the economy, cooperate in identifying parameters that directly affect the scope of activities, revenues, costs and the expected business outcome of the company. And a second time. The establishment of a state forestry company will create conditions for the new development of the Slovenian timber chain. The organised sale of forest forest ranges through this newly established company will allow more long-term and predictable supply of forest forest ranges, which will encourage greater domestic and foreign investment in the wood processing industry in Slovenia. In return, investors, both foreign and domestic, should have a clear vision of development, market potential and a long-term production plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u15	Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u16	Dear Mr. President! At the time of your appointment, you have committed yourself to managing state assets through the operation of SDH professionally and in the spirit of a good master. The establishment of a state forest management company in the way you have set it up is completely contrary to the principles of good corporate governance. I cannot help but feel that the Slovenian National Forest is a project of two political parties that would subjugate this great state wealth for their own partial interests. Last but not least, the inclusion of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology would be necessary from the outset also in terms of the relaunching of the forest chain and I think their voice should be more important in this regard. You've probably studied European comparisons, and I'm curious: How are these matters handled elsewhere in this area? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u17	The Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much for the additional question. Let me first say that the founder and only member of this company will be the Republic of Slovenia, which will not be able to share or transfer its business share to another person. Due to the public importance and importance of forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia, we have decided that the tasks and competences of the company assembly shall be exercised by the Government. In doing so, we follow the guidelines set out in the Slovenian State Holding Act. There are still many things I cannot say briefly, so let me just assure you, the other Members and the public, that this project cannot and will not mean will certainly not mean any usurpation of this area by any political party. The goal is to prevent the various usurpations that have obviously dominated this area in Slovenia, because we have seen how this area has stagnated, deteriorated, and in the end we are actually in a bad situation today, we do not know how to exploit our forests, we do not have a developed woodworking industry, we have lost all the potentials we have had in these years. And this government will revive these potentials, and we are already working on it, so certainly we will not overlook what you have rightly mentioned, the spirit of good governance. Of course, all the competent authorities, all the others involved, therefore stakeholders, will have to do exactly what is not yet: to manage well, to ensure the development of the Slovenian woodworking industry, to establish this chain, so that we do not, I stress, as we are now losing irrationally, to distribute this wealth to others, but, in fact, as a country, we will have very little of it. So I guarantee we'll do our best in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u19	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u20	Indeed, I think that there are many other unknowns in this question to the Prime Minister of the Government, who are waking up in the wake of the concession, not least how it will be with the award of concessions to high-level farmers who want to maintain themselves in this way, how it will be done with uninterrupted and denationalisation procedures, where financial resources will be provided to ensure that Slovenian wood comes to the Slovenian sawmills. In short, a lot of questions. I therefore propose, as you said, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u21	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2015. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! I will ask the President of the Government a question regarding the arbitration agreement. Given that the Croatian Parliament withdrew from the arbitration agreement and in view of the government's reaction, which withdrew its representative and appointed a foreigner without consulting Parliament. And then he resigned from the agreement itself and worked on the arbitration panel. And given that we have named a new one again, and this one is not Slovenian again, so we are not defending Slovenian interests, and when we have left the decision to foreigners in history, we have always lost our territory. The support we are supposed to have in the European institutions has first been reduced by some support and is becoming less and less present. So I'm going to ask: What is the assessment of the possibility of continuation of an arbitration agreement by the Government and which European institutions and countries explicitly support the continuation of this agreement? If we do a qualitative analysis of the situation, we see that Croatia is very active in all areas, both in the media, international policy and in other areas, these activities are not visible by Slovenia. I know you're working on quiet diplomacy, but with quiet diplomacy, we can't achieve everything. That's why I'm interested in the following: What are the activities of the Government to protect Slovenian interests? Does the Arbitration Agreement Support Group operate within the ministries or the Government? If such a group exists, are the non-Slovaks, what are the professions and are they chosen not on the basis of political or party affiliation, but on the basis of their careers and their expertise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u23	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I should like to point out that Slovenia, as you know, expects the arbitral tribunal, after the completion of the missing members, to continue its work and issue a verdict. We believe that the court has all the powers and duty to proceed with the proceedings. This is our position, which we repeatedly repeat on every possible occasion when we meet foreign diplomats, statesmen, experts and others. With all its actions so far, Slovenia has sought to protect the integrity, independence and impartiality of the court and, in accordance with Article 10 of the Arbitration Agreement, this is a very important article, maintains all statements which could exacerbate or jeopardise the work of the arbitral tribunal. It should be borne in mind that the Croats have unilaterally and in our view completely deviated from this Agreement on an unjustified and unlawful basis. We do not believe that this derogation is in force. Hence, they are now acting rather robustly, undiplomaticly in their pressure on the world’s or any general public on this matter. Slovenia, however, respects the rules of the game, respects the international agreement to which we are bound together with the Croats, and provides for Article 10, so we must refrain from statements and actions that could exacerbate the dispute or jeopardize the work of the arbitral tribunal. Of course, this does not mean that we are acting against our interests. On the contrary. Our diplomacy is extremely active in this regard and, of course, it informs all stakeholders in the world, in Europe, where it is necessary, what our position is and why we have all the arguments that we can justly defend it. At the same time, in view of the timing of the events when we had a Slovenian arbitrator, there was an unloved complication with an unheard-of eavesdropper affair, we chose to leave the court now to choose the arbitrator to be elected instead of Mr Sekolec. This is precisely because it is in the interest of Slovenia. At the same time, Slovenia, which believes in its argument, establishes or allows it to be established further in such a way as to be completely impartial, independent. And we have done so not voluntarily, but after several consultations with all parliamentary parties, following the envisaged procedures in the government and consulting a number of experts from the types of diplomacy, international public law, also, of course, after consulting our agent and so on. All actions carried out within the framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, governments as such, other ministries in Europe, within the framework of the European Commission, with individual countries when we come in contact, are certainly very intense and they all strive to exercise our interest. In the context of the IHR, the Foreign Ministry will be set up by 1 October 2015 at the latest for the preparation and management of all procedural and substantive matters, and by 1 October 2015 a specific project unit will be set up to carry out all tasks related to the completion of the arbitration procedure and the implementation of the expected verdict. Of course, the project unit has been active so far. Let me add this to the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, agents, all the others involved in this process are constantly connected, and are already more than two years or more, clearly, all the time since this dispute has lasted, in contact with a number of external experts, both Slovenian and foreign experts in international public law, and in particular qualified Slovenian diplomats. The informal ad hoc group of diplomats is also in charge of the area of the arbitration agreement and has been operational since the end of the project unit to prepare a case before the arbitral tribunal, which ceased its operation on 1 August 2015. Let me stress that here we are doing everything we can to defend Slovenia's interest, to represent our views and to believe that the only right way is through arbitration, a path that must lead to a verdict that binds both sides. We do not agree to any unilateral acts which conflict with such a cultured legal, international way of resolving disputes and even threaten to give samples of such practice that can destabilise the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u25	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you. I didn't get the answer to the key questions. I asked you two questions. In view of a brief opinion from the European Commission, I asked which European institutions and which European countries explicitly support us. I didn't get an answer here. Secondly, I asked you, for this group now say that there are some experts, which types of international law or which and which are members of this group. I'm asking in a sublime way, given everything you've said: What is the option if this arbitration agreement is not reached and there is no court action? Do you have a plan B, as they say, I have always learned in my work that you must have at least three variants, not just a plan B, given the international relations that are very complicated? So once again, I'm wondering: Which countries support what experts are in this group and is there a spare option? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u27	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dear Member, it has been repeatedly from the daily newspaper to see which countries support us. In all the materials you receive, as well as in public, we have repeatedly stressed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we are supported by some countries explicitly, such as Germany, Austria, Italy and so on. Some have, of course, chosen a more diplomatic path to support. Of course, there is also silent diplomacy at all levels. As regards the European Commission, directly according to Croatia's forecasts of unilaterally withdrawing from the arbitration agreement, this Commission stressed that a unilateral derogation cannot jeopardise the very existence of an arbitral tribunal. The Commission has also indicated that it sees no alternative to the current arbitration procedure and supports any step towards maintaining the entire arbitration process. But this is a very complicated diplomatic language. Some countries wish to communicate their views more diplomatically in a spirit of neutrality. I must say that it is not in Slovenia's interest, either, that every thing we communicate with foreign diplomats is such or is not in Slovenia's interest to make all this publicly available. But I think that, from what we have communicated publicly with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is clear that some key countries in the European Union understand that the Croatian derogation is a unilateral derogation from the arbitration agreement not only invalid but also harmful, so they support the continuation of the arbitration agreement as well as the European Commission. Surely, however, all democratic countries, which is a united position, want this conflict to be resolved. And since we know that he was not saved before the establishment of this agreement for 18 years after many failed negotiation attempts, I am sure that this is the only way to arrive at the right solution in due course. Of course, the government also has prepared scenarios if this solution did not happen in this light, as we expect. But for now, we believe that it will be possible for the arbitral tribunal to continue its work to take a decision that will bind both parties. Now talking about this, some plan B, would be completely pointless and would weaken our foreign policy and also our position as parties to the dispute. So I think it doesn't make sense to talk about some plan B if we believe that we are right that the court should continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u29	Fourthly, Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer will ask the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Let me first, on behalf of the SMC Group, give you, Slovenian police and civil protection, competent ministries, local communities, NGOs and humanitarian organisations, and above all, to all the good people throughout the country a great deal of thanks for the highly professional, committed, peaceful, dignified and unselfish assistance and support for refugees and migrants on their way on a better tomorrow. We can rightly be proud of the image that we give to people in distress through our demonstrated relationship on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and as an example we send to the international community. We can also be justifiably proud that the functioning of our country and its concern for its citizens are not at risk at this time. However, we cannot avoid the feeling, Mr President, that the Slovenian response to today's greatest civilisation and humanitarian distress in Europe is just one of the possible perspectives. Although facts and verifiable data show that this is a reflection of the actual situation, there are many who see this same reality as torture, oppression, violation of rights, late and inappropriate response. Somehow we have grown accustomed in recent years to seeing reality through very different glasses, even the most desirablely theatrical, and generally impatient, exclusionary, humiliating and reality-like, more or less distant images of the actual state. And in the light of all this, President of the Government, I ask first-hand your assessment of the first year of government action. Various statistics speak for themselves, for the sake of well - established work. On the other hand, many views and comments speak of the fact that the government under your leadership was lucky to have been idle, that you were slow and that you had no developmental programme objectives and visions. Allow me also to ask you, with a view to the integrity of the issue, and also in the light of our country's initial address in the face of refugee issues, and I believe that yesterday's government budget meetings, I am also asking about the priorities and objectives of the second year of the government mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u31	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I am extremely pleased that you have highlighted this unselfish humanitarian, professional, solidarity and security-aware attitude of all national authorities and of all citizens, institutions and NGOs that you have mentioned. Indeed, we must be grateful so to our police, civil protection, to all others, for this moment ensuring that we can do our work smoothly here, that the country can act smoothly, so that it manages this extremely difficult situation, where it is necessary to balance the many conflicting trends, on the one hand be humanitarian, accept refugees in certain procedures, give them food, give them health care and help them with other aspects, provide children with care, older ones, while ensuring security, which is still an important element for the country, including the economy, and that people are not afraid of what will happen to them, so that they can normally go to work and take care of their families. From this very point of view, I would reject the evidence that we are too slow. The essence of our government's action is to insist on matters in a way that balances development. For if you run into one thing, you put out a fire, and forget the rest. This has happened in previous years. And where did we come from? The fact that we've completely disintegrated and broken the system. The system is complete, and we've got it all figured out. On the one hand, over two budget rebalancings, now with the adoption of two very difficult budgets and with a fiscal rule – we know that this was a great project, for which I am grateful to the many in this Chamber that you have supported – and other measures we have put Slovenia back on the world map as a country with good ratings that has some development. Of course, economic growth here was only an additional good element. By consolidating public finances and by continuing this process – and this is one of the issues that we will continue – we insist on this development. At the same time, we will implement all those measures in the coming periods, months and years that are further needed to maintain this economic growth, increase it, make it stable. Increasing employment, especially for young people, is an extremely favourable trend, which needs to be given special attention because it also affects the image of social well-being. By giving jobs, when young people and others can work to take care of themselves and their families to maintain their dignity, that is the most we can do for them. At the same time, we have foreseen a system of social assistance, which we maintain and even upgrade to a certain extent in the future budget period. So this is where we go a step further. We are aware of the instability, as I said before, of the global environment, so we must ensure security. Here we have dedicated some additional resources, as we see how important it is that the police, as well as civil protection and other systems, operate. At the same time, it is very important that we restructure the economy in order to continue this process. Here we will set up a dedicated company with private capital to better manage the poor bank claims of small and medium-sized enterprises. We will consistently implement what we have now adopted in this period of government, the State Investment Management Strategy. This is a key document to define at all our state investments, state assets, businesses and to set criteria. This is now all determined how the state, i.e. SDH as a good operator with some control, will also manage state assets in the background. We need to open up to foreign investment. This is very important for us to attract foreign direct investment, so we are moving away gradually in small steps, but persistently administrative obstacles. We rationalize, optimize public administration. And not by just forgiving workers, but by improving processes. We did what hasn't been done in years. Have we even recorded how many properties the state has? Many were very irrational, I would say abandoned, not used, or paid rent on the other end, but had another opportunity to carry out the activity without rent. There are still a lot of things that I could say that we are regulating public calls so that there will not be so much irrationality or even bad practices here, that I do not say the corruption that has taken place. Health reform is one of the key issues. We're taking very decisive steps. You see what happens in health care. All of this must now be handled patiently but with perseverance. Last but not least, infrastructure, education, all of these are challenges and here we have, as you will see, also now in the coalition agreement and in the priorities of the government a number of measures envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u33	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. The first is Mr Tomaž Lisec to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u34	Dear President, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, nice greetings! By the end of 2013, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads had informed the Chamber of Commerce and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to limit the total authorised mass of vehicles to the fifteen most urgent, so-called bridge facilities. The Directorate wrote: "The above-mentioned bridge facilities are in a state where action by the operator with the predicted bridge load reduction is necessary and estimates that at present 15 buildings need about 30 million." The government took note of this and in 2014, for which there is written evidence, even my question of a letter to your predecessor, Mr Omerzel, almost nothing has been done. A very similar question, as I am asking you today, I have also asked you in January 2013 when you said, "Sorry, I probably won't be able to handle some more optimistic predictions either." Dear Minister, in the first part of this question, I am interested in: What has been done in the ministry, in particular in practice since January of this year, when we have finished our vacations and vacations – as it is said – as a matter of urgency for bridges, bridge crossings – in this area? However, since we are all looking forward to the draft budget for 2016 and 2017, I am also interested in: What are you going to do in 2015 so we don't get ahead of ourselves in the winter? What forecasts can the local communities in particular expect, or what actions can be expected in 2016 and 2017, by those facilities lying there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u35	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, honourable Member, for asking the question. Indeed, this topic is very hot, and it has already been discussed several times in this National Assembly, and I can say that there are also developments in this area in the right direction. In this way, I can say that in 2015 the renovation took place, whether it is ongoing or it is already completed at ten crossing sites. And I would like to write them down: reconstruction of the bridge over Savo in Podnart, reconstruction of the bridge over the Vitovšek stream in Šempas, construction of the bridge over Socka near Skrlin Castle, then reconstruction of the bridge over Gračnica in Lokavac, reconstruction of the bridge over Gračnica in Jurkloštr, intervention of the road by the Trojana viaduct, then replacement construction of the bridge over Hotunjščica, construction of two holidays in a decomposing state on the road at Petrov Brdo, intervention of the reinforcement of the Trojana viaduct and reconstruction of the bridge over Pivka in Prestránek. All these construction works are under way and are or will be completed this year and their value reaches around €4 million and €150,000. Just yesterday, the government also adopted a proposal to cut the budget framework for 2016 and 2017 and, in line with this proposal, we anticipate in 2016 and 2017 activities at 63 bridge facilities, which will be carried out in 2016 at EUR 11 million and EUR 7 million at EUR 300,000 in 2017. Construction works will be carried out in 2016 at 29 facilities and in 2017 at 27 other facilities. On all others, up to the 63 mentioned above, work will be done on the production of project documentation and land purchases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u37	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you, Your Honor, for your very comprehensive information. I hope that these positive trends, which are promising with regard to bridge facilities, will also actually be realized. I wonder, last time you said that in 2016 and 2017, if I remember correctly, construction works will start at 63 buildings and there will be a total of 18 million funds for this. So I want to know: Is this an integral budget or are you hoping for some European funds over the next two years? Then I wonder: What are your experiences with local communities so far, and how do you plan to continue working with them? And the last question: Have you done any analysis at the Ministry and the Agency as to the damage caused by the failure of this urgent work to be done in 2014? What's the economic damage? Do you also have an analysis of whether there have been any traffic accidents involving serious or minor injuries at these facilities? In 2016 and 2017, I wish you to cheer up as many mayors as possible by building or urgently rehabilitating these bridge facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u39	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much for this additional question. As I have already said, this 18 million 11 000 700 and 7 thousand 300 in 2017 will be spent on construction works and on work on project documentation and land acquisition. In total, this will not be all for construction works, but 29 buildings in 2016 and 27 buildings in 2017 will be in the renovation phase, in construction works. The involvement of local communities in all of these, not only bridge renovations, but also in the implementation of all road rehabilitation projects, I must say that it is actually very commendable. Many times, in fact, local communities will step in to help implement these projects by participating in the preparation of project documentation, land acquisition and then by certain co-financing agreements, these activities in the framework of the project will also be calculated and implemented more easily and more quickly. As far as European funding is concerned, I can say that, in the next perspective, we do not actually have the possibility of drawing on European funds for these infrastructure measures on the road network, except in the nuclear corridors. However, we have succeeded in this perspective, which is being concluded this year, to devote some of the resources of this emerging perspective, part of the European funds for the rehabilitation of these bridges, which are currently under way and are being concluded in 2015. As regards the economic damage caused by these traffic restrictions not only on bridges, but also elsewhere, where we have a closed part of our vehicles due to, say, unstable shores and so on, where transport is alternately regulated, and also because of poor road transport, we are assessed at the direction that the annual economic damage is due to congestion, waiting, gas emissions about 80.90 million euros per year. As far as this is concerned with a particular object, I don't have this information here, but we can also serve with some kind of analysis. I also don't have the data right now that any of these prisons would be in any major accident. So much so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u41	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Mr Györkös Žnidar, who is duly absent, and Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you, President. Hello, Minister of Foreign Affairs, I think we can still sort things out, although it would be very good for the Minister of the Interior to be, but that is the situation. Europe has been facing the greatest refugee crisis since the Second World War for some time, as politicians like to call this human disaster. Such determination, when Europe has not been overly interested in the human crisis around the world since World War II, which has been happening all the time and for which the imperialist policy of Europe and other rich countries is to a large extent also to blame, as a rule, by blackmailing and corrupting local policy, imposed such economic measures on the undeveloped and developing countries, which have allowed the exhaustion of all those who have not been able to resist it to lead to an ever-increasing gap between rich and poor, and consequently to the destruction of many countries. The authors of such policies were confident that they would be able to keep poverty within those limits that would not affect the self-satisfaction of the rich. But the human misery they cause did not care if it was only carefully limited. At least a little thought has long been clear that the exhaustion of poorer countries will sooner or later run out of borders. The double criteria of a developed Europe can be seen after the United Nations, which has left the United Nations selectively, instead of the iron curtain that it has criticised throughout its existence, has soon set up a glass curtain. She left the capital in the direction of the poor against the rich, not the people. And those countries that did not submit to these rich world dictatorships soon experienced a lesson in democracy in the form of military intervention and the destruction of countries. Don't keep talking. Slovenia, as a wealthier part of the world, certainly contributed, at least as a signatory to the Vile Declaration, which led to an attack on Iraq and later to other countries. And we feel the results now in Europe. I therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Will Slovenia and when will it take its share of the blame for millions of people losing their homes, not to talk about their lives? Will Slovenia propose to other EU countries to do the same? On the basis of this knowledge, will we change our policies to refugees and help them not as something we cannot escape, but as part of taking the blame? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u43	Mr. Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Member of Parliament, for the question. Nice greeting on my part, too! Well, I'm not entirely sure that we're going to settle this issue, as you mentioned in the introduction, because it's a global issue. I agree that the very gap between the poor and the rich is causing certain crises around the world. I do not think it is appropriate to say that Slovenia is to blame for this situation, but I think it would be excessive. If we look at the situation in Syria, we can see that there was a question of the massive violations of human rights by the regime led by Bashar al-Assad, that it caused the internal crisis, but at the same time the world did not find any political solution. We know that no resolution has been adopted within the Security Council to prevent such mass violations. We also know that the Geneva talks in which they took part did not produce any results. We also know that the problem of the unanimity of the opposition is in Syria. So it's not so much a learning class, it's just that as a developed civilised world we can't look at dictators who are mass violators of human rights who, for example, use chemical weapons in conflicts, we know what was going on in Syria. I therefore think that there is an overestimation here that Slovenia is responsible for such a situation. As part of our foreign policy, we always stress peaceful policies, respect for human rights. However, I must say that the great challenge at this point is certainly what is happening because of the crisis hotspots, not only in Syria, not only in Iraq, we know that we have similar developments in Afghanistan, that I am not talking about Africa and Boko Haram, who is also a mass violator of human rights. So I must say that the Organization of the United Nations and also the international community are facing a major challenge. For Slovenia, this moment is the greatest challenge to enable these refugees, who come in particular from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, to allow them a decent reception, to properly set them up, and not to prevent them from their path, because the target country is not Slovenia, but some other countries such as Germany, Great Britain, Scandinavia. I'm sure this problem won't solve overnight, especially if we look at numbers in Syria, Iraq. In Syria, 7.6 million people are displaced within Syria, and if the Islamic State or DAESH expands, this means additional pressure against Turkey, Greece and the Balkan route towards Hungary and Slovenia. That is why I have pointed out to the Council of Foreign Ministers that this is a European problem. I would like to say that some ministers of this migration problem, which is currently happening to us in Europe, do not consider it a European problem. However, after the long debate we had in the Council, the view was finally adopted that this migration crisis was a European problem. There I pointed out that the countries that we are transiting, including Slovenia, will find it very difficult to withstand this burden alone, especially when we are talking about financial consequences. That is why I have also proposed that a specific fund should be set up to finance all these problems faced by transit countries. But I'll just say a little more further if you fill in the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u45	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you. Minister, I didn't say Slovenia was guilty, but Slovenia is an accomplice, exactly. Let him take his share of the blame. The claims that Europe and America and NATO have forwarded to Syria and other countries for the protection of human rights are, of course, hypocrisy. There we have countries that are supported by the West, Saudi Arabia, where they are publicly cutting their hands and so on, and no one is shivering and saying that we will protect these human rights, but they are all supporting Saudi Arabia. Afghanistan, we know how it started in Afghanistan, with American and Western support for radical Islamist forces until they turned around because of the Soviet Union at the time, and the Americans, when they bombed Afghanistan, had serious problems because their former allies had stingers and other anti-aircraft weapons and so on. This hypocrisy has brought those poor crowds to the radical. But there's something else I'd like to say when you said free passage. Yesterday evening or tonight, at 1:00 p.m., I think there was a scandal at the border, where police have deepened 12 volunteers who have previously helped refugees on the Croatian side. In Slovenia, they left cars behind, went across after they returned, and were held up by police officers at night. After two hours, they were each swallowed separately for 400 euros because they stayed in an area where they were not allowed to stay. Interestingly, in this human tragedy, the police are interested in boundaries and three steps across the border, and especially in punishing people who are still concerned with humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u47	Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I must say that it is difficult for me to answer on behalf of the Minister of the Interior, but since I am the head of coordination on migration issues, I can only say that we will check this case, I do not rule out that such an event could have taken place, but I still assess if this incident has occurred that it is a minor event, given the challenges the police face. We can see what was happening at the Macedonian-Greek border, we can see what is happening at other borders, and I think the police here are doing the right thing to show their professionalism, but of course there can be such events. I'll pass it on to the Minister of the Interior to check on what actually happened. However, as far as Slovenia is concerned, I must say that I do not agree with this. Slovenia is leading a peaceful friendly policy, leading a policy of respect for human rights, so that I think it would be very unfair to take some responsibility from Slovenia in these matters when it comes to global crises. We don't take those responsibilities for the situation in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan. I can also say that the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Afghanistan was not military cooperation, but was cooperation in support of peace. I visited myself when I was Minister of Defense, Afghanistan. I must say that the people there were very grateful to the Slovenian Army, which helped logistically, helped to prepare places to teach children and so on. So I think that such an assessment that Slovenia is hiding for such events around the world would be excessive and that this would not be correct. However, I agree with some of your statements, particularly when it comes to these differences between the poor and the rich, when it comes to fighting for natural resources of water, oil and so on, including the influence of some multinationals, who, in particular, want to exercise their capital interests in the underdeveloped areas. Unfortunately, this is happening, and I agree with you. But I don't see the role of Slovenia here. We always, when we work together, want to cooperate in terms of protecting the population.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u49	Matjaž Hanžek you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Minister, we probably won't agree here, but with Slovenia's guilt it's all the same, everyone's fault is that piece, really that we're small in the world, but already the signature of the Vile Declaration was a sign that Slovenia supports the attack on Iraq, which was completely fabricated, we know how. And we're going to regret what I have to do. The Home Secretary isn't here. I agree with you that the police may have done the right thing, but I'm sure the police have been instructed by the policy to act more harshly than usual if someone walks across the border. Above all, this is an ethical issue. Someone who helps refugees is being punished for this act. Here Slovenian politics has shown what you really think about that humanity, ethics, humanity and so on. The refugees had been on the border for a long time and could not get across because our country, as well as others, was opening the door. They were punished under the State Border Control Act because they were moving in the border crossing area. Interestingly, this becomes such a horrifying act when someone walks in a border crossing area, that he must be punished with 400 euros. And that's what we should be talking about at the next session. In addition, I think that it is necessary to clarify international relations with Slovenian not only consciousness, to accurately support the wishes of others, contrary to Slovenian interests, that I do not often talk about extremely formalistic reading of laws, as was the case in this night, but not in terms of the open border "come to us" which we have listened to. Whoever comes to help them is being punished. Do you think others will want to or hope to talk? This means discussing two things, that part of the guilt that Slovenia is also carrying, and the humane treatment of refugees and those who help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u51	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2015. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, the other two ministers present, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! A well-known fact is that in Slovenia we have over-taxed work and under-average capital. We can understand from the media that, in addition to tax reform, changes are also being made in the area of the allocation of profits to workers. In an interview for the evening, the distinguished minister said weeks ago that you wanted to make it possible to reward the employees without further burdening the employers. So in marketing jargon, we could say that we've reached a win-win situation. You have announced the payment of the profit prize without payment of the income. Nevertheless, from your words, the state budget will not be damaged, as we will get even more because this money will be spent and more value added tax will be paid through consumption. I am pleased that you have received support from already large companies and chambers. I'm interested in the following: How far are you from the law that provides for the reward of profit workers? How far are you with the preparation of the novel Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit. And the second question: When will the law come on the parliamentary bench or in the legislative procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u53	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u54	President, Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. I'm gonna start a little wider. Slovenia lives as far as possible from the economy. Beyond this, it is necessary to know that three quarters of this economic growth, which we have been talking about recently, has been largely created by exporters, by exporting companies, although it is also necessary to say here that we are only returning and we are barely at the 2008 level. So this economic growth means only that we have stopped the fall and that we are on the way up, but that allows us to undertake serious structural reforms. On the inside, we are assessing that three issues affecting the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy need to be addressed most. These are administrative obstacles, labour costs – this is the part that concerns the country and concerns this issue – and flexible labour legislation. This law, the law on the remuneration of workers' profits, is part of a tax reform that must address, inter alia, labour costs. We note that we are competitive in the lower pay grade and that we have problems in the higher classes. On the inside, our ministry deals with the issue of this law, which is most prepared, coordination with the Ministry of Finance is in the final stage. The content of this law will allow employers or entrepreneurs, if they have a profit, to make this profit at the conclusion of their congregation, in a certain part to reward successful workers through a system of remuneration, with guards to prevent them from abusing the existing twelve wages for this matter, and in a way that more successful workers will receive a greater part of this reward. It is a proposal for a law that is in its final stage and we intend to bring it to the National Assembly by the end of the year. I believe you'll accept it at the beginning of next year. It must also be said that this is, as I have already said many times, a reward under more favourable conditions, it is said, for the exemption of contributions and for the half-payment of income. This is one small lever or a pebble in the system of awarding successful workers, which will allow companies to do so in a more rational, cheaper way, and also have an impact on the ability to keep and reward a successful worker there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u55	Mrs Andreja Potočnik, you have the floor to request a reply from the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počvalska.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask just two additional questions. This means that this division of profits is only for successful workers and not for everyone, whether I understood it correctly. Besides, I'm wondering: Can the company or company then decide not to share this profit if it needs it for future development of the company? So if he's got a profit, then he doesn't have to share it. Thanks for the answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u57	Mr. Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u58	This law, in any final form after its alignment with the Ministry of Finance, will be based and based on two principles of volunteering. So, the decision of the share firm if there's profit, but it's their free will. The distribution of rewards will also be in their hands according to the system they will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u59	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister Dr. Marble! The issue is topical and relates to the refugee crisis or refugee crisis or whatever we call it. Each such crisis has a humanitarian and human aspect in particular; such a crisis must also be seen from this point of view, but in the end it usually ends in finances. For this reason, you have also discussed in Luxembourg, within the framework of the European Commission or members of the euro, what costs such a crisis actually entails. At that time you stated that the numbers are extremely high, which is worrying, and you said that you would also take this into account in the 2016 and 2017 budget. The budget is now somehow adopted by the government and, on the other hand, we are in the middle of this crisis and the costs are actually coming. That's why I want to know: What costs arise with regard to refugees and those who will only be here for a few days, but also with those who will integrate? We know that Europe is supposed to integrate 120 000 refugees or refugees. I am interested in both the direct costs of refugees and the indirect costs, especially if they are integrated, here I am also thinking of additional costs in relation to education, health care, social services and so on. Will this be known in terms of the budgetary deficit or in the borrowing of the State? Will this result in exceptional circumstances, which means that the fiscal rule will not be in force but will be in force in other frameworks? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u61	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u62	Dear Member, Mr Andrej Shircelj! In fact, this is now a very topical issue, I agree. According to currently known information, the first cost assessment of the so-called refugee crisis for this year is estimated at around EUR 5.8 million for Slovenia. Friday, 18. This year, with the Regulation on the completion of the implementation of state and municipal budgets for 2015, I stopped the commitment to direct budgetary users. Accordingly, the Ministry of Finance foresees that, this year, funding for the financing of refugees will be required from the State budget to be made available through redeployments for purposes where the funds have not been fully spent. We also expect to receive additional funds from the EU. The government has also taken into account the refugee issue when preparing the budget for the next two years and hopes to support the National Assembly in this context. With regard to the question of the costs of the so-called refugee crisis in other EU countries, I would stress that only preliminary and informal cost assessments in the EU have been exchanged at the informal meeting of the financial ministers in Luxembourg, and that the financial ministers at this meeting spoke about this outside of the points, it is said that this point was not included at ECOFIN. We have asked the European Commission to draw up a formal document assessing these costs on the basis of the experience of individual countries. For the first costs, the State budget will provide funds by reallocation. We are not planning an additional charge for this purpose for this year, nor are we planning a budget rebalancing. There are also intensive discussions on the possibility of using EU funds for this purpose either through specific mechanisms or through the adaptation of spending rules to the old financial perspective. In view of spontaneous migration, a rough estimate of the possible costs or financial consequences of increased migration flows can only be prepared in the coming days for consideration at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A more realistic assessment of the financial implications will be possible only when the number of asylum seekers known, their retention time in the country is known and other relevant data known. According to experience from abroad, all the costs associated with this can be per day, depending on the scale, but also up to a million euros. With regard to exceptional circumstances, if the number of these refugees were very large and went beyond some of the limits that could be covered within the EU or those funds that we are now earmarking for this refugee crisis, then exceptional circumstances would arise in accordance with the fiscal rule. In the event of exceptional circumstances, two conditions must be met. First, it is independent that these expenses happen independently or without the State being able to do anything about it, as in the case of natural disasters. Secondly, this amount of expenditure is very high. If this level of expenditure was very high, a percentage of GDP would be set. At that time, even if the funds were not still sufficiently high from the EU, there would be exceptional circumstances and debt could also be increased. But today it is very difficult to predict what the extent of this influx of refugees in Slovenia will be. Maybe I'll just add an indicative cost estimate. To deal with the care of asylum seekers, I would say about 10,000 euros per person per year is the first cost assessment. Similarly, it is slightly lower, it is even slightly more than 10,000, but it is similar to the treatment and care of foreigners under the authority of the police. So I'd say, in the grave, you could say 10,000 refugees who were with us would be about 100 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u63	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer. I am interested, but you also mentioned the European funds to finance this part of the budget. However, it was mentioned, at least in public, also by the European Investment Bank, which is supposed to provide more favourable loans. Of course, any loan must be repaid. Here were meant loans for the construction of an infrastructure linked to these refugees. I want to know: Is that what you're counting on? And, of course, at such numbers that 10,000 euros can come to the refugee per year, it's actually a relatively large cost. I believe the state will not be in charge of these purposes. The State is always responsible for general purposes, more or less for general purposes, and then this money is distributed for various purposes. At the time of the debt, it is not even specified why this money should be spent. I'm still interested in your assessment: Is that why public debt can be increased?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u65	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much. If this influx of refugees were disproportionately large, then there would be exceptional circumstances and in fact government debt could be increased because the deficit would be higher than budgeted. But it is very difficult to assess today what the actual influx of these refugees will be like in Slovenia. As we know, for now, and this is widely known, according to my information from Friday until now, only one has applied for asylum; everyone else has not even wanted to stay in Slovenia when asked. Of course, this is a hypothetical question for the time being, but if it comes to closing this flow of migrants to Austria and beyond to Germany and Scandinavian countries and leaving a certain number in Slovenia, this question is relevant. And then this will also affect the budget. Our key activity is currently focused on the European institutions. Wednesday, this is said to be the day after tomorrow, the European Council, where this issue will also definitely be addressed, including the financing of burdens between EU countries, not only in terms of quotas, but also in terms of the financial burdens of individual countries. We have already agreed at this meeting of finance ministers that at the next ECOFINA meeting we will also address this issue, and we will order the European Commission to come up with certain solutions. We are counting on some solidarity, but of course we know that this is always only part of the cost, and part of it falls to the country, and if these are excessive, we will not be able to neutralize it by lowering other costs in Slovenia if this goes to hundreds of millions of euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u67	Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u68	Mr President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We know that the Ljubljana–Skofljica–Ribnica–Kočevje road is extremely burdened, that a large number of people drive daily to work in Ljubljana and the surrounding areas, that we did not build the bypass in Škofljica, which was planned, and that is why there are daily traffic jams in the corners, people are looking for all kinds of other roads, connections to come to Ljubljana to work or to school. They say that daily there are about a thousand or more migrants on this road, while at the same time we have a railway line from Ljubljana-Ribnica-Kočevje, which was built in 1893, is to be built for two years, and has played a very important role in transporting people, cargo in the past, until construction or the expansion of cars. As a result, all traffic or most traffic has been diverted to roads. This railway line is not now complete. Between 2008 and 2013, it was renovated to Ribnica, 13 kilometres to Kočevje, the work was not continued, and so it ran out of about €40 million for this railway route to work again. Last week, Nova Slovenija was on a regional visit to this area and I was able to see for myself this issue. I'll tell you about it later. Mayors also point out that you promised them a regional visit to provide funds in the 2016 and 2017 budget. I'm asking you: Will you be able to secure this money for the renewal of this railway line, because I think this is absolutely necessary? We know that better transport connections improve employment opportunities; the region is developing faster. Given that the road connection is so heavy, I think it is imperative that we establish this railway line as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u69	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ambassador Ludmila Novak, I thank you for this question. Indeed, on the occasion of a regional visit, I met with the mayors there myself, and everyone in turn stressed the importance of re-establishing this railway connection, which is also important for solving the entire transport problem that we are encountering when we link this region to central Slovenia. This problem, of course, culminates in daily congestions on the Skull itself. At the time of this visit, I stated that the completion of this project was one of the priorities of our ministry and in line with this, we then reserved approximately EUR 22 million for the completion of the construction works on this project, which now covers only the renovation of the remaining 13 kilometres, including the reconstruction of the Kočev Station itself, through the arrangement of the Stara Cerkev Station and the construction of platforms with an approach at Dobrepolje Station and the arrangements for loading mills in Dobrepolje, Ribnica and Kočev. In addition, we have foreseen EUR 10.5 million for the replacement and modernisation of signalling and telecommunications facilities across the entire section of this line, allowing for the introduction of regular passenger transport to Kočev. For both of these activities, i.e. for these construction works and the renewal of these signalling devices, the tender documentation for the selection of the operator is now being prepared. On the basis of the tenders received, we will determine how much of these resources will actually be needed. As we say, we provided 22 plus 10.5, although the investment estimate was 40 million. In accordance with these reserved funds for 2016 and 2017, we estimate that we will be able to implement and complete the project if any additional resources are needed, and then we will ensure this either by means of a rebalancing in 2017 or by means of the 2018 budget. But as we say, we expect to have this railway connection established in 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u71	Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to request that the question be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u72	You certainly have better calculations than I do, and I hope that this money is enough or you will get new money. Why was it so urgent for me to ask you this question? In fact, not only will the line be completely renovated or renovated to Kočevje, but it must also be safe and fast enough to be economical or to make sense for people to travel by train. If this train is now transporting 60 kilometers in an hour and 20 minutes, then I don't know if it will be very attractive for people to travel so long by train, if they can be almost by car in Ljubljana in half that time. Of course not in traffic spikes. As I said, we were on a regional visit and we reached a railway crossing where we stopped in a column, waited for about 5 minutes, the prisons were down, there was a red light, in 5 minutes the prisoners were still down, and the vehicles on the opposite side, about ten vehicles were rolled past the prisons, crossed the railway line, and we were just horrified about what was going to happen. I don't know if he's driven a train before or why it's happening. Therefore, I think it is absolutely necessary that it is safe, that it is economical, that it is fast enough and that such things do not happen, so this is an urgent matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u73	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Not to hold me completely to the point, but if I remember correctly, it is estimated by experts that this travel time will be expected to be from Kočev to Ljubljana, which means that the central station will be reduced to about twenty minutes, so that they can arrive at the railway station in Ljubljana in about one hour. However, as regards this long-term closure of prisons, this will also be resolved with these new signalling devices, as this will then be managed more directly. However, it is best not to hear it or see it because it is an extraordinary exposure to the danger and risk of their own lives. So I'm actually horrified. As it is said, these times of released prisoners will also be reduced by these modern signalling devices.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u75	Mrs Ljudmila Novak, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u76	Yes, I think a broader debate on this subject would be needed. Last but not least, in your previous reply, you said that the economy lost about 80 to 90 million a year due to congestion. And there's a similar problem on other routes. We are talking mostly about the construction of the second track, and on the other hand, we know how many stops are on the Styrian highway, accidents are happening daily, and the road is closed for a few hours. At the same time, we have the railway line again, which, not to say how long the train is driving there, is as long as I used to be when I was studying in Ljubljana, and I was driving along this track. Nothing has improved, while the road has improved. At the same time, we know that there are actually many congestions here, remodeling the highway and so on. This topic is also relevant for other links. But we know how important infrastructure is. After the construction of the motorway from Maribor to Murska Sobota or to Lendava, we know what this means for that region. These border regions of ours are all the more dependent on good infrastructure. And last but not least, with regard to air, rail lines are certainly very suitable. I think we should focus on this particular item on the agenda. I therefore propose a special debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u77	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2015. Mr Benedict Kopmayer, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health Maria Mileyka Kolar Celarc a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary! The Council of the Carinthia Region and the inhabitants of Koroška strongly oppose the proposal for a modified gravitational area of the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec. This is based on the above-mentioned methodology whereby the Municipality of Radlje ob Drava joins the Emergency Centre of Maribor and the Municipality of Velenje with the Emergency Centre of Celje, although both municipalities belong to the gravity area where the General Hospital of Slovenj Gradec is active. We find that such an action by the Ministry means the destruction of the region of Koroška as a whole, which we cannot agree on at all. The Carinthian region represents geographical unity, for which the integration of public services is essential. If I may say, for example, that in the event of the last natural disasters, the Radja road along Dravi-Maribor was closed. Also such unilateral contraction of the gravitational area General Hospital Slovenj Gradec prevents the implementation of the basic health activity for which it is registered and established. And I'm asking: What are the arguments that by means of a uniform methodology, the organisation of emergency centres in the Republic of Slovenia from August 2015 changes the gravity area of the emergency centres for Koroško, by joining the Municipality of Radlje ob Drava to the Emergency Centre of Maribor and the Municipality of Velje to the Emergency Centre of Celje, although both municipalities belong to a gravitational area where the general hospital of Slovenj Gradec is operated, as defined in Article 1 of the Statute of the General Hospital of Slovenj Gradec? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u79	Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u80	Once again, welcome on my behalf, and thank you for asking. Document Single methodology for the organisation of emergency centres in the Republic of Slovenia, which was endorsed by the Health Council in August this year and was prepared as a starting point for the organisation in the emergency centres, let me stress, as I believe, that this methodology has already been explained in a telephone interview with representatives from our area, that this methodology does not change the gravity area. The very text of this methodology essentially makes this a recommendation for the operation of the emergency centre. Both in Chapter 4. 8. 1. The integration of the emergency centre with the regional emergency outpatients of the primary level indicates that the purpose of the good organisation of the emergency centre network is primarily coordination between emergency centres and the geographically relevant emergency medical services, which are now operating under primary health care and from which patients are sent to the appropriate emergency care centre, where appropriate. It also identifies a very meaningful exchange of personnel, harmonisation of standards, equipment, clinical pathways and communication. In Figure 9, which you mention or at least this picture, which was prepared as only one proposal, it will be exempted if it bothers you or causes you to want to change gravitational areas. However, this was the material that was presented as a proposal to the Health Council. In addition, I should like to say that the actual units of the on-call service continue to remain throughout the transitional period, as they are now. Then let me mention that it says the Law on Patients' Rights that every patient in Slovenia has a free choice to a doctor and performer. And even if it were a methodology, if it were a purpose or a conclusion, it would be contrary to the law. This is by no means true as you stated in the question. Let me add that in fact, the patient's condition is the one that will decide where the doctor will send him to get the best care. We all know that there are certain conditions that require the patient to be posted either in UKC Ljubljana or in UKC Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u81	Mr. Benedict Kopmajer, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. As we recall, a few months ago, in this Chamber, it was ensured that the reorganisation of these emergency centres would not exacerbate access to emergency medical care on the ground. We have now heard how to explain this uniform methodology, yet we fear that you want to implement through the side door exactly what you failed in your first attempt. But I ask you, the question is not just about you, but in general: Is there a plan, a commitment that almost all governments are working on the need to degrade Koroška, to impoverish economically and, of course, to isolate communication? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u83	Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, you have the floor to add to the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u84	I can assure you from this city, and I have repeatedly ensured that this new comprehensive concept of emergency medical care is designed precisely to ensure that all the population in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as perhaps especially for Koroška because of the regional specification, will receive better, quality urgent medical assistance with shorter access times. This is why the emergency centre in Slovenj Gradc was built, so it recently opened and began working oncologically part of UKC Maribor, etc. It's going in the opposite direction, as you expressed fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u85	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We probably all know the situation in the field of road infrastructure in Slovenia. You don't have to be an expert to see the roads fail every day. Thus, for more than 6,000 miles [6,000 km] of state roads, 3,000 miles [3,000 km] would be virtually inadequate and in very poor condition. This is bad for individuals as well as for the economy. This situation is expected to cause some €65 million annually in damage to individuals and some €27 million in damage to the economy. In order to remedy this situation, Dars said that over the next 15 years it would somehow need 250 million euros a year. On the other hand, we also hear calls for the establishment of a so-called infrastructure fund, which would contribute to the reconstruction of 95 % of the roads that are important to the economy over the next six years, and approximately 77 % of the roads that are needed for the economy, if they had such an infrastructure fund, over the next six years. I ask you, especially the Minister of Finance and, of course, the Minister of Infrastructure, who then somehow cares about the implementation of: How is the establishment of this infrastructure fund? We know that Minister Gašperšič said, somewhere in May this year, that next year, that is to say in 2016, financial resources must be provided which will mean that this decline, as we are now witnessing, will be halted. This is said to be 20 bridges in the country we have blocked, another 30 is problematic, not just the Medna Bridge, where I hear there's even been an audit now. The problem will be with European funds. The Directorate says that in the next financial perspective, there is no money for a single project, such as the Bishop's office, and we know that it was 50 million euros and that it was needed. I therefore ask you about further measures, in particular the 2016 budget. How's the infrastructure fund? Second point: What about the introduction of a gas station, which has been quite discussed this year? Do you know any numbers yet? Does it know whether or not it will or will it be, when it will be? How would this possibly affect excise policy? Or are you thinking about any other financial means for this purpose, such as that of Serbs, when they give a certain amount of money for road safety also from the penalties paid by drivers and drivers, which, given that we are likely to go from half to thirds now, could present some kind of problem? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Who's going to answer first? Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u88	Dear Member, Mr. Jean-Mahnič! The government is aware of this problem, for sure. That the government is aware of this problem, at every government meeting, Minister Gasperšič practically reminds us of this problem. In fact, as you yourself have stated, we are in a situation where European funds for this purpose are virtually gone in the next financial perspective, but Slovenia is within fiscal consolidation, where we have to cut the budget. In addition, we have another limitation that we must be aware of, for 2015 and 2016, we have a signed social agreement with the social partners, by which we are limited to not increasing the taxation of the economy. These are the frameworks we're in. At the same time, we are aware mainly of the road network that if we do not provide at least basic investment maintenance, costs will increase enormously in a relatively short time. From this point of view, I must say that the Ministry of Infrastructure has also put forward a proposal to establish an infrastructure fund aimed at providing the necessary funds for investment in transport infrastructure. The proposal is amended accordingly in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and is worthy of any debate. We met with Minister Gasperšič and the experts of the two ministries on this issue last week, in fact, yesterday, and reviewed the proposal in particular with regard to the provision of the necessary resources. We have found that funds can be provided or/and from the existing dedicated revenue of the budget or/or from integral revenue or through the introduction of new assigned duties. I must say that in this draft budget or budget adopted by the Government for 2016 and 2017, integral resources have also been increased, but not to the extent that you have mentioned, because this scale is too large, it is simply necessary to find an additional resource within these various possible solutions. That is why this proposal, which came from Minister Gasperšič and his ministry, which contains a whole range of possible resources, is now being examined. We have added our proposals and, in terms of fiscal consolidation and social agreement, we expect to come up with solutions that will increase investment support in the field of roads in particular. And now I'm wasting my time with Minister Gaspersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Peter Gaspersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you, Ambassador Jean Mahnič, for this issue and Minister Marble for the introductory explanation. I would just add, as Minister Maramor has already pointed out, this proposal, to ensure an adequate level of resources, so we are still negotiating. Let me say that with the current draft budget for investment maintenance in 2016, if I limit myself only to the road network, which is provided about €90 million and around €110 million in 2017. Let me explain what that means. We have collected approximately 150 million dollars a year with the funds so far, and these funds have been allocated to approximately the same extent for roads and railways. With the proposals we discussed yesterday, we will try to increase these additional resources by around €15 million. However, as you have already said in your question, more than half of the network is in poor shape, more specifically, over 70% is in poor or very poor condition, and this is approaching even in some parts 80%. On the basis of the transport development strategy adopted by the Government this July, we are preparing an operational maintenance programme and investment in the road network. Here we now have two options, some minimum scope to actually stop this further decline, requires 100 million annual investments, which is exactly where we are now with these draft budgets. That is to say, we would have stopped the further decline, but we would not have made any improvement. However, if we want to make an improvement, that is to say that the 80% of these are reduced to some 50%, we will have to invest, say, up to 200 million per year only in road networks. It is clear that we will have to provide some additional resources here. This is precisely the purpose of these additional studies to introduce this additional resource, such as a petrol cent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, please, you are requesting a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you for your answer, both ministers. I support Mr Marble in what he said was that no new duties are being imposed and that the economy is not yet being burdened. If I saw it yesterday, about €700 million will still be some of the deficits in the following year, as you have adopted or are planning in 2016, but then it would be possible to redistribute funds in this basket in a different way, because I see that it will also increase by the mass of public sector wages, otherwise by some logic, in order to employ young people. However, now, if I understand you correctly, Mr Minister, 100 million is foreseen, because some time ago, when we also spoke through the questions sent, these roads were categorized by the state in some way into three sets; 150 million were somehow needed to patch holes, the most important, most necessary, if we can say so, then another part of 250 to reconstruct this and 350,330 somewhere for the new projects that are of course necessary. But I'm really interested in the petrol cent, which is, if I understand correctly, whether you're looking only in an integrated budget, that is to say, from an integrated budget, you would put it on this fund. If I understand correctly, I would therefore leave the idea of a petrol cent in such a way that, for as much as this gas cent would be given, we would lower the excise duty, because I am aware that the problem is particularly in the border band, although it would be possible to do so differently, so that this transit would then avoid fuel being fueled in Slovenia. I wish I could talk to you about that gas station.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u94	I'm sorry I didn't answer, but your question was already asked about the gas cent. We have these calculations as to what it would actually mean. As you yourself have already stated, if you have introduced a petrol cent to reduce excise duty, it is the same as if you financed roads from an integral point of view. That's one thing. The second thing, if we added a gas cent, would only be, in fact, because the correlation between quantities and prices is relatively high, it would be known at the moment on the collected excise duties. We have some of these calculations, some of them still work, so there's substitution here and of course it's problematic. But we do have a number of other options that we are now studying. Which combination will eventually be determined, we have already decided on the 2016 budget for dedicated resources. If we agree on specific types of resources that can be earmarked, there will simply be an increase in earmarked resources, so there is no need to change the budget and we will be able to provide additional resources in this way. But the source is a whole species, a whole list. Some are directly linked to the use or damage to the damage or to the road network as such and others to certain charges. What we should then agree with the Economic and Social Council. While certain burdens are increasing, without the Economic and Social Council, the economy, of course, cannot do so because it would violate the social agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Dear Minister, we have recently met with the fact that the Ministry has failed in the call for funds to build a second track, which is, of course, a key investment for successful further control of the port of Koper and, of course, the competitiveness of Slovenia in this area. Then, of course, we also tracked the study prepared by the analysts of the International Transport Forum at the OECD. Finally, it follows from their findings that the construction of the second track should not be economically justified and that it is better to approach the construction of the rear container terminal in Divaca. We have also been able to see a whole range of responses, especially to the professional public, and it has been very clear that if we go in the same way as the OECD proposes, we will return to history at least 50 years ago. That is when this variant was clearly rejected in Slovenia. If you would remain on these findings, Mr. Minister, I ask you: In what way will you strive to implement the strategy for the development of Slovenia as a distribution centre for Europe, with emphasis on Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways? How do you monitor the development of competitive ports in the Adriatic Ministry and how do you assess their activities in the light of the threat to the future development of the port of Koper if freight traffic is diverted? In what way will you try to carry out a project to build a second railway track between Kopro and Divac, especially in the light of the closure of the project's financial structure and successful competition to obtain as much as possible the sum of EU funds for this project? Will you also take into account the safety aspect of the second rail track and the possibility of building it on the embankments in the context of a public audit order on the value of the project and the analysis of their possible rationalisations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you, honourable Member, Mr Janko Weber, for the question raised or more questions raised about the construction of this important second track project. That's how I'd start. With regard to the implementation of the strategy for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, I would say that the Ministry has already prepared a comprehensive strategy for the development of the transport of the Republic of Slovenia, which the government adopted at the end of July this July. At the same time, it instructed the Ministry of Infrastructure to draw up an operational plan to implement this strategy. This strategy has already identified all the problems of the current situation and has also identified bottlenecks for 2030. The strategy also proposes over 100 different measures in different areas, namely transport infrastructure and transport, including public passenger transport, which will achieve these objectives, this is as sustainable and as safe and as ongoing as possible. Both key stakeholders, namely Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper, are represented in this strategy. In the case of Luka Koper, several measures are envisaged concerning, in particular, the development of port infrastructure, notably projects on the first and second piers, such as the extension of the pier, the remodeling, the deepening, both the waterways and the swimming pools themselves, and a large-scale redesign of the back areas, including storage areas, is also envisaged. The Ministry will also provide, inter alia, with relevant European-supported projects to deepen the waterways in Luka Koper alone. As far as railways are concerned, the key focus is also on removing bottlenecks with appropriate upgrades and updates of individual sections of the rail system or subsystems. It is envisaged that measures will ensure that the standards applicable to all European transport networks are met, this is very important. These are the lines that are included in the so-called nuclear network. We have this connection from the Italian border, from Divaca via Ljubljana, the Wall Bridge, Prague and then to Hodoš or Šentilj. In addition, a number of measures have been put in place which provide a good basis for the railway to play a more important role in public passenger transport. We discussed the re-establishment of passenger transport to Kočevje before. We also have a proposal for an operational plan at the Ministry. We are now coordinating this with individual stakeholders. This operational plan will take the basic measures of the strategy. Furthermore, for the necessary activities, it will also set out tasks, a time frame and, of course, identify key institutions and the necessary financial resources to carry out these activities. Both documents, strategy and operational plan thus represent measures and activities to ensure that both economic operators are adequately represented within the meaning of these development priorities. With regard to how we monitor competitiveness, I would say that, in the context of the studies so far, as well as in the framework of this study carried out by the OECD, issues of the scope of current and future transport have been dealt with in very detail. The potential for growth and the necessary organisational and infrastructure measures have been analysed in detail. The port of Koper currently has all the necessary conditions and mechanisms to accelerate the development of port infrastructure, enabling it to compete very successfully on the port services market. Also, the icicle connections with all the updates already made provide freight transport of more than 15 million tonnes per year, which means that these capacities also allow a rapid increase in the transhipment over the next few years while maintaining a high share of freight on the railway, which is now more than 60%. Of course, in our view, it is also the task of the management of the company, which is managed under the auspices of SDH, to implement this strategy in a competitive environment with the organisation of operations and achieve the relevant business results. I would add that the development of neighbouring ports does not directly jeopardise the development of the port of Cyprus, as they are here in the framework of this organisation of NATO, the North Adriatic ports, together trying to compete mainly with the northern ports. Maybe there's something else I can do next.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, supplemental. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thanks again. Yes, of course, I would like the Minister to continue to answer the missing questions that I have asked in the first part. At the same time, I would also like to offer an opportunity for an additional question, including an answer to what is said. Indeed, the fact is that Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways have already achieved exceptional traffic in this period and are far more competitive than any other port in the North Adriatic, not least if we also look at container transport, even compared to other northern ports, ports that are also trying to gain part of their market share within Europe. The fact is that, at this trend in traffic growth in Luka, the first rail track will reach its maximum potential there in 2018. And then how do we proceed? If we do not build a second track, it means that we will become uncompetitive, less competitive, of course, a lot of cargo will be diverted both to the river and to Venice. This means that if we do not acquire funds quickly enough and actually agree on a funding mechanism, so that even in this funding mechanism, which has been mentioned, is particularly exposed, is it realistic to get a private partner to finance a project that you believe can be diverted to neighbouring ports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. If I focus on what we are planning to do at the Ministry, we will ensure the conditions for the realization of the second track, whose financial realization is the one that currently makes it impossible to implement it. And it is precisely this provision of financial resources that is the key reason and the key task that we have to deal with. However, in order to reach the conditions for its construction, we will carry out the following activities at the Ministry. Firstly, we are preparing a public order to verify the estimated value of the project, which will also carry out analyses of possible optimizations and rationalisations of the project, in particular in relation to checking the possibility that the second track will be intended exclusively for freight transport, which would mean that passenger traffic would not be carried out after that track, so that there would be much less security requirements and that there would be some rationalisation and valuations. We estimate that this call will be drawn up in a short time and will also be published within one month, but this will be an international call. The following have been an international call to all promoters of potential private investors. With this call, we want to verify the interest of these private investors in implementing the project with the public-private partnership. Of course, it is crucial that this project is attractive, and how much of the European funds we will be able to obtain. And with the aim of maximising this share, we will explore the possibility of applying with the project for an invitation to tender on which the remaining unused national cohesion envelopes can also be drawn, as foreseen in 2017 and 2018. In these calls, it will theoretically be possible to obtain up to 85% of co-financing, as is the case with these cohesion projects. Otherwise, only 30% of co-financing could be obtained for the second track on the classic open tenders. In short, it is crucial that we try to maximize this European part. This also facilitates a private partner's decision to approach the project. However, it is crucial, of course, that Luke Koper also works as much as possible to increase the overload during the interim period. Therefore, this proposal to establish a rear terminal was also made, since this avoids any risk of bottlenecks due to the existing line. In doing so, we will also examine the possibility of the interest of the latter countries. At the same time, we will also work intensively to obtain building permits, and we estimate that the conditions for this will be met at the beginning of the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you again for your word, chairman. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose a discussion on the Minister's response, because I have already tried to draw attention to a special date, the anniversary, 2018, when the first track will actually be completely occupied and will no longer be able to take on the additional cargo that Port Koper can bring to its port and thus become even more competitive. Waiting for 2018 to get some of the rest of the money on the invitation to tender is definitely too late. By then, everyone else will be so organized that the main traffic can go to other ports. And, finally, Austria is also intensively building its rail network. We are talking, just for comparison, about €1.4 billion, Austria is investing 10 billion for practically half of the less cargo than it will go on the second track, and they find that this is economically justified for them. Looking for a private partner and waiting for the rest of the money is a very serious issue, so I propose that we hold a debate in the National Assembly, particularly on the financial structure or on the resources to be provided to build a second track as soon as possible. Indeed, the fact is that leaving such an important activity as Luka Koper and such as the Slovenian Railways for the development of the Slovenian economy and also for the gross domestic product, just by chance, is an inadequate form of rescue of the second track and, of course, can threaten both economic growth, jobs and, finally, the geostrategic position of Slovenia, which is a great advantage precisely because access to the sea and also access to our railways to Central Europe is the most efficient and affordable. In fact, the transhipment you mentioned in Divaca, which is supposed to solve this deficiency in 2018, would actually mean that the cargo coming from Luka Koper should be reloaded three times. First from the ship to the trucks, then to the terminal and then from the terminal again to the train. In short, we encourage 30% of the service in Luka Koper. And who among those involved in logistics will be using Luke Koper? This is a very serious issue that we should not lose our competitiveness, and I therefore propose that we hold a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, your proposal will be decided on Thursday, 24 September 2015. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. Dear Minister, this time I will not be talking about emergency medical care. We are in Slovenia in the area of palliative care on the tail between European countries, although I must say that this is nothing new for the health sector. Now, while your health coalition agreement states under measures that the introduction of care and palliative care needs to be accelerated, but when I have seen the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2015-2025, I must say that I am a little concerned because this resolution is not in line with the state's palliative care programme. Although this problem of palliative care was already recognised by the State in 2010, it also adopted this state programme of palliative care, but unfortunately this programme, like most other strategies and analyses other than Gorenjska, remained more than just on paper. As I have already said, this palliative network was set up and tested in Gorenjska in accordance with this State Programme, which was adopted in 2010. In relation to this testing, education was conducted for the palliative team at the primary level, which systematically covered all healthcare homes, then three senior citizens' homes and a psychiatric hospital in Begunja. The education included pharmacists for the pharmacy network, social workers for social work centres and, which is very important, companions for spiritual support. This network produced results and 80 patients were treated in Gorenjska in the first year, and 180 patients were included in this programme in the following year. In this area, it is said in the field of palliative care, and the ministry has not done anything in this mandate. That the situation was even more alarming, the situation deteriorated despite the coalition commitment. On this issue, I am interested in: When do you plan to expand the palliative supply network to the rest of Slovenia? Of course, I'm interested in the timeline and the financial resources provided. According to the test model in Gorenjska, I am interested in: How much money has been spent for this purpose from the Treasury?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of Health Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u108	Hello again! Mr President, honourable Member, Mrs Nada Brinovšek. The general agreement provides that an acute hospital treatment is to be carried out after an acute hospital treatment has been completed in the form of extended hospital treatment, health care and palliative care. As you have already mentioned, by 2011, on the basis of the adopted state programme on palliative care, health care providers had to establish independent organisational departments for this provision. Only 70 % of the price of this indirect treatment was financed by contractors which did not establish these standalone units. The extended hospital treatment programme is being implemented today by Sežana Hospital, Murska Sobota General Hospital, Ptuj General Hospital, Brežice General Hospital, and children’s hospital treatment programme, Šentvid Children’s Hospital Center in Stična. It follows that this palliative care and its departments are scattered throughout the Slovenian region and not only as mentioned in the question. In hospitals, the situation is different. I have to say regionally that this supply is less organised in Ljubljana, where it is a condition for proper implementation of the provision of sufficient capacity in the nursing hospital on the Vrazovni trg. Currently 33 beds are provided there from the total predicted 103, of course due to the unfinished rehabilitation of the premises. Therefore, they implement all the missing programme of acute hospital eyebrows in the framework of UKC Ljubljana. The Commission, appointed by the Ministry of Health, has already carried out extraordinary administrative controls in all hospitals in 2011 with a view to reviewing the implementation of this activity. It was found that 9 out of the total 19 hospitals carry out indirect hospital treatment in accordance with standards and professional guidelines, which means that organisational, human and material conditions are already fully regulated. The implementation of this activity shall be transparent and professional and shall be based on the starting points suitable for the development of this activity. In accordance with the above, it is important for hospitals to identify and prepare appropriate programmes for the implementation of this activity or, in the framework of the arrangements, to redistribute the implementation of acute and informal treatment. Let me mention that even in the case of unused financial resources – as we all know that this is being financed and implemented through the Health Insurance Office – the payment of surpluses is used to carry out this activity in those operators who have exceeded the programme. And let me mention that we have fully achieved the short-term objectives of this state programme, so in the preparatory phase of the new Action Programme on palliative care for 2016, which will, of course, further allocate such overall supply across the regions, will, of course, also receive additional funding for education and enlargement. Let me also say that during this period we have educated 300 healthcare professionals who have completed the school of palliative care, received an appropriate diploma, and 57 doctors have received a diploma from the care, the areas of palliative care. Finally, if I may, a look at the Resolution of the National Health Plan 2015-2025, Together for Health. It is not true that matters are not harmonised. It is true that we are preparing a copy to be complemented, but this resolution also identifies activity and mentions four measures to achieve comprehensive care for incurable patients and assistance for the family.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thanks again for saying that. Dear Minister, I have asked you about the entire network of palliative care, where the owners are included, including at all levels, at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. I don't think we should forget here what an important part of palliative care is also the care of dying relatives. And in view of all the events and problems that have taken place with regard to the house hospic, the fact is that it has also offered all the care, and the state has not managed in five years of existence to regulate the status under which this house could be financed, despite your promises, Minister, and Minister of Labour, for health, I must say this, sadly, very sad. Otherwise, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health in May promised to issue in September an invitation to tender for the implementation of the concession, which would, of course, allow for the provision of unhealed care to the sick. There were supposed to be 60 cities, and the call was supposed to be prepared as I said in September. This call is intended to cover several areas in Slovenia, Primorsko, Osrednjeslovenska and Štajersko. In this regard, I am interested in: When will this invitation see the world’s final light? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thanks for the extra question. As you have rightly established, the call for work and for us is in the final stage for 60 cities. This call will, of course, be submitted to all those who wish to carry out this palliative care, of course in accordance with the standards and standards already defined in the national programme for this programme. You need to know that the hospice programme implemented by House hospic has in the past had the opportunity to log in and enter this network, also gets the appropriate financial resources, but unfortunately he did not want to apply at all in one case. In the second case, of course, he did not want to adopt these standards, which apply to the entire network of palliative care for all Slovenes, because the task is to ensure a level playing field and entry, the possibility of all of us receiving palliative care in the last days and hours of our lives. This will be an invitation. Of course, we will see, given that everyone has the opportunity to meet these conditions, to apply for who will then be chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Madam Minister, last week or 9. 9. An urgent meeting of the Health Committee was held on the subject of UKC Ljubljana. Unfortunately, we have not seen you at this meeting to answer as many questions as possible about the ministry. In fact, you found yourself at the beginning of the year, at a time when there were problems at the neurological clinic, that there were some irregularities. You also requested, which was, of course, correct, administrative supervision of the functioning of the UKC Ljubljana neurological clinic. And even before you received the report on this administrative supervision, you yourself found that there were irregularities, and on May 21st you called on both of you to resign because of objective responsibility. This, of course, did not happen, we all know that, and so on 26 May you also in writing called on the President of the Council of UKC Ljubljana to initiate liability procedures within the framework of its powers. During this time, there was also a report, which you yourself presented at the press conference, from the neurological clinic. A report on the operation of cardiac surgery has now appeared or is being submitted, which raised some dust also the appointment of Director Baričič in August instead of the Director of UKC Ljubljana. According to all the reports, as well as other matters, including the Health Committee, it is possible to conclude that in UKC Ljubljana, for certain irregularities and even for the situation itself, as the reports and all those on the Committee have determined, there is a responsible leadership in neurological and child heart surgery and the very top of UKC Ljubljana. We have talked about a culture of fear that is carried out or is present in the UKC that employees who point out irregularities are discredited or leave because they cannot operate under such conditions. I'm interested in what's within your purview: What are you going to do in this public institution in which the government has 6 representatives in the world of the institution to help establish normal communication, that those who are reported as well as KPC reports will know in the children’s heart surgery that Mr. Vrhunec has something like this behind him and is still employed in UKC Ljubljana – do they answer? Who will be responsible for the situation in UKC Ljubljana? Who will answer about the irregularities that are evident from all the reports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Minister Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, Mrs Jelka Godec. It is true, as you have already said, that I have already called very early for UKC leadership to step down because of objective responsibility. This opportunity has been delayed, but it also depends on the moral attitude and responsibility of each individual. We now have these reports completed, both the report on emergency administrative supervision at the neurological clinic and the report on emergency professional supervision prepared by the Medical Chamber or the international expert group. That is why, of course, I have called on the Council of the Institute, as the highest management authority in the UKC, in accordance with our legislation, to take into account the findings of the reports also the subjective responsibility of management. However, in order to clarify, because it is repeatedly misused, why someone is responsible and competent, let me read to you how it is, in addition to the Law on Institutions, which is a statutory law, also the Decree establishing UKC Ljubljana and the statutes define responsibility. The decree states that the Director-General of UKC represents and represents the UKC, organises and manages the work and business of UKC, is responsible for the founder of the business success of UKC, for the balance of business and professional interests and for the legality of business. The UKC Director-General shall propose the basis for the business policy of the UKC development plan. The Executive Director of the UKC shall lead, coordinate and be responsible for the professional activity of the UKC and shall also be responsible for the implementation of balanced professional development and professional integration with other health institutions. The clinic, the clinical institute and the clinical department are headed by a supervisor. He shall be responsible for the operations of the organisational unit, for the professional, educational and research work, for the prudent organisation, for the appropriate professional competence of the staff and for the professional development, in line with economic opportunities and business success. The professional director of the clinic, which consists of several internal organisational units, leads and is responsible for the operation of the clinic and represents the clinic. And the business director of a clinic, which has several internal organisational units or business directors, has several clinics or clinical institutes, organises and manages the operations of a clinic, several clinics or clinical institutes and is responsible for the legality of business and for the business success of the units that run them. It is said that the UKC Board has already called for leadership, according to the new Director, to draw up appropriate proposals and actions related to the responsibility of all the leaders who are, in any event, mentioned or responsible for those reports, in accordance with the conclusions of the two reports at the first meeting of the Council of the Institute, which will be held this month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please make a request to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for this teaching, what the law says, but I've read it myself. Above all, this " corresponds to the founder", the Director-General responds to the founder, employment and so on. And I want to know: Do you still personally insist on giving up the management of the neurological clinic, that is, on what you requested in May? I'm asking for that answer. And then: Do you still trust Mr Baricic in the light of all the above and in view of his very unprofessional behaviour at the Health Committee meeting, and also in view of the fact that, despite all the findings of the past, Mr. Vrhunc continued to work for information technology or security at the time of the Director's appearance? In doing so, I would like to remind you that from the coalition, Mr Justice Minister Klemenčič has made a public statement that Mr Vrhunc would never have been employed in this position, not even in such a professional position. And, once again, I ask for your answer: Are you still insisting on the withdrawal of the management of the neurological clinic, the professional management of UKC Ljubljana? Do you support Mr Baricic in his work and in his staffing? Of course, what will you do at the Ministry to find the responsibility of all those for the neurological and paediatric clinics in Ljubljana? I would really like to ask you for specific answers and not to teach you what someone is responsible for. At the meeting of the Health Committee, we heard, one of the former members of the Council of the Institute of UKC Ljubljana, that all personnel matters are confirmed first by the Ministry and then by the Kobayagi we confirm, the Council of the Institute decides. So, please, for specific answers, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of Health Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thanks for the extra question. What the previous members of the board of institutions gave, how it was in the past. As Minister of Health, my responsibility and my task is only to propose a consensus or disagreement on putting UKC's leadership on the government. And the government has the right to accept or give this consent or disagreement. I have never and never, and I will not, in any way, cross this limit of my powers and responsibility, because I repeat, this is the responsibility and responsibility of the Council of the Institute, both for appointment and for discharge. Same as it was, say, at the Oncology Institute. The Council of the Institute must take over and representatives of the founder’s member, that is, the State, take full responsibility for its work and conduct in this institution’s world. They shall have this task in accordance with the Institute Act and also with individual acts of establishment. I've called on May to be objectively responsible for what I can call and what someone who feels morally and subjectively about their own is holding them to do. If this has not been done, I have no option or whatever to call and work at this time, because it will carry out this task and find subjective responsibility on the basis of the facts already identified in the individual recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Since August 2010, the decree on measures to control harmful ambrosia plants has been in force, which requires landowners to remove this invasive and one of the most allergenic plants in our country in a timely manner, before blooming and in a prescribed manner. The monitoring of the implementation of the measures provided for in this Order is carried out by a phytosanitary inspection which, according to the state of nature, has obviously not done its part satisfactorily, as this invasive and, in particular, allergenic alien plant has greatly expanded, even to such an extent that doctors already perceive the epidemic of allergic diseases caused by its floral powder. In doing so, let me mention that allergic diseases reduce the working efficiency and the treatment costs are high. The negative effects are also reflected in the deteriorating quality of stay, which also negatively affects the tourism competitiveness of the region and the wider area. Dear Minister, the negative consequences are more than too much for immediate action. I'm afraid we're slowly losing war with this high allergen plant, so I'm wondering: Are you preparing any interventions as well as permanent measures to improve the current situation? Thank you for your valuable answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u124	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for your current question and allow me to answer it. The phytosanitary inspection of the Food Safety Authority shall be carried out in accordance with the rules, on the basis of reports and after confirmation of the ambrosia growth of the action in the administrative procedure under the Inspection Control Act and shall also set a deadline for the removal of ambrosia. In most cases, it is sufficient to remove the plant’s owner. At this point, I would like to say that it is the duty of land owners and managers to remove ambrosia, the country is the one who controls or does so. Under the law, if the landowner fails to take account of the removal of ambrosia, a fine of EUR 500 or 500 for the legal person is prescribed for the legal person. It should be said that up to now, phytosanitary inspectors have reviewed more than 2,000 different locations and have responded to applications if applications are made, and have issued more than a thousand 200 warnings under the law. At the same time, the Food Safety Authority has also prepared and issued instructions for the suppression of ambrosia, cooperates with the Agricultural Advisory Service and warns municipalities, road and rail companies and others about their obligation to control ambrosia. A good example of good practice is also, for example, the Municipality of Ljubljana with the action Rokavice up. However, the following needs to be said: ambrosia is an extremely unwelcome plant that grows practically everywhere, is not difficult in terms of growth and moisture, it is rapidly converted and the seeds are soiled for 40 years, and therefore it also belongs to invasive alien plants. It is practically everywhere in Slovenia and is widespread in all neighbouring countries. It is thus impossible to suppress ambrosia in Slovenia, but it can be easily eradicated all the time, but it is the task of owners, where the role must also be played by a competent inspection. I agree, however, that even more emphasis needs to be placed on raising awareness of landowners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Culture mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today's question will be about the Borl Castle. The Borl Castle, which is out there, I will say, on the slope of Haloz, over the Drava River, along the Ptuj-Zavrč regional road, otherwise it is in the municipality of Cirkulane. It was first mentioned in 1199. Some myths also link him to Parsival, a seeker of the Holy Grail. During World War II, there was a collective camp in it, and a hotel and restaurant were later arranged in it. After 1980, the castle was emptied and abandoned. For anyone you haven't seen in person, I can only say that the castle is truly remarkable and also in an extraordinary location. In recent years, the castle has been taken care of by the state, which has also done minor reconstruction work. Above all, in the past, there have been fewer events in the past. The last event, which was in its immediate vicinity and where I was alone, was the 13th year in a row Sheep-goat ball, which was every first Saturday of July. At that time, the organizers told me that it was actually very difficult for them to obtain permission that this event was actually carried out in the immediate vicinity of the castle. It's supposed to be about keeping people out there dangerous. If we look at a little chronology, what happened to the castle? In 2010 and 2011, two failed invitations to rent the castle, in 2013 two failed public auctions for the castle and also in 2013 failed direct sale of the castle. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: What activities are you planning to revitalize the castle? Are you going to fix the castle, rent it, sell it? Are there any activities in this direction? We know that the castle and its surroundings were visited shortly by the President of the Government, Mr Cerar. Can we possibly look forward to greater support for the rehabilitation and revitalization of the castle itself? And I also want to know: Why were the problematic permits for the celebration of the Sheep-goat ball this year, and what does this mean for next year? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you for this question, honourable Member. Dear Presidents, honourable Members, the rest present! True, it is a remarkable pearl worth preserving, and it is a monument of national importance. That's why I don't think it's easy to sell them, sell them, and I don't know what to do with them. However, measures are, of course, necessary to preserve this monument. Currently, the decree on the declaration of this monument also established the destination, which is a tourist and accommodation activity. At the moment, the condition of the facility, I can say, is kind of sad in that it's dangerous for visitors. This is also the reason that the castle has been closed, despite the fact that over the years, around EUR 800,000 has been invested in the castle since 1995. The castle, as it is said in such a state, is dangerous for visitors, especially in the second atrium, where the inner balconies are partially broken, the porches are damaged, the gutters are damaged, the long-lasting deserts, the facade falls off, the movement of the premises is dangerous. As a result, certain works were also carried out at the end of 2014, in the first atrium, i.e. during my term of office. We have provided emergency maintenance work, closed all access to the rest of the castle, repaired sewer shafts, removed and repaired the falling barrier on the facade and two interiors in the entrance line, replaced the decaying window full, repaired the entrance side and the uncontrolled access additionally secured main entrance. For the possible use of at least part of the castle, electrical installations should also be arranged because the castle is currently in the dark. This, of course, poses an additional danger if someone moves there. In addition, the flow of meteor water at the entrance to the first atrium must be regulated. This is also the reason why the castle currently remains completely closed. The movement is also limited outside the walls, where there is not yet a rehabilitated bottom of the coast under the castle on the state road, for which is the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia’s Infrastructure Directorate, which carried out field research this year, and by the end of the year projects for rehabilitation were also designed. At the Ministry, we're thinking about this town. In 2015, we ordered a list of the essential maintenance components to prevent deterioration, so that the next set provides for the recovery of the canes and turtles in the second atrium. In addition, we have included this castle in the Proposal for Priority Investment 6.2, which is called Protection and Restoration of Biodiversity and Soil and Promotion of Ecosystem Services, including Natura 2000 Networks and Green Infrastructures. The holder of the priority investment shall be the Ministry of Environment and Space. As you know, culture has no priority investment and therefore we seek to obtain funds from other ministries, as well as in this case, we are talking about a project worth around €4.5 million. Under this project is also a project to rebuild and revive the Borl Castle. In this context, static rehabilitation should be carried out for the Castle and arrangements for appropriate areas and protection of cultural heritage, in addition to programmes and projects for integration and cooperation in the field of promotion, awareness-raising and marketing. To this end, the Ministry of Culture will receive 1.2 million European grants and 0.3 million Euros of Slovenian participation. I hope that this project will soon be confirmed by a decision, so that we can start with these things. But for the rest, after the chance to speak again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you for your answer so far. I really want the Borl castle to be saved from its collapse, and of course I expect you to do everything at the Ministry to make it happen as soon as possible and to save our cultural heritage. If I understand you correctly, you'll be heading for the castle's rehabilitation, which means the lease and sale are no longer valid. I'm also curious: When do you plan if all these projects are implemented, so that the castle will actually be open to visitors? What do you intend to do with it after the castle is actually repaired? When is this supposed to be, what year, a month? If you could give us a little more specific information. I would also ask you to say: In the following year in this area, near the Borl Castle, will it be possible to have a 14th traditional sheep-goat ball event, for which I somehow cannot imagine that it would be anywhere else than here in the immediate vicinity of the Borl Castle? You mentioned that there is actually a reason why the castle is closed, unscheduled electrical installations and an outflow of meteor water, at least one part. When exactly do you expect this to happen and at least part of the castle will be open to the public? A lot of people, a lot of visitors visit the Borl Castle and are actually extremely disappointed when they get to the closed doors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much for this additional question. Exactly when the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia will arrange the external part to be safe, I cannot tell you this, even though there we will try to get more assurance as far as this is concerned. But it is so that when this European project is in this work, of course we will do it as soon as possible, I think that at least part of the castle can be opened for cultural activities. You know that the municipality is so interested in the use of the castle, and in the municipality there is a very active society for the revival of the Borl Castle. In addition, a consortium for the Borl Castle was established in 2014. In this context, I am very pleased that the local community is aware of the importance of this castle, which is very important because the castle can then be properly used. At the Ministry of Culture, we are aware that a total of around €6 million is needed to rebuild the castle. It means that this million and a half I've been talking about won't be enough. This was also the reason that, even in the law that talks about emergency programmes in culture, we also include the castle Borl with a sum of EUR 4 million, which of course would then be enough, almost enough to do so, of course, with some additions, to prevent the collapse of this state monument and to enable the use of the monument, that is, the safe use of the monument by the community, by society, which is what we want very much, so that it would really be for cultural activities, tourist activities, that is, what the conclusion itself is, how this castle should be used. It is so that right now because of the financial situation, we know what the measures are, so we have already prepared this law there around May. He hasn't been admitted to the government yet. We will try to find solutions with the Government in order to get to this work as soon as possible. As it is said, for once, I can speak more about this priority investment through European funds, so that I hope that this castle will also be adequately repaired and that it will finally be able to contribute to the growth of gross social product, which is also intended for cultural tourism, not to speak of this fundamental importance, which is obviously very much understood in the local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. The Slovenian public strongly opposes the privatisation policy of state-owned enterprises, which is symbolized by the famous list of 15 companies led by our Telekom. However, in the past season, an investment management strategy was adopted, which extended the privatisation list by 46 companies, and the Government, without the consent of the National Assembly, can partially privatise 45 other major companies. The strategy also contains a clause prohibiting any private owner in Petrol, Krka, NLB and Sava reinsurance company from obtaining a greater share than the state has. In this regard, I am interested in two questions, the first question: Why did you even agree to a diversified property provision? Given that you were not too fond of her, which also proved to be the case with the Insurance Office Triglav, which your finance ministry wanted to classify so that it could privatize the majority share. What is your rational explanation for landing on this dispersed property provision? The second question is this: This governance strategy has been in force for two months now and I am interested in: What have you done to the government or SDH so far to enforce this prohibition in practice? To explain, in the United Left, we are, of course, opposed to Petrol becoming some kind of sidekick, for example, a Hungarian oilman, as was the case with our neighbours with Croatian Ino. We oppose Krka becoming a victim of some kind of Agrokor, such as your predecessors allowed in Mercator. And of course we do not want to sell the New Ljubljana Bank, as we sold the NKBM, where the country only helped the bank with €1 billion of our money in 2013 and the public money out there, and it absorbed only a quarter of these funds for bora. And I am concerned that, therefore, these diversified ownership clauses will not make it possible to apply in practice. However, the strategy is to manage a political act that does not create legal rights and duties. In short, if we have something written in the strategy, some sentence, some clause in the strategy cannot prevent private owners from selling their shares to anyone they want, and then, of course, this concentration of ownership happens to us, a miserly strategy says it can't. And you have further stated in the strategy that SDH must include this prohibition in the statutes of Petrol, Krka and the other three companies before having any shareholdings of these companies. But to amend these statutes it takes three-quarters of the vote in the Assembly and the state has a sufficient share in the New Ljubljana Bank alone, in Krk, in Petrol, and Savi has no share. That's why I want to know: How will you implement the concentration ban? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you very much, honourable Member, Mr. Kordish! However, I would first point out that, with regard to the country's capital investment management strategy, it was a key objective, number one, better governance of state assets and, of course, also a comparative assessment and determination of what results these companies must achieve, while at the same time having a strategic view of the development of state-owned enterprises. The privatisation of that part, which makes no sense being in state hands, and we have been through a very complex methodology, which has also been reviewed by foreign advisory companies, classified and defined, has shown to certain companies that they have no strategic or other importance for Slovenia. So it is significantly better for these companies to operate in the private sector. Of course, we have classified companies in strategic, important and portfolio terms in this context, as has been established by law. Certain of these important companies were determined to maintain at least 25% of their shares. However, for certain of these, it has also been established that the country must have the largest share. For most of these companies, this follows from their strategies, which were adopted even before we were working on a capital investment management strategy. For example, this is also the case in Krka, where the company's strategy was also developed on this ownership logic. If I go back to that particular question of yours, how did we think? Maybe just to get back to what you asked, what was the thinking when we agreed to this division or this restriction on these particular companies, that ownership must be dispersed. As I have already said, this largely stemmed from the fact that it had already been written in the strategy itself that such a dispersion was presumptive. Now, if I go to this particular question. Also in the context of your specific question, it should be stressed that this is not a privatisation list, which is particularly true for the companies you specifically mention, as they are all identified as important. For these companies, the State retains at least a control rate of 25 % and one share because it is a category of significant investment. However, the State's position in these companies is further strengthened by the provision on dispersion. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the country already has a dominant influence in those companies. In Krk the country has 26.85%, the second largest owner has less than 6%, in Petrol 28.02, the second largest 12,79, Sava almost 30%, the second largest owner 6,87, Sava Reinsurance 29%, the second largest 9.8 and NLB have 100%. The provision on dispersion from the strategy means that the State in these companies retains its position and ownership relations with other owners who individually must not exceed the share of the State. A specific case is the NLB, which must comply with commitments with State aid granted privatised by the end of 2017. The strategy therefore identifies this bank as important with the dispersion of ownership, which will be ensured by the sale process, by placing shares on the international market under the IPO programme, the first public offerings or by public offerings are made. How the ban on concentration or dispersion will be achieved, you have already stated. The strategy gives guidance to SDH to regulate this in the company's statutes or in other appropriate ways. In line with the established system of corporate governance of state-owned companies, SDH is in charge of management, and the Government and the National Assembly, as the highest management act, gives it basic guidance, which is therefore in the hands of SDH. The government does not have management privileges in this regard, but, of course, by giving consent to the annual management plan as an implementing act of the strategy and by verifying the annual and quarterly reports, it monitors the implementation of the guidelines of this strategy. In the event that management is not carried out in accordance with the strategy, the Government as SDH Assembly may act in accordance with the SDH Act and the Company Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Request for a follow-up to Mr Miha Kordish's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm only going to hold on to this second answer that I've put in place, and here I'm most interested in that supplement why. In fact, I am not an expert in corporate law, but the Law on Economic Companies is very clear, in its Article 239, it allows this prohibition to be incorporated into the Statute. Article 329, as it were, I will quote: "The conclusion of the Assembly requires a majority of at least three quarters in the conclusion of the representation of basic capital." The Republic of Slovenia has a certain percentage of ownership in the Sava reinsurance company, Krka, Petrol, and you have just cited these percentages yourself, Mr. Maramor. And the second thing I'm worried about here is the very formulation of a strategy that says that SDH must ensure that concentration is prohibited before any availability. This can be read that SDH must do so before it sells state shares, and the essence of this ban is protection against the hostile takeover that may occur if private owners sell the controlling share. That's why I'm interested. How will you make sure that this prohibition is applied as soon as possible? In addition to these three quarters for amending the Statute, you mentioned some other options or that the Strategy provides for other levers and other ways, such as amending the Statute, to ensure that ownership is dispersed. I want to know: What are these other options? But if there's only this change of statute on the floor, I'm curious: How will you ensure this change of status if the government as an owner does not have three-quarters of the capital represented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u140	My answer will be relatively short. This is the task of SDH to carry out in other situations, we do not have such a large share that it has a controlling share over 50%, but that SDH must obtain the consent of the other owners. So that's just SDH's job, as I said before, and explain how we're going to monitor it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister and Minister! In the Research and Innovation Programme Horizon 2020, which takes place from 2014 to 2020, the European Commission has established mandatory open access to all peer reviews from co-financed projects. This should ensure open access to the results of publicly funded research across the European Research Area and thus enable the further development of open science. The European Commission launched its first activities to modernise scientific communication in 2004 and implemented an open research data pilot in 2014 and 2015. In accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, Member States of the European Union should also implement the same provisions for national funding of research activities. Dear Minister, I ask you: What has Slovenia done towards open access to scientific publications and research data? To what extent have we followed the recommendations of the European Commission in our country? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u144	Dear Member, thank you for this question. This is about the current theme not only of the Framework Programme 2020, Horizon, as we call it, but also about opening the topic of open access to the achievements generated by scientific research and thus their transfer as a form of knowledge transfer to promote economic and social development. Slovenia has taken a relatively fast approach, which is now among the first countries, namely Denmark, Sweden, Austria, Norway, Ireland, Portugal, and has adopted a so-called national strategy for open access to data, as well as achievements created by scientific research within either European or national funding sources. This strategy was adopted by the Government not long ago, this is the first week of September, 3. 9. 2015, and allows us to draw up an action plan for access to open data, that is, everything we have funded so far in 2015 and by 2020 will already be available in this open access, at the same time not only to access publications, but also to the data itself. What do we guarantee? We provide access to all researchers and researchers, who would otherwise have to ask all those who contributed to these achievements for this open access. At the same time, we provide open access to everyone's results, it is said, to every taxpayer, we can say what particular scientific research area or achievements of this area are of interest to them. At the same time, we will also include a great deal of responsibility to the ethical standards that are needed and are also established in the field of scientific research, and you know that we have already discussed these topics a lot. What will the working group, composed of a number of stakeholders, from the representatives of the Rector's Conference, the ARRS and other interested representatives of the public, continue with this work, as it is said, with the preparation of a detailed action plan, is expected in the first half of 2016, and will in fact provide all procedures for access to these types of data or publications with this implementing document. Here we are talking about the so-called repository and we are also talking about any other open access that we can encourage through online means. I think that in this way we have also shown Europe that we are thinking openly and openly to apply the standards, the principles of scientific research, which should be open, transparent and accessible to the widest possible masses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mag. Anže Logar will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister of Finance! The question of the controlled liquidation of two Forum 21 banks, namely the Factor Bank and Probanks, has long been full of media columns, forming different debates on the meaning of such liquidation. Among other things, one of the tasks of the Commission of Inquiry is to provide reasons for the establishment of a bank hole to determine whether such supervised liquidation was considered appropriate. However, the audit panel's audit report for 2014 also made public, where we read, inter alia, on page 53, that the Ministry of Finance paid part of the guarantee without legal basis, in violation of paragraph 2 of the Public Finance Act, which provides that the budget funds are used to finance the functions of the public authorities for the performance of their tasks and other purposes defined by the Constitution, laws or municipal rules. So here I'm asking the Minister: Why did such a violation of the Public Finance Act occur? Where does he see the guilt? On officials or officials responsible at the Ministry of Finance or at the Bank of Slovenia? What will be the consequences of such a violation? What corrective measures has the Minister of Finance taken in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr. Ange Logar! Disgusting question. Legally. I'm an economist. And there are two legal explanations in this regard. One is the legal interpretation of the Court of Auditors; the other is the legal interpretation at the Ministry of Finance. I would try to explain the legal explanation first and then tell you from home how I understand it as an economist. This is because the Court of Auditors’ audit report also raises a question concerning the cashing of the guarantee in respect of loans drawn by Factor Banka and Probank at Banka Slovenije on the basis of a loan in extreme force. In this regard, the Court of Auditors states that part of the expenditure on cash guarantees was incurred without a legal basis, since the Ministry of Finance was also supposed to pay the guarantee for those loans that had been withdrawn since the Bank of Slovenia withdrew from the lending contracts with banks. In opening, I would like to point out that the explicit legal basis for the State guarantees issued for the obligation of banks to draw on a direct loan in extreme force in Articles 24 and 25 of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The guarantee issued by the State allows banks to gradually restructure their business with a view to paying off all ordinary creditors. These articles of law are also the legal basis for that payment by Banka Slovenije during the period when Banka Slovenije has already withdrawn from the loan contract. According to our interpretation, Banka Slovenije indicated this payment to banks during the period when the loan agreement concluded between Banka Slovenije and both banks was still in force to draw on the liquidity loan. The Bank of Slovenia informed the Bank of its withdrawal from the loan agreement and set the notice period as the latest date for the repayment of the loan. In our interpretation, we are based on Article 333 of the Bond Code, according to which the withdrawal from the contract can only take effect with the expiry of the notice period, until the expiry of the payment deadline, it is said, and until then the guarantee is considered an accesory obligation. During the repayment period, the loan contract was still in force and it was possible for banks to be granted additional liquidity and the amount to be added to the calculation of the guarantee obligation. However, the guarantee obligation was higher than the original loan, so that there was room, according to the domestic authorities, for this additional liquidity loan. Finally, let me mention that this payment was made to provide liquidity support to both banks, as otherwise there could be serious consequences for the proper functioning of financial markets that could jeopardise the stability of the financial system. So after this check on your question I checked and, of course, when we got this interpretation from the Accountancy, I checked and also talked to the lawyers and they think that this legal explanation is correct. I think the Ministry of Finance is right here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mag. Ange Logar, request to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Chairman. If I have correctly understood the Minister of Finance, the timetable for this record in the Court of Auditors’ audit report is that the Ministry of Finance is right and the Court of Auditors is right. And I'm asking the minister again, so he'll stay with it. We have a supervisory institution, the Court of Auditors, which is to be taught by the President of the Government, so that we are taught by the Minister of Justice, and also by all the commentators who like to comment on these things, we must respect it, while the Minister of Finance interprets the record in the audit report in his own way, insists on this interpretation. Therefore, it will not take any corrective action. Allow me to complete the question. If the contract between Banka Slovenije and the banks concerned was still valid after the expiry of the notice period, then this notice was extended beyond the time limit when Banka Slovenije paid a certain amount to the two banks. I'm asking for the Secretary's approval. Moreover, I would like to ask you, earlier, that if we did not decide on a controlled liquidation, there were serious consequences for the financial situation in the country. If I'm not mistaken, the country had over 300 million assets in deposits. The state made that deposit. And the serious consequences would have been for the country, due to the state's indiscretion, because it was putting liquidity on the bank's deposits. In addition, I would like to comment on the fact that it is on this accounting audit report that it is likely that the banks will not fully repay their debts to the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u152	I wouldn't want to speculate. However, I would ask for this answer if we could give it in writing, because it is very specific and I was not involved at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkös Žnidar, who initially apologized, did come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u154	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister and other colleagues! We have witnessed one of the biggest migratory refugee crises since World War II. It is also faced by the Republic of Slovenia, which, during the weekend or the end of last week, took the only right path, and this is the legal path, thus the insurance external borders of the European Union or the so-called Schengen border. For this reason, I congratulate the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this wise decision. As this also preserved the European Union's foundation, the foundations for which we also voted and elected in 2004 have finally entered the European Union. Congratulations, of course, go to humanitarian organisations, Karitasu, the Red Cross and volunteers, because this means that this refugee crisis is also a major humanitarian crisis. They've shown that they're extremely busy. The police, your police, the minister, have also shown a great deal of charity and humanitarianism, especially in the cases of the lost family and so on. I am a little speculative and would still point out the willingness of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, we have witnessed, if I am not mistaken, that there were about 2,000 700 migrants crossing the Republic of Slovenia, somewhere around here the numbers are spinning. I wonder what would have happened, but it was not far from that that all 20,000 migrants who had already been in Croatia would have crossed or pressed our Schengen border, so they were sent to Hungary by trains and buses. They've taken the path. Would the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Republic of Slovenia be prepared to the extent that it has now been prepared? Would we continue to insist on reading the Schengen border? Would we have consulted to some extent about the corridors at that time? But I would also like to ask you further about Frontex units: Have you considered anything in this direction in the preparation phase for the next refugee wave, so that Frontex of the Schengen Border Security Unit could also request assistance, given that this wave could be redirected, that the next 20,000 refugees would not go over Croatia to Hungary but from Croatia to Slovenia, and the situation would change considerably? However, I am, Madam Minister, pleased to meet you here in the National Assembly, given that we have really missed you citizens and citizens in the past week. I recommend that you appear in crisis situations and thus give confidence to citizens and citizens that they are safe. It's just for good reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Member, I thank you for the question, but I am even more pleased that you also recognize what the whole of Europe actually recognizes at this moment, namely that Slovenia is a responsible, credible member of the European Union and that we are protecting the Schengen border. In fact, our police have shown all over Europe that they can defend the Schengen border and so will remain as long as possible, because we know that migration flows are unpredictable, they are massive, but we will do everything we can to keep it that way. We are already preparing intensively for migration at last year's time, it is important to stress that we are preparing for a mixed migration flow, so to take into account the fact that these are different types of categories, not only asylum seekers, but also those who cannot be removed from the country that have illegally crossed our border and who are not actually asylum seekers. This is this third category, which is mass, and then they get a detention decision and then they can move around our territory. This is also adequately adapted to accommodation facilities, given that we have a key objective, that they are all settled and that they are not, after all, safe. We have joined in the preparation of the contingent plan last May, which means that we have already started preparations very early and we are also familiar with the Government, and there is also a coordination group at the Ministry, which coordinates all departments and carries out coordination activities, including preparations for possible mass increases in applicants for international protection, as these applicants then have another standard of accommodation. In terms of capacity, the number of capacity is not some indicative value, given that these are then different levels of standard. At this point, we have only seven applicants for international protection. All asylum seekers will be dealt with under the International Protection Act, while others who illegally cross the border remain under the authority of the police because of an illegal border crossing. If possible, they shall be returned to their country of origin or transit. Slovenia consistently implements Schengen legislation because we believe that this is very important, given that we are in co-dependence with other countries. If we do not do this consistently, this also poses a risk to the internal security of other countries. The police are monitoring state borders in accordance with European national legislation and also illegal migrants, so we also have reception centres right at the border so that the procedures are as fast as possible, that they are actually worthy and that there is no further suffering on the part of those who have been travelling for quite some time. In order to prevent a situation that would constitute an uncontrolled situation in Slovenia, so that there is no uncontrolled entry into our country, we also immediately proposed that the Government reintroduce temporary border controls with Hungary. We are very pleased that the European Commission has also confirmed this explanation, that is, because of a situation that could seriously endanger internal security or public order. As far as Frontex is concerned – our police are already participating in Frontex, we are sending about 30 to 40 of our police officers to different borders somewhere, but I also received a guarantee from the President of the European Commission, who said that they will respond to all our needs in a timely manner in a financial sense and will also help us with the help of European agencies. Another situation needs to be mentioned in this context, which actually makes the situation in Slovenia more difficult in view of all these risks that we want to deter from the possible uncontrolled arrival of more people, because this is what is currently recognised by our country as a risk of managing migration flows and consequently national security, that Croatia does not implement its obligations under European legislation, which is also a matter of question, the border control agreement. In fact, it does not exercise control over its borders and does not manage migration, which will also be a future issue that will arise in particular from the point of view of cooperation between our police and their police. As far as the security situation in the country is concerned. I can say that the police, with all the resources available and within their competences, carry out their tasks to ensure a high level of security. I have also been on the ground today, and I find that the situation is satisfactory at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Gardener, please, please, request to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u158	More complement than request to complete the response. Madam Secretary, thank you very much. The question that arises to me is how you will proceed or what you will propose, how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will act against Croatia, which has clearly violated all agreements, what sanctions we will propose against them. In fact, the security of the Republic of Slovenia was also threatened if Croatia continued with this policy. You said that Slovenia can defend Schengen and we proved it. I say, I agree with you and congratulate you, but it is crucial whether we are ready further, as Hungary, which has come from Croatia, that 20 thousand migrants have been released into their territory. In this case, however, circumstances change compared to the fact that we now had 2,000 700 migrants who crossed our border. Furthermore, as far as the police are concerned, I would also like your opinion or your response to this: Were the officers who defended the Schengen actually 20 hours without food without having a meal? How'd it go with the drink, the rest? Why did this happen? Can you deny the allegations of police unions that it is not true that this is not the case? In fact, if it did happen that the police were without food and drink, that the surrounding privates were delivering food to them, this is not good for reading Schengen in the future. And now that you are fighting for the cut of the budget, I recommend that you treat the other partners in the government with responsibility and ensure that, as Minister of Police, they are able to carry out their work in a high-quality manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you. As far as Croatia is concerned. The fact is that Croatia, as a member of the European Union, does not fulfil its obligations towards the European Union, as a result we are in an unfavourable position. I'm always warning you about that. In this regard, I have made several calls in recent days, and I have also made my opinion public. I have also spoken with the Croatian Minister on several occasions, and I have called on him to expect Croatia to fulfil all its obligations under European law, because it is a little unusual that the Schengen candidate is now travelling to Schengen, but at the same time its ability to cooperate with the Schengen countries and the ability to control the external border is currently being assessed. I also plan to meet with the Austrian Minister and Croatian Minister in Brussels tomorrow, where we will also discuss this again. I also discussed this with the European Commissioner for Migration. Thus, Slovenia, in all possible forums and everywhere, warns and also expects Croatia to respect its obligations. We somehow see a discrepancy between their official policy and the police's attitude, because we see that the police are in an unfavourable position because they are aware of their obligations, but in fact at the operational level this is very bad. So this irresponsibility is very important to us, and we warn it everywhere. As far as the care of our officers is concerned. We're taking care of our officers in the field. The fact is, there may have been some logistical complications that we were dealing with. I was also on the ground today, where I learned about this issue live, and the Director of Police assured me that this is not a reflection of the situation on the ground, that they are trying and that they have also additionally entrusted the commanders of special police units to make sure that everyone gets what they need on the ground. We are aware that there is an emergency situation, and we also care for police officers, including respect for labour legal restrictions, so I still do not think that this is a reflection of the situation on the ground, that there is no systemic disruption in the care of our officers on the ground. This is what we have also experienced in the field today, and I think it is not, but it is possible that there have been some problems, and it will go away and so it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! A recent analysis of the economics of construction of the second track between Divisco and Kopro was presented by OECD representatives. This analysis presented some new data, some new aspects, and several variants were processed. The most important elements to be taken into account in this investment in this railway section were presented. Of course, in this investment the second track is one of the most important, if not the most important, element of Luke Koper. Because, of course, we are also in this pre-shipment, logistical part of the competition ahead of us: the port of Rijeka, the port of Venice. The further strategy and development of Luka Koper itself has a strong impact on investment in the second indent, because I believe that both elements need to be seen together, in some common combination. Although, on the other hand, I have a feeling that Luke Koper is acting like this investment, I would say, in the second line between the Divisco and Koper itself, Luke is not at all concerned. In the analysis itself, it was also presented that the self-governance of Luke Koper was not optimal and that it would also need to be improved and refined. On the basis of this new data and because it is an extremely large investment in the construction of a second track between Divisco and Kopro, I am interested in: What will be the follow-up and what will be the Ministry's decisions on this major investment?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, Minister of Infrastructure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, Mr Ljubo Žnidar. I had a similar question today. Maybe I could just correct a little bit for the introduction. The OECD has not done an economic analysis, but has been the primary aim of preparing models for the public private partnership, including an analysis of the risks identified by the realisation. In this context, in order to examine these risks, he also assessed the economy in the rough. It was not based on this conclusion that the competition was overtaken by Luca Koper. As a matter of fact, the port of Koper progresses even faster in certain segments than the neighbouring competition ports in the northern Adriatic. However, they pointed out that there is still a great potential for growth here, but it is not certain that this potential will belong to Luka Koper, and that there will, of course, still have to be a lot of activity here, that we will realize this potential for growth, or that we will even draw a large part of this potential on Luka Koper, so that it will not fall on the neighbouring port. In short, it was kind of a warning. We have to work on this in the country, and Luke Koper has to work on it even more. As I said, in some ways I have a feeling sometimes, yes, that Luka Koper is too placed in a position to ask the country to do something for them, but it is not the right willingness to participate in the search for these solutions, which are difficult. Therefore, if I focus on the activities carried out in this project, I might say, however, that we have obtained a building permit and also a means of building an extraction track, which in fact means the beginning of the construction of a second track. We have also acquired 95% of the land for the construction of the second track alone below. We expect that within six months we will also get the remaining land, so that we will have the conditions for obtaining a building permit. We are also finishing up the investment documentation of this project. Of course, in financial design, the situation is more difficult than ever since the second track began to be planned. It is also generally known that funding from the budget in these current macroeconomic conditions is not possible, but if possible, but, of course, construction could actually start in the following year, once the conditions for obtaining a building permit are met. Since we must now look for other financing models because of this situation, we are limited in time and it is necessary to devote some time and further analysis to this situation. In doing so, we have also asked the OECD for one of these analyses, which has provided us with more data in this work and has also indicated certain solutions to what, how things need to be done and what we can do at this time, when we are acquiring and creating these conditions for establishing a public-private partnership, what other solutions are available in this interim period. One of these solutions is, of course, this ice terminal until the second track itself is built. In this way, we avoid these risks of stagnation during the time when we will have a second track built. In short, it doesn't mean that we stop things any way. We are therefore working intensively to ensure these conditions. Once again very briefly, which are these activities, five are the main ones, one is already, as it is said, to check the options or value assessment and also to check the possibilities for rationalisation and optimization of the project, then we will prepare a call for public interest by private partners, then we will explore the possibility of increasing the share of co-financing from European funds also by participating in calls for proposals where the rest of the cohesion envelopes will be shared, we will check the possibility of cooperation with the latter countries and, as it is said, we will now carry out intensively these activities on land acquisition and then establishing conditions for the award of the construction permit. So much for this initial part.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, a request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much for this part of the answer, Your Honor. I got an answer from your side that this relationship or the initiative of Luke Koper himself we see, I would say, the same. In short, there is no real synergy between Luke and this issue or cooperation. I am aware that the financing solution will not come alone overnight, there are also some intermediate steps that will have to be taken. You yourself mentioned this foreign terminal in Luka Koper, but in fact it's all going through Luke Koper himself, it's not the decision of the Minister himself or your department. Then the intermodal terminal in Divača was further exposed, which would also relieve and temporarily mitigate the time of the transshipment itself in Luka Koper. This is all related to optimisation of logistics and pre-shipment in Luka. These are very important steps, but I don't think Luka Koper is following them. These steps will, however, be necessary to actually bridge problems during the construction of the second track itself. He was a shower subject to interest in partnership in Luka itself, but Luke was not prepared to increase and actually optimize the transhipment in Luka. In short, here I see the problem, and I believe that the task of the ministry itself, as well as the government, will improve these things by managing themselves in Luka Koper.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u167	The word is given by the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Now, actually, I can quite agree with these assessments and words. I am also sure that Luka Koper herself will continue with full responsibility to explore all of these options that actually exist to ensure that in this interim period of difficult search and closure of the financial structure and, of course, also at the time of construction, which, according to professional estimates, can be six, up to seven years, of course, to do so more quickly, but, of course, all of this implies, to this extent, we need to know. So, we're going to say, let's say that this construction time plus the time to prepare and establish this private partnership can last up to ten years, that means until 2025. According to some estimates, the capacity of this existing track can be filled after all updates in 2020, if the load is actually increasing rapidly, and then this growth would not stagnate during the next five years. I think it is appropriate here, of course, for Luka Koper to consider whether she has accelerated growth, despite the establishment of this back-end terminal, or, of course, to decide not to have these accelerated growth during this period, and thus to make this economy more difficult to finance the second track itself. These are the issues that we can solve exclusively and only with the cooperation of Luke Koper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u169	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request that a debate be held at the next meeting on your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you very much. In view of the investment itself, which is of exceptional size for both the State of Slovenia and further to the companies Slovenske železnice and Luka Koper, in order to hold a public debate. Because at the very beginning of such a huge investment we need to know and have answers to what we really want with this investment. Especially in such cases where the economy is very clear that the investment is not 100 % justified. There are also cases in Austria, in neighbouring countries, where they are building railway infrastructure, where investment is not 100 % economically viable, but they are building because they see other economic effects on the economy, jobs and so on. I would like to point out this because we will not eventually reach another TES, where in the beginning it was not really possible to know what the final investment of the Termoelectrica Šostanj will be. This failure to build a second track must not be repeated, for the end is about money, taxpayers’ resources. Of course, all the options for other financing options and methods are open, but to a large extent this will happen to us. And as a result of this importance for our country, for our citizens and, of course, for the economic use of all budgetary resources, I propose that a public debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u171	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mr Tomaž Gantar will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Traffic curves in the coastal municipalities, especially during the summer and during transit crossings to Croatia, simply does not see the end. And the opening of the Markovec tunnel did virtually nothing to reduce congestion on these roads, either Koper-Dragonja, or through Šmarij, or through the Markovec tunnel to connect with Isola and then against Croatia. In fact, these months this situation has had a profoundly negative impact on the quality of life of people on these transit routes. And what is even more worrying is the fact that the solutions that are proposed, as well as the state spatial plans that have already been adopted to solve this problem, do not mean that in fact. In fact, if we go first across the Markovec tunnel, construction is envisaged, and the state spatial plan of the Jagodje-Lucija section is adopted, where the fast road then ends, and the solutions from Lucija are virtually not even on the table and its realization in the next 10, 20 years could virtually not be expected. Similarly with the already adopted DN, which would somehow bypass Shmarje or facilitate this part, it is said, from Škocjan, from Kopra to Šmarij to Draganje, an extremely expensive, delayed, difficult solution, which is not yet foreseen. In particular, these solutions do not constitute a burden on these coastal populations. In August this year you received the initiative of coastal mayors, these coastal municipalities, the Municipality of Koper, Izola and Piran for an alternative solution prepared by experts who are familiar with this part. This is a solution that seems to be more meaningful, in particular significantly faster, with significantly smaller interventions into the environment and also significantly cheaper. This is where I want to know: What is your position on the proposed solution? When will you prepare an official response to the coastal municipalities? When would a step forward be expected if this attitude were positive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u173	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Tomaž Gantar, I thank you for this question. Indeed, already in July, both experts who somehow imagined this alternative presented themselves at the Ministry, and later received this initiative from the municipalities. Let me start by saying that this initiative actually seems very valuable to me, and we are also seriously considering it and will give an appropriate answer as soon as possible. All I have to say is that, as the initiative is designed, it changes the concept of coastal transport, which, as you yourself have already said, has been conceived in some other times, with some expensive solutions, and on some very limited space we place two four-passengers, which in some ways is already at first glance, I will say quite irrational. For one would serve mainly some transit traffic, especially during the summer period, but otherwise not to a large extent to be used, while the other would be intended for this integration of the local population, which also does not have completed solutions in its lower part, and even as I was aware this year it does not have any approval to carry out. And if she wasn't brought to the Croatian border, she's losing her mind. This alternative proposal, however, somehow links this initial part of this coastal solution. With the last part of this smarmy solution, it picks up the good sides of both of them, bringing them together, and avoiding the bad solutions of those existing, planned solutions so far, the coastal ones at the end and those slaps at the beginning. We will really examine this issue from all these environmental, transport, economic aspects. Furthermore, if this is shown, I am quite sure that the alternative will prove to be more useful, so it will be necessary to change the plans envisaged so far, even then to modify the VAT for this existing smarmy option, which is practically just before completion, and of course all of these solutions are planned then to be included in a new operational plan, which we are also currently preparing at this time on the basis of the transport development strategy. I estimate that this solution will in fact bring about some logical link and the conclusion of all these efforts so that this problem will be adequately resolved on the coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the ministers and everyone in the hall! The Minister will probably agree with me that the state road situation is alarming. In view of the fact that we have before us the adoption of both budgets for 2016 and 2017, I ask the Minister: What increase in budget lines in the area of state roads is envisaged? I am asking this question, because of all the debates that have taken place on the Committees dealing with road issues so far. All these committees had the view of the Ministry and also of the Minister that some normal maintenance of state roads needed to be increased in the budgets. This position is also based on individual studies made in the past, how much investment is needed in this road infrastructure in a given year. We note, however, that some maintenance works and also some major investments are actually normally carried out on the motorway cross and, on the other hand, works on state roads are lagging behind or are only being carried out within the framework of funds provided for through European programmes. That is why I am also interested in this aspect: How much funding is foreseen in these new budgets from the European budgets for the reconstruction of state roads? However, I think this is also important in this respect, if we observe traffic accident statistics, this year's statistics are getting worse again. This is probably also some sample link between state roads and traffic, according to all, I would say, studies that have been done are probably also important. That's why I'm really curious: What is this item in the national budgets for the next two years? As I have said, the position of both the ministry and the minister has been in the past and also at all meetings of the home committee that it is necessary to increase these funds, in order to maintain in some way the status of state roads at least at this level, but to achieve a better situation and thus greater transport security, but in the coming years much more must be invested. That's why I'm expecting an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u177	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Member, Mr Daniel Krivec! Perhaps the introduction should state what the structure of the budget is, what they are dedicated to. In fact, we have integrative resources and resources here. The earmarked funds represent a large majority of the funds collected by the annual vehicle registration fee, and then there are European funds here, and we need to ensure that we have that own contribution to the lack of co-financing. In 2015, we are virtually all of us, both integrated and earmarked – I must point out that they are designed, in particular, for the investment maintenance and investment of new buildings, but in the past these funds have also been made available, because the integral resources have not been sufficiently measured, they have to be spilt and earmarked for the needs of regular maintenance and for the purposes of ensuring their own participation in European projects. In the following year, in fact, we are faced with the fact that European funds will no longer be available so much. We know that, in the next perspective for road and rail infrastructure projects, this volume is much smaller, especially in the field of road infrastructure, and therefore this share of own co-financing resources will have to be provided accordingly. Therefore, in this share, this share of the earmarked resources can now be allocated to investments and investment maintenance, as well as to the integral funds that we receive from the 2016 and 2017 draft budgets, are sufficient to cover this regular maintenance, so that all of these earmarked funds can be allocated again after four, five years for investment maintenance and investment in 2016. However, this is still very limited. These funds are about 150 million, or we have increased these funds by 15 million, with a proposal for 2016 and 2017, so that some 170 million will now be available, and these funds are therefore allocated to investments in road and rail infrastructure. This will be the next year for roads – I am speaking only for investment maintenance, investment – of poor €90 million. So we will complete the projects that have already been started, repair all these dangerous places, bridge facilities, implement these more extensive overlays, rehabilitation of the beaches, etc. This is much more than it was this year, when we were at the level of ten to fifteen million after the redeployments. But it is still, I must say, a more serious turnaround, a turnaround in stopping the deterioration of our network of road and rail infrastructures, too little. Only in order to maintain the current status should we invest a minimum of EUR 100 million in road infrastructure. As we say, we are now in poor 90 million with the 2016 draft budget. We can barely exceed 100 million in 2017, and we are at the very limit of this minimum when we stop further deterioration, but we are not turning the trend towards this current poor state when we say that 70% of the network is in this poor or very poor state in order to bring it to 50% in the next few years. It is our assessment that if we set ourselves this goal to rehabilitate the network within six years in order to keep 50 % in poor or very poor condition, we should invest about 200 million a year in the road network alone. In short, we need to find some additional resources to make this possible in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u179	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you, Minister, for your frank answer. It was very, I would say, so widespreadly Solomonic, but it is clear from everything that in the coming years there is significantly less funding for state roads than in the past, since it has been clearly said that there is no European funding. This is not only a burden for the integral part of the budget, because it is necessary to ensure own participation, but it would also mean greater investments or greater investment maintenance. Which means from your discussion that the means for maintaining and modernising state roads in 2016 and 2017 are significantly lower. I hope you can confirm that. Thus, this interpretation of regular maintenance does not help because it is necessary, but from the point of view of investment maintenance, there will be fewer resources on state roads, which therefore probably means what we now find to be an option or an increase, I would say, accidents could also be a consequence of this fact. I think that we are moving in a similar situation as we started to move in the maintenance of watercourses and similar cases where, due to non-maintenance, minor injuries occur then to significantly larger accidents, and the same will happen to us on roads where no minor injuries are being remedied, and then there will be clear major injuries that require the restoration of road transport, which in that case means 10 or 20 times the investment. So I would just like to have a possible answer about the level of maintenance funds, because I can conclude from your response that these funds will actually be significantly less in the next two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u181	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much. It is true, as I said, that we must look at everything together, European, integral and dedicated resources. In recent years, the scope of European funds has required so much of its own participation that, in fact, no other projects have been able to be implemented, except those supported by European funds. Everything else has stopped. It is true, however, that in the next perspective, where European funds are significantly smaller for these purposes and are actually not available for the state road network, there are only core networks available, motorway networks where in the corridors are referred to as the Karavanka tunnel, as the Drazenci-Gruškovje section on the freeway, but not for the state road network, so, of course, the whole scope, cumulative, now that we are aggregated, is significantly smaller in the next two years, if we are looking at the state road network. However, if I serve with a number, in 2015 these investments will be on the road network together with European funds for around €460 million In fact, this is also a number with rail, €460 million, and in the next two years European funds will fall by around 270 million and in 2017 by 200 million less than in 2015. [[…]] In short, in order to make this significant investment decline due to the fall in European funds, it is essential to step up these efforts or to step up investment activities that will be financed by their own resources, the earmarked funds from the budget for reconstruction, new construction and, in this regard, our efforts are also to ensure that these accessible funds are provided in the form of an additional one, such as the ongoing debate, the infrastructure fund or infrastructure contribution already today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u183	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u184	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. During the period of the belt tightening policy, regional development has been pushed aside from funding priorities or financial incentives. Last but not least, this proves the empty tab entitled Preparation of Regional Development Programmes 2014-2020 on your Ministry’s website. In a specific case, however, the development of the White Landscape Information Centre comes to absurdity, which is typical of a neoliberally distorted way and concept of development, which has nothing to do with the social state, solidarity and even less with ethics and morality. In fact, the poor fund the rich to make it richer. To translate this into figures, the White Country at the annual level contributes 20 million more to the state budget than it gets from the country. It is therefore a matter of exhaustion of the problem area and not of development incentives at all. The Pocolpje 2016 programme, published by the Government in April 2011, is implemented only in a modest percentage and is absolutely impossible for it to be implemented in 2016. We therefore propose that the programme be extended until 2020. That allows us to do two things. The first is a stable economic growth and the second from Brussels is a certified document for the use of European development funds of over €4 billion. That's why I'm asking you: When will you publish the regional development programmes 2014-2020 and fill the gap on your ministry's website with text at least? Other: Did you foresee in the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 the funds for the Pocolupje programme and to what extent? Are you preparing a proposal for the Government to extend the implementation of the Competitiveness Promotion Programme and the development support measures to the Pocolpium in the period 2011 to 2016 by 2020 as early as this year? Thank you so much for the deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u185	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to give your answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u186	Madam President, Member Violeta Tomić, Members, Members, thank you for the question! The Regional Development Programmes are the programmes prepared by each region for the programming period and the Ministry of Economic Development of each of these 12 programmes, as far as it is in Slovenia, gives its opinion in prior coordination with the other resources concerned by the content of each regional development programme. The Regional Development Programme of each of the 12 development regions shall be adopted by the Regional Development Council, which shall be the tripartite body of representatives of municipalities, economies and NGOs. In particular, the Regional Development Programme is a document of an individual region that plans the development of the region, which is why regions are also organised in such a way as to publish these development programmes on the websites of the competent regional development agencies. Once the most recent regional development programmes are adopted and approved by the competent regional authorities, we will also complete this issue and this gap, which you mention and hold, on our websites. However, I must say that in this period we have conducted discussions with all 12 regional development agencies, including what you are talking about, and have become familiar with their regional development programmes. We wanted to start a new financial perspective for the European Union as soon as possible, to come up with projects that are already ready to be implemented as soon as possible, now that this smart specialisation strategy is adopted, and I can say that I believe that this issue will happen for all 12 regions, including for the Cholepius, within a maximum speed period of as long as it is before us, by the end of the year. The second question is, if we have foreseen funds for Pocolpas also in budgets 2016 and 2017. In the design of budgets 2016 and 2017, we are on the item dedicated to problem areas, for Maribor with its surroundings, Zasavje, Hrastnik, Trbovlje, Radeče and Pokolpije, plus Pomurje, which has a special law, but is in the same rank as predicted – or without Pomurje, pardon – 8 million euros, of which 2.5 million for the problem area of Poklopja. However, I must say that for the first time this year, for all three problems in the area, we are going to devote an additional 22 million favourable reimbursements, which we are going to spend mainly in this economic area, of which I think will fall down on the Cologne about 4.5 million. When I said "favourable, returnable", in a relatively short time it will be defined exactly what that means, but it means a long-term and low interest rate. This is an additional part to support this in all areas of concern. I can say that, despite all that you have said, around the drought of financial resources so far, yes, these funds, which have so far been put in place to encourage such and other economic activities, have given rise to success, so we believe that we must continue to reduce these differences and that we can bring unemployment below 17%. That is why we will strive to draw up a proposal, or we will draw up a proposal for a law – I am responsible – to extend this programme. Now, whether it will be just by 2020, I will not say at this time, because in the National Assembly we already have a proposal for an extension of the law for two years in Pomurje. We will try to do this on the basis of an analysis of the existing situation and to resolve this matter accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u187	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u188	Thank you very much for this comprehensive answer, Minister. I'm very glad that's the case, and we'll hold you to that. I think you're running out of time to explain it to me more, so I'll give you another chance. A few hours ago, Umar at the press conference increased his assessment of economic growth for this year and this is, say, a circus of 40 million at the annual level more than expected. Thus, we will be extremely pleased if any part of these funds comes to these underdeveloped areas that need encouragement in their development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u189	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you. Nevertheless, I would like to say once again to everyone that economic growth means only that we have turned the negative trend upwards and that 3%, 2.7 or 2.5% does not mean that we are much above 2008. This only means that we have a stable environment in which structural reforms can be taken seriously. On the inside, we now have a little more air to start thinking and preparing more appropriate programmes or programmes that will deliver even more results in all three problem areas and in Pomura, and also reduce this backlog. Otherwise, I believe, and we will strive to give more in these areas than they give, even though I will check your thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u191	Mr Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u192	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question today concerns the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition of the Republic of Slovenia regarding milk prices in our country. We talked a lot about milk this year, especially in the spring when milk quotas fell. Also in the area of milk self-sustainment in the Republic of Slovenia, we find that we are over 100% self-sustained. The problem of our farms, those dealing with milk, is mainly because this year’s average milk prices are falling in 2015. I must admit that perhaps in the last month, last month or two, this trend has stopped – of course, this is where the farms are concerned. This year, I noticed that the Agricultural Institute in the Republic of Slovenia was doing some research where it found that a farm with 15 milkmilks or a cow that dries up to 6 thousand 500 litres a year, that is that data, which is very high, a lot of cows mow much less – 5 or 4 thousand 500 litres – could come up with a price of less than 0,40 cents. Today the price of milk is around 0,30, 0,29. This price must have come to a low point, so the farms are concerned. In particular, this price interferes with some stock of farms, I have this stock in mind, because farmers were preparing for the spring plant, for investments in agriculture, but of course there are still a lot of things on the farm where a farmer or farm must have some money to spend the year. As we live in the European Community, we know that it is very competitive. The Republic of Slovenia and farmers are very difficult to compete with some countries, such as the Netherlands, where beef nutrition is in nature for almost nine, ten months and in the Republic of Slovenia for six months. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of Agriculture, What activity has the Ministry or Government already undertaken in the field of these prices and price cuts? Is this gonna stop? How do you replace these low prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u193	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Dejan the Jew, who will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u194	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for the current question. It's actually a big crisis. In the last year, the average buying-in price fell by 20,5 %. This is also the exact average of the European Union. As you yourself have predicted, even for intensive, so-called dairy production, the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia currently estimates the coverage rate of 79% of the basic costs incurred by the farm for milk production. We somehow had known that there was a decline in quotas, the Russian embargo and the smaller purchasing power in Asia were new, that was not the case. [[…]] However, at the beginning of this year, we have introduced a production bond for the most difficult farms, namely mountain-mountain farms, which in practice receive an average of € 130 per cow, which amounts to some €5 million per year, such as this aid. Secondly, the last rural development programme spent €65 million on restructuring the dairy sector. On the basis of requests from Slovenian dairy companies to open an additional market, like China, this has now been realized. Together with Slovenian milk producers and some other companies, we are now going to China in November to conclude contracts or at least negotiate deals. However, the crisis is so great that it requires additional measures. One of the national additional measures that we have agreed on is the action for the use of local milk, which is just at the end of the week in order to increase the consumption of domestic milk in Slovenia. At European Union level, we have also agreed on some measures. One of the first measures is the single aid to farmers. This, of course, does not solve the problem of low buying-in prices, but it can help as a single aid. Slovenia has received a envelope that is slightly less than €1.4 million, and we will add some of our own money, so that the measure will remind us of the 2010 measure as a one-off aid. At this point, we are also talking about whether it would be helpful for farms if we paid direct payments prematurely. Here, however, the answer is not a single one, because then most farms are paid twice in one year and then fall twice in the income and income class. Thus, the attitude here is more negative than it is unreceptive. What we have agreed at European Union level is the extension of the storage measure, an intervention measure for both powdered milk and butter and a novelty for cheese. This is where Slovenia got the quota. We have further agreed that, with European money at European Union level, we will buy some surpluses of production to stabilise the market and these products will be permanent dairy products intended for refugees. What we have not yet been able to discuss, because Europe is exactly in half, is to raise the intervention buying-in price of milk. The current intervention buying-in price of milk, when the country reaches the market, is €21.7 if it is recalculated. A group of countries, including Slovenia, requested an increase of at least 20%, in our opinion. Perhaps for those who do not know, the intervention price is something similar to the minimum wage for employees. So there must be a lower limit somewhere, under which we are talking in essence about the issue of morality and the same as a worker protected by minimum wage, our desire is to protect the farm with some minimum purchase price. It is further agreed that more money for promotion outside the European Union will be available. But one part of the quota is 30%, and it will also be intended to promote milk within the European Union in order to accelerate consumption, which unfortunately has started to decline in the last year. At the moment, there is no problem in Slovenia with the sale of milk, the problem is only with the fall, as you said, Mr. Member, although the price is now the last month, it is stable, but it is already too low. This does not apply only to Slovenian farmers, this is true for the vast majority of European countries, that the current production price is below the price allowing the costs to be covered. We observed in Slovenia, according to statistics, a state of concern, and this is that the price of the farmer fell by 20.5%, from dairy to trade by 9.4%. According to statistics, the price of consumer milk did not fall, and it even increased by one percent. That's why we're already having conversations inside the whole chain. We have invited representatives of farms, industry and the Chamber of Commerce to temporarily intervene in these irregular relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u195	Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u196	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive response. Of course, also thank you, on behalf of all Slovenian farmers, for the effort that you and your ministry would have made to date on the difficulties of buying milk. Of course, today is an insufferable matter, no one claims. Our Slovenian farmers are afraid of what will happen tomorrow or next year. Let me say, I hope I have just noticed that Ljubljana's dairy has applied for a public invitation to tender for the delivery, sale of milk to kindergartens or schools for a price of 0.31 cents. Of course, milk brought from the farm, processed, processed and brought back to kindergarten, and of course our farmers get a price of 0.29 for milk. This information concerns what competition our farmers will face in the future, so it is a concern for the future how the state or the ministry will take action in this area. In short, farmers do not always expect anything to be done in the milk sector. Perhaps in parallel, as you spoke with the distinguished minister, reliefs in some other areas. I myself observed last year that the Government of the neighbouring country of Italy in the area of pigmeat production, where prices fell drastically, allowed farmers to put photovoltaics on their facilities. In this way, I would like to say that it is not always the goal but that farmers are required to do just what they touch, but perhaps the Ministry of Agriculture can also help our farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u197	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you, Member, we think alike. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also adopted an amendment to the Supplementary Activity Regulation which allows farms to have photovoltaics as an additional activity. We didn't limit it to roofs, because it's essentially hard to own roofs, we would only do administration, but to power. In fact, the farm has the power, the ability to have photovoltaics, as well as some other renewable energy sources. Perhaps also because of this crisis, which is present, we have adopted at the Ministry, at the initiative of the Council for Agriculture and Rural Affairs, that, of course, we still need the consent of the European Union, next year, I am introducing a new measure which has at least two effects; this is an impact both on the farm and a good impact on animals and this is the welfare of the free breeding of animals. So, if the farm will have its cows, its dairy, and even a small meal for at least one hundred and twenty days in the open, which is useful for animals, we will in some way further support this attitude towards animals. This can also be understood as additional financial assistance to Slovenian beef and milk farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u199	Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, I refer the issue to Minister Anjo Kopač Mrak in particular as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. An extremely demanding area, extremely difficult and, of course, also a responsible area. On finding that your government or our government has started with the second year of its mandate, on finding that it is precisely today that Umar has again made an optimistic outlook for economic growth this year, on finding that somehow a positive trend has started in the economy, and of course on finding that public investment is somehow at its peak this year, they are culminating, in fact, that the second year will not be, because we will not yet optimally or at least sufficiently draw on the funds from the new financial perspective, and on finding that somehow private investment is not yet increasing, I note that it is now the right time to reform the labour market and start discussions on the new pension reform. We both know that labour market issues are extremely dynamic, because, in fact, we have only adopted one mini labour market reform in early 2013, as well as a pension reform, but it seems that reforms are somehow our constant if, of course, we want to adapt to what are global trends, if we want to respond somehow to the questions of economists who have been awaiting measures related to the lower tax burden of wages in the context of labour market reform, health and pension reform, the reduction of unreasonable administrative barriers and the disruption of systemic corruption. Without effective implementation of these reforms, we cannot count on raising the competitiveness and interest of investors; I underline the interest of investors in our country. The departures of multinationals from our country, companies competing in international markets, do not have time to deal with the restrictions imposed by the Slovenian environment. That is why, Madam Minister: When will we start a debate in the National Assembly following your initiative on labour market reform and pension reform – if we start at all, if you have this in mind? What will be the basic elements of these reforms – that is, labour market reforms and pension reforms? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you. Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr Horvath, especially for the question. Nice greeting from my fellow Members and Members of Parliament as well. First of all, thank you for knowing that it is probably the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities of one of the more sensitive sources, it is clear that every job is here, but what people feel most, and where difficulties are greatest and we are trying to realize that. However, it is also a system that probably does not allow reckless reforms, which continue and in some way inhabit people's fears. Before I give your answer, I would start with the reforms that took place in 2012, when the pension reform was adopted, and 2013 when they happened, in April the amendment to the Labour Relations Act came into force, and let us not forget that this novel, which took place in 2013, was followed by two other major amendments that completed the changes in the labour market, namely the amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black and, on the other hand, the reform of the student work which entered into force at the end of the year, was adopted. So two major reforms in 2014. With these changes, which were de facto; if you look at the level of protection of employment according to the OECD criteria, Slovenia fell from these countries with the same regulation among countries where it is essentially below the OECD average. Thus, an internationally comparable indicator shows that Slovenian legislation is not more rigid in European Union countries. This area is less so regulated by only five EU countries, which are also members of the OECD. It is also interesting that there are changes in the labour market, that we have a higher proportion of jobs for an indefinite period of time. We cannot say that only amendments to the Labour Relations Act have contributed to this, certainly because this expectation of job security has been released for an indefinite period of time, so employers are more willing to work for an indefinite period of time, but the incentives we have adopted have also contributed to this. Remember, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Labour Market Interventions, which was extended twice, 2013, 2014, where the incentive for the employment of young unemployed, under 30 years of age, was for an indefinite period, with employers having the right not to pay social contributions for two years. This has also increased the proportion of young people employed for an indefinite period of time. With this example, I want to say that we cannot look uniformly and simply say that by reducing employment security, we are certainly releasing employment. It is necessary to look at this a little bit more complex and also, in view of our space, at the scope of the abuses that occur, the chain of businesses, all of this is connected, and especially to realize that social dialogue in the field of the Constitution, if I say so, in the field of the labour market, this is the Labour Relations Act, which is so important and is still in the existing social agreement that these changes in the labour market are carried out in agreement with the social partners. As regards the effects of pension reform, it should be said that both the growth in the number of new pensioners and the overall growth in the number of pensioners were significantly lower in 2014 than in previous years. The annual growth rate for old pensioners was only 2% in 2014, compared to 4% in previous years. The rate of growth of all pensioners, i.e. not just the elderly, was 1.1%, earlier about 3%. The retirement age of new pensioners is steadily rising, and an additional pension period is also being extended, and it is also important to stop the drop in the number of new old pensioners' pensions, thereby ensuring social security. Perhaps even when the reform was under way, 2060 was expected to amount to 17.2% of GDP, in 2060 the 15.3% of GDP will be reformed, and in fact estimates that our system is sustainable up to, not only by 2020, because economic growth – not only this, but mainly the employment rate – will have a strong impact. This is how we prepare a working white book at the Ministry, and the deadline for preparation is up to 31. 12, a working group of experts where they will show not only reform to the pensioner or [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u203	Minister, your time is up. Mr. Jože Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much for these answers for now, Madam Minister. I will also say a few words further on the very need for pension reform, and I am happy if we do not speak in general that we are actually quantifying matters. In Slovenia, we are not aware that we can probably only dream of a decent pension for the current working generation. During the average working time, an employee with an average gross salary pays contributions only at a level that allows 17 years of retirement. Now the question is, who will cover the difference in the future, on average, of the underpaid contributions for the ever longer period of retirement. After €5 billion or around €5 billion of expenditure, the pension register will be held this year. Of this, a good third of the resources required already, representing around €1.7 billion, are covered by the budget and not by current contributions, and this share of the country is only growing. Today, in fact, we have a ratio of about 1.35 active populations of 1.35 workers working for one pensioner, and this ratio is dramatically deteriorating. We need actual reforms, we need measures to provide more work, we need a higher level of employment. As the minister responsible for the government's work, I believe and also expect you to know your colleagues and colleagues to believe that reforms in the labour market are urgently needed. We need to increase our competitiveness because we both know, Madam Minister, that we are actually sliding down the ladders of competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u206	The questions are very complex, and it is very difficult, when one number is proposed, to answer, but certainly they are important and we need to discuss them, so the basis of the White Paper will be at the end of the year, which will provide solutions, possible solutions, which we need to agree together on what our pension system will be after 2020, not just a pension book, and for the first time this White Paper will also have the objective of addressing the labour market issue. So we are no longer looking at just, separately, the pension system, but we are actually going to address the labour market, the issue of low employment activities over the age of 55, and you will soon get certain proposals in the National Assembly that will try to encourage employment in this category; active employment policy will be focused on these categories that are most vulnerable. Third thing. We are also interfering with European funds with the possibility for companies of ageing companies to actively enter this field by means of European funds. But the fact is, certainly, that we must achieve a higher level of work, that we must work longer, that we must contribute more, is also crucial if we are to say which forms of work are being paid for. Therefore, it has been one of the basic guidelines for a long time that each form of work counts – not only in terms of providing funds in pension and health allowance, but also in particular rights, because flexibility in the labour market is taking place. However, this should also be borne in mind when we establish a new pension change or reform. It is somehow harder to accept reform, so it is probably right to say that the system is changing and adapting so that we can have something from this system to future generations. Perhaps, however, when you mention the competitiveness of Slovenia. All of this is proposed, the burden of work, all proposed in connection with the labour law with pension. These are comprehensive issues because, above all, the Ministry of Labour is very actively involved in the umbrella group to prepare a broader tax reform, which is one of the fundamental objectives. Here inside our review of various forms of work, the heights of contributions Since you need to know that the problem of digestion, the problem of student work has also been exploited, was mainly at very different costs of work. [[…]] It is necessary to ensure a similar treatment while at the same time considering income treatment, because we have very stepwise it and, of course, the burden of work comes primarily from this title, while with contributions, we must be aware that contributions are always paid, but guarantee us future rights and should be treated differently if we still want a system of pension and disability, i.e. social insurance systems, to be based on "pay as you go", i.e. on the concept of intergenerational solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u207	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request for a debate on your response at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Minister herself said that the issue I had addressed to her was an urgent implementation of labour market reform and pension reform, that it was such a complex issue, so it was logical that I would like to take advantage of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I would suggest, yes, that I should suggest to the National Assembly that we should decide at the next meeting of the National Assembly to hold a thorough discussion on the content that we discussed with the Minister. When I talk about competitiveness, of course there is a need for legal change, for competitiveness, and for a good business environment, we also know how to attract domestic and foreign investors. I don't think we should be afraid of them, Madam Minister, I believe that they are not afraid of foreign investors and that they can or are capable of subduing anyone who would say a bad word about foreign investors, who, as I said, are already leaving because of a poor business environment with us and, unfortunately, we still have a problem with what is state property and what is private property at the beginning of the third millennium. Well, some people have a problem with what's private property. We should not, ladies and gentlemen, speak ill of a foreign investor who, just last week in the statistical region from which I come, has opened an investment worth about 25 million euros, and who has invested in the development of 1.6 billion euros in the last ten years. That is why, Madam Minister, I expect, as it is said, that you will punish your colleagues if, as happened last week, they speak ill of foreign investors. From this place, I am also taking the initiative that, perhaps as Minister of Labour, I would like to offer a written recognition or a written congratulations to all those investors who are opening up new, very important and very needed jobs in Slovenia. So, I propose and expect the National Assembly to make a positive decision in my proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u209	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mr Ivan Prelog will ask the Minister for Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u210	Greetings to all present! I ask Mr Koprivnik's Minister of Public Administration; media attention and public attention have attracted public attention in the past days a public part of the audits of the cash flows of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding in investment in TEZ 6. The Evening Officer reports that only for construction works in TES were signed by twenty-four contracts, twenty-two annexes, and issued fifty-five orders. In order to perform other services in this mega-man investment, 165 contracts and annexes and contracts related to the provision of review services, research and studies, the preparation of tender documents, investment engineering, insurance, business advice, legal and geodetic services have been concluded. In view of the above, it is not surprising that the investment from the planned budget value of €691 million from April 2006 to the 6th revised investment programme increased by 107% and €1.43 billion respectively. In order to avoid such cases in the future, it would be useful to consider different criteria for the choice of contracting entities and the system of payment of such contracts. I believe that it would be essential for the selection of a suitable contractor to take into account, in particular, the price, references and overall credibility of the operator, but also, of course, a number of other criteria allowing for the rational use of public money. The so-called key contracts are, according to experience, the farthest acceptable way of doing business through public procurement and the most prudent way of carrying out payments is in principle made-paid or paid by situation. I believe that all works should be adequately protected, as well as those in breach of the Treaties, as well as properly sanctioned. My proposal would be aimed at carrying out a model example of a project on a key, which in practice would be tested to what effect would be proposed on a more rational use of public money. I see the impact of this type of public procurement on the key in that work would be carried out more qualitatively, in a shorter time, at the optimal price and without additional costs. This would leave a lot more resources available, and I believe that this is also the purpose of the proposal for a law on public procurement, which is currently in the legislative process. I ask you: Does the new Public Procurement Act lay down the conditions or criteria for a suitable contract contractor for a key that would allow for a more rational use of public funds and ensure that projects are implemented within the agreed time frame? If that's not the case: How else does the law regulate the more rational use of public funds? With regard to my initiative following the model project on the key, I would like to ask: In what area would you say this is the easiest thing to do? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u211	Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, you have the floor to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members, colleague! I am pleased with this question of yours, especially because you have mentioned certain cases of poor public procurement that have cost this country dearly, but I must point out in this part that fundamental dilemma. The Public Procurement Act provides a framework for the transparent implementation of public procurement and in no way can it force the contracting authority to prepare a quality contract. And in these cases of repetition and dissemination of orders, I believe that there is no sole reason in the law for these increases in value, but that reason is also in the poor cooperation of the contracting authority, who led the entire contract. However, your initiative is extremely well founded. The Public Procurement Act allows different procedures, different content of the contract to be applied to various construction contracts, but the Public Procurement Act does not specify anywhere what contractual principles and contractual bases must be. This is a procedural law setting out the process for the execution of a public contract, while the content of the contract itself is, it is said, what is specifically ordered and how the contracting authority defines the subject matter of the contract, in what quality, content, quantity and quantity of the contract to be concluded on the basis of this law, and this is not defined in the Public Procurement Act, as defined in the various sectoral laws, the Bond Code, but the procurement of the key under the applicable law is fully possible. In no way does the law prevent this method of ordering from being used. It is important to set selection criteria and, as you yourself said, if we decide on a key contract, then the criteria for selection, price, references and past services in this area, which is also subject to public procurement, must be defined. Perhaps the interestingness of these amendments to the law, which we are now considering in the new work, is that we are very encouraged by innovation and, above all, very strongly introducing the choice in terms of the quality ratio: price. Not just the price ratio, but the so-called "price performance index". It is said that a price has been placed as a criterion for selection in the second plan, and in some cases the price is even prohibited as the only criterion. This is the case for engineering services which are mainly used in the field of construction works. Thus, this law is certainly a step in this direction, but once again, with the Public Procurement Act, we cannot determine the manner of the contract. However, following the Government's decision, we also have a task in our ministry, which is responsible for public procurement legislation, with the task of preparing guidelines for better execution of public procurement. These guidelines, however, can also allow us to direct contractors to what work, how certain public contracts should be prepared. In these guidelines, however, we have already foreseen in the current drafts that, above all, we would use the so-called key orders in the areas of adaptation, construction and information solutions. Because these are the tasks in which it is very easy to define the final requirement, and it is more difficult to define the whole process as to how to reach this final requirement, but it is after experience, and again on the basis of your question we have examined this, it has been found that by ordering the whole risk of carrying out the transaction – which is good – is passed on to the contractor and not partly to the contracting entity, which should eventually conclude the annex in addition to the additional works. As a rule, implementation of the key is also more expensive on the offer itself. So here we always weigh when the performance on the key is more expensive than if we carried it out by individual quantities. Of course, examples of practice teach us, as you yourself mentioned at the outset, if we just basically check what choice is for the key or for the individual stages, it is often more expensive. In practice, however, it is noted that these implementations are followed by additions and additions. Here, however, key procurement is given priority in every way and is therefore encouraged. If you have asked for specific cases, we have already carried out a number of them, but I suggest that these are areas that we can also agree on, adaptations, information solutions and new building and design together. These are the best solutions for ordering key orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u213	Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Bather Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u214	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Today I will talk mainly about the personal issue – that is, tourism management in particular. On 15 April 2015, the Development Agency of Slovenske Gorica, Regional Development Partnership of Slovenske gorica, Rural Development Society LAS Ovtar of Slovenski gorica, also on behalf of the municipalities of Benedikt, Cerkvenjak, Lenart, and in particular Sv. Anna, St. Three, St. Louis. Jurij in Slovenski gorica, also the municipality of Šentilj. sent a problem to those affected by the LAG Ovtar region of Slovenski gorica, in particular in the field of the Personal Complementary Labour Regulation, and were then asked by this letter to re-examine the legal solutions and to accept the necessary amendments to both acts. I would like to explain that this is primarily a list of works considered to be personal complementary work; in particular the work which has been unduly deleted in this Regulation – the possibility of occasional local governance in our places. It's not just about classical guidance, as you know it, as tourist guides. mainly goes in the area So farmers, masters of domestic crafts and skills, who have been known by the LAS Ovtar of Slovenian Mountains and the project of learning farms as people who have knowledge of some classical crafts that have ever been in Slovenian Gorica. [[…]] It is also about people who are somehow already in retirement, but also have knowledge in the field of, I don't know, sacral tourism, for example, in the municipality of Lenart. Let me say that in these last years in the area of the Slovenian Mountains we have opened a wonderful tourist story, on Svetin Ana's story of the incredible winegrower Postič, currently in Benedict's story – and there is also a written book – about the amazing kosol, that is, the masters of the Slovenski gorica in the field of carpentry and so on. Under this new rules on personal supplementary work, all those engaged in an activity may not continue to carry on this activity. Above all, there is a problem in the field, it says here in this letter: It is important to be aware that most of the performers of this part of the elderly who are able to perform these works only occasionally. However, some have already retired, so another form of registered activity such as Furs has now proposed, for example, a business contract or an copyright contract, is not acceptable to them. From the point of view of the contracting authority, an already invalid rule can be practically the only addition and contribution to rural work. I am talking about the particular forms through which we can carry out this activity, for them in fact, they are mostly uneconomically and overly liberal. Therefore, I ask you — and they have asked you — to reexamine this rule on personal complementary work and to somehow supplement it with their solutions. I'm asking for an answer from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u215	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Member, Mr Breznik for the question. Perhaps, before I go to the very forms of work that you have highlighted, I would still say a few words about the objectives of the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment on the Line, because the rule you are referring to is, of course, linked to this law. This law shall apply from August 2014 and thereafter on this basis from this January onwards. In fact, we share works that can be done. We're talking here about parts that are the exception to black work. We are not talking about activities, we are talking about work that is an exception to black work, and the only logic is that it divides it into two parts; so that work can be done as a personal complementary work, we divide it into two main groups. This, for the first time, depends on the type of work and on who has the obligation to purchase a value. In the first group under which the contracting authority has an obligation to purchase a valuation, the service must not be provided to a legal entity. For example, a contracting entity is a natural person who has someone who cleans up his home occasionally and temporarily through this form. This person who carries out personal supplementary work may do so only for natural persons, but not for legal persons. Why was it such a solution? It was agreed in the social dialogue when we discussed the Law on the Prevention of Work and On Employment. Why? Since, in essence, for a legal entity, where a person is cleaning for that legal entity, that legal entity has more than one possibility to conclude the occasional and temporary work of the pensioner, it may conclude a business or copyright contract, it has different options. Secondly, when an individual purchases an order itself, this is the case where he collects fruit and, of course, in these cases there are exceptions that he can also perform for legal entities. That's the basic logic. We have examined this letter because we are getting a lot of initiatives on this, so that the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent work and employment in black, which is made up of different sources, has actually taken a position, this was the session 25. 5. that the Regulation is not extended to the provision of services to legal persons. However, in the framework of the applicable Act on Prevention of Work and Employment, it may be extended to a blacklist where appropriate. In fact, the Commission’s position was adopted because I wanted to ask them because they are dealing with the problem of work and employment in black, that we are not expanding, that legal entities can do this work, but that we are discussing what kinds of work can be carried out as a personal work institution. In this regard, there will be a debate, including taking into account the social partners, because you need to know that, because I agree, this is a less administratively burdened form. Of course, if someone else is to be employed, we have different views on this. However, it is necessary to find opportunities to reduce administrative barriers. That's what we talked about at the Ministry. The amendments to the Regulation will go in the direction of extending the list of works that can be carried out. However, there is no debate at this time that this work could also be done for legal persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u217	Mr. Franz Beznik, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you very much. In fact, I'm partly satisfied because I can see that you understand the problem yourself, an emptiness that exists. If an authentic old master, who was 80 years old, can be said to be a recognized expert in the field of artificial tillage and carpentry, he has, say, one of the subscribers in one trip, i.e. a primary school, a secondary technical school and so on, he cannot do so at this point. You could've done it. You could, as she said, all the special formalization forms but see if someone does this once or twice a year, like we do in the Slovenian Gore when one group comes, but the price for this service is 40, 50 euros – all these forms are too wasteful and do not count. [[…]] That is why I would ask you, Madam Minister, to really study this record, I can also give you because there are some legal voids and people are not deciding. I can tell you what they're negotiating on the other side. They are coming So someone brings, plastically speaking, from Ljubljana someone who is taking a trip to the Holy Trinity or to the Holy Yes, who has looked somewhere on Google at some of the features of this place and leads them and also shows them a domestic trade, which is unacceptable. [[…]] For the first time there are people who are authentic acquaintances of this, who are from their territory, there are people who have very modest incomes, that's some part of income, and these people are willing to give a percentage to the state. We need to be flexible because, on the other hand, in Austria, these forms of occasional guidance are possible, very easy, and they are taken away by some small flat in the country and this is resolved. I'd like to ask you because there is a real stopping right now in the area of governance. In Slovenian Gorica we have wonderful stories that we open: we would like to promote, not only in Slovenian Goricas, sacral tourism, but also through, we can say, our famous dishes, but mainly through some domestic art trade, because it is also a precursor to some new knowledge of the school system mainly in the area of dual school system. That is why I am asking you to study – I will not ask for any debate and give it up. But I'm holding you to your word. Thank you very much for the answers, and I see, for the understanding you have.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u219	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thanks for the initiative. Basically, I agree that the system must be made so that it is not administratively too burdensome for people to have the opportunity to carry out the work they want to do legally to pay part of the country. Here, we need certain considerations within us, and above all, we have done a full tax reform, as I have explained earlier to my colleague Horvath, a review of various forms of work. In Slovenia we really have many different forms of work, which are very different, if you say, tax and social contributions are dealt with. There will be solutions to be found within the framework of tax reform and solutions need to be found that will be simple for people. One of them — I see alongside the list of works that can be done where it is necessary to be reasonable — is probably difficult for us to allow this work to be done for legal persons. Legal persons have more opportunities to employ on different forms of contracts if they are a natural person, but they do not. The basic idea of the law, however, was that the natural persons for whom it is managed, which we do not have the opportunity to conclude copyright or business, are much more difficult for us to have this institution of personal supplemental work. On the other hand, it is essential that we think more simply about the value. Here I say this criticism, which is general when we adopted the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment, was then agreed that these values would also be available through electronic commerce, not only in administrative units, unfortunately this has not yet happened. This is one of the tasks ahead of us, because in fact it is that people have to buy a value on the local competent administrative unit, very administrative and especially time-consuming people and this was not the purpose. This is how we look for options to open this option of payment through mobile applications – in short, to ensure those goals that have been. I assure you that we are studying all these initiatives, and it is also important that the Commission for the Prevention of Black Work be defined to them and that we will, within this, seek an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u221	Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers and ministers! I would like to refer the question to Mr jedan, just as it has already been raised by my colleague Dimič today, as it did to the Prime Minister of the Government. In fact, Slovenia was covered with forests about 22% of the total area 150 years ago, today covering or already increasing over 60% of the total area. In 1949, many forests were nationalized, and concessions were granted to concessionaires, mostly forest holdings, which were established mostly in 1945. Within six months, concessions will expire. A law on a state-owned enterprise is being prepared to manage forests owned by a country whose operator is the Fund of Agricultural Lands. We know that forests owned by the state are still quite well managed or cut, almost most of what is necessary, but this wood, instead of going to the domestic wood processing industry, which is almost gone, is going to export in the vast majority. We're just exporting what Mother Nature gives us. In contrast, private forest management, representing almost 80% of all areas and less than 20% of state forests, is significantly worse. It's cut very little, it's hardly worth giving people to cut wood because prices are so low. Low prices are also due to the fact that the concession is so low that it was valid, since at the beginning it was €4.6 and so far it was €14 per cubic. However, we know that concessions are also being reached in private forests, we have heard, there is a congregation of EUR 37 per cubic metre, and mostly over EUR 30. I'm curious because there's so little time, the government will adopt the law and go through the procedure: Will a timely law be adopted and all that remains with regard to the registration of this company so that this forest management can function normally? How will forest companies survive?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u223	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, honourable Member, for this matter! Just as the president of the government has already received it today. The fact is that the current twenty-year concession system in Slovenia, which is unique – i.e. when compared with a well-functioning system in Austria, in German countries and elsewhere in Finland – has proved to be less effective, particularly from an impact on the country. The country wants money from state forests so that it can be used in particular for forests. Now this system is ending. You are aware that at the beginning of this year, the Ministry has put the law into public consultation. It is true that the coalition negotiations were quite complex. The entire ministry wanted the law to be passed by the government before the parliamentary holidays, which unfortunately we did not succeed. It certainly shows that within a few days the law will be passed. This is also how we agreed on a coalition, and this assurance was somehow obtained from the President of the Government, because now he is in a serious hurry. The law itself will rule in a similar way as managed by, say, Austrian state forests or Bavarian land forests. The money that we will get from the state forest, where profit will be – part of the profit will, of course, remain for reproduction and for the normal functioning of the company, and part of the money must go to a special fund to be able to perform some other functions that the state must perform in the state and also in the private forest, so that they can actually be carried out in practice. That's how I'm still optimistic. In these very minutes, the law has the last coordination with certain ministries. There is also the possibility that this Wednesday will be adopted by the government. I would also like to say the following. So far, concessionaires do not need to worry about whether they will get a job, because we will need a workforce, we will need knowledge, we will need machines, but it is true that work in the state forest will be given to those who will be competitive. I believe that the concessionaires so far have references, knowledge and thus have a competitive advantage. The fact is that in the future we will not allow work to be in the state forest, because so far it has been more expensive or expensive than the works of the same concessionaires in the private forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u225	Mr. Bell Lah, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u226	Look, Mr. Secretary. Forest economies have about 300 to 500 employees. Now they have been awarded around 15 euros in concessions for January, 15 euros for harvesting, and some for the rest of the work in the woods, forest roads, train construction and so on. And they paid 14 euros or 13 euros, and that was difficult, given the costs they had. In private forests, however, these concessions amounted to between €30 and €37. This is said to have been significantly less recognized. Given the quantity of wood cut in the state forests and the concession-to-concession ratio, the country has been deprived in recent years of, I don't know, so many millions a year to take this to a forest employee of thousands of euros a month. Now it will be over and they will be placed on the market, together with the operators of neighbouring countries, where they have a huge, I don't know, with private companies providing these services. I wonder, ‘ How can they suddenly make such a leap? Look what happened. The country only cares for those poor 20% of the state forests and for the other 80% as if it does not care. He was an acorn, now he's a usher, he's doing a lot of damage, and because he hasn't cut himself in private forests, we don't have the potential to fix it quickly. This damage will only be greater. I want to know: When this day comes, how will the concessionaires so far function?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u227	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u228	The crisis at the agglomeration has shown that despite all of this Slovenian forestry area is well organised. To this point we have removed more than two thirds of the damaged tree and believe me, we have compared, we have learned from others, we have learned from the great practices of such agglomerations and we are simply better than others. Many others have been recovering this kind of damage for 10 years, and even then, let's say, if we look at a very large country, they haven't finished it all. In fact, I have to say hello professionally and also operationally in the Slovenian forests, as can be seen from the quantity. In the final phase, last year there were 6.3 million cubic meters, of which an important part of the damaged tree was removed. This year, too, we are likely to approach five million cubits, which is the second best intervention in history, even in Slovenia, since we recorded the intervention. As far as the calls are concerned, who gets the job? Clearly, experience will be taken into account, taking into account the acquired competences that Slovenian operators have – similarly taking into account everywhere else and thus allowing domestic people to get a job. You must understand, however, that under no circumstances can the State afford to allow the same organisations to sell their work and knowledge to the State under certain conditions, and under some more favourable conditions to private owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u229	Mr Zvonko Lah, you have the floor to make a procedural request for a debate on your question to be held at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I would use this business opportunity to discuss this in Parliament because the matter is so hot. We also have little time, and perhaps this could contribute to better coordination. In fact, we have over 100 employees at the Agricultural Land Fund, which operates other agricultural land besides forests, and we have seven hundred employees at the Forestry Institute, and we have a Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which has a forest name only, does not have an inside job, which is also paid by the State, and one army of experts on the ground has very poor management. I'm not saying that only with state forests, but with all the general forests, more private than state forests. But it's all ours, it's in Slovenia, and we should try to make the forests manage better. On the other hand, we have poor self-care. We are the country that we have — among the least — the area of agricultural food production per inhabitant, and the country is growing. What we have most is forest, wood, and we export. We are exporting the raw material and back to our woodworking industry, as far as we still have it, is importing the semi-manufactured products from our timber that we are taking out. This is not going anywhere, I am afraid, on the basis of the fact that we will take care of the state company I welcome that the state will receive more money, because the Agricultural Land Fund also has a lot of obligations to the denationalised people, because the concessionaires at the time when their forests were nationalised, the state cut so much wood that it has to pay compensation now because they sued them. [[…]] In the present case, it was shown that the records were not so accurate that the owners reached, through experts, that there was significantly more deforestation in their forests than the state record, and no one shivered at that. I doubt that's settled now because we don't have a description of how much wood is in the woods, how much wood it grows on the floor every year, so we can control how much it takes out. We don't have that. We only have a record of how many roads they cut. Is that right or wrong? I'm afraid there's some connection between the Forest Department, Mr., and the Agricultural Land Fund, where one way or another. It would be difficult to keep track of the amount if you were at home. That's why I think it's time for this to be settled and the state to treat its assets differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u231	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2015. Mr Igor Zorčič will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u232	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister and both ministers! Mr Minister, recently on the anniversary of the first year of the government's operation, you pointed out that negotiations were successfully held in 2014 and an agreement was reached with the social partners on wage and remuneration measures for public sector employees in 2015. In 2015 you also carried out an analysis of the implementation of the payroll system, all from the beginning and a public examination of the proposal for systemic changes in the salary system was also carried out, i.e. the Public Sector Wage System Act. In 2015, at least as far as you can see from the media, you are awaiting intense negotiations on public sector wages, and you will certainly be affected by the change in the pay system, which I mentioned a little earlier, namely the Public Sector Wage System Act, in addition to the financial frameworks or budgetary frameworks. So I'm interested in: What is your principled view of the wage system in the public sector? What are the starting points for dialogue with representative public sector unions? I also want to know: What are your messages based on an analysis of the situation I mentioned earlier? How do you see the pay system in the future? What steps have you already taken in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u233	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you, Madam President, for the question, honourable Member. Let me start from the general to the concrete. If you want basic guidelines, fundamental principles, I would define them this way. We want to move from job definition to work definition, which must actually be done. In order to come from Senior Automatisms, which bring higher awards, to a career system in which you occupy a higher job with work, and in particular to move from the basis of the pay coming from the workplace to the criteria that will determine how much a worker actually gets the basis for payment, and to introduce a competitive model. These are the very general starting points we're going in. You mentioned negotiations with the unions. At this very time, there is also a meeting of the negotiating group to which I am returning, and you can rightly see that the negotiations are extremely boisterous. It is extremely gruesome because it is difficult, as I would say, to curb the appetites of increasing costs resulting from different promises and normative foundations in recent or multi-annual discussions with trade unions, but we need to put ourselves in what is our legal framework. This is defined by the fiscal rule, which provides for a social agreement that specifies exactly how much we can increase wages. That is why these negotiations are even more difficult because expectations are significantly higher. The analysis also shows that the cost of working in the public sector in Slovenia is above the average of the European Union compared to the gross domestic product. It is interesting, however, that in recent years the cost of public administration has fallen by about 8% to 9%, while in the wider public sector it has remained virtually unchanged. So, wage reserves or reserves, if they still exist in wages, actually exist in the wider public sector. The analysis shows that years ago, or years ago, we set ourselves up for the purpose of a revised salary system in order to be uniform in order to properly define the relationship between different jobs and to be flexible and stimulating. We note from this analysis that we successfully managed to maintain a single pay system, that there is still some sort of regulation, although within the system there is a whole series of anomalies, particularly the J-group, and partly the B-group, directors. However, when we are talking about flexibility and the incentive of the pay system, we have completely missed the goals because, basically, such a system as it was set up does not actually work in practice. For this reason, the aim is primarily to set up a deregulation, which means that the chairman will have a greater opportunity to reward his fellow workers, but not by discretion, but on the basis of criteria with regard to the achievement of the objectives defined and in view of the achievement of the project tasks that each worker has received. This criterion is particularly demanding because it is a condition for it to define objectives. If the targets are not defined, then we cannot measure. We also need to define these objectives together with the trade union side, because they need to be partly dependent on the work plan of an authority, and partly depend on a particular professional group to be told about, let's say when a successful doctor separates from a less successful, when, I don't know, if you want, a successful administrative officer from a less successful unit. These criteria cannot be the same for everyone. And here's the basis for dialogue with trade unions. This also leads us to greater flexibility and not least to greater motivation for workers. For today, I think that in the most discriminatory situation, the most decent workers are, because they do not actually notice this on their payroll in great favour, and I would like to gradually exceed this by measuring the results of the work. Another or another important direction we want to defend is to reduce automation, especially today we have automaticism in terms of progress, working age, and a permanent allowance. We would like to reduce these automatisms and use this savings to a greater extent to reward on the basis of the results achieved. However, at this time, as you yourself said, we have already prepared amendments to the Public Sector Wage System Act. The Law on Public Servants, which introduces a competent model, eliminates titles, introduces a re-examination, I don't know, draws closer or closer to the Labour Relations Act and even a number of other things. This is how we want to gradually translate this into real daily practice as much as possible in the negotiations with the unions. In the negotiations, however, we want negotiations to be organised and a narrow negotiating group negotiated with another narrow negotiating group with a mandate to conclude an agreement. This is a fundamental difference in negotiations that are becoming relatively irregular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u235	Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister of Culture of Mags a question. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar and Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, Madam Secretary! We all know that today's situation requires particular attention and rationality in budget planning. In any event, it is necessary to provide funds to those individuals and households which depend on their existence. It is also necessary to provide funds for investments, maintenance of existing facilities and implementation of various programmes at both local and national level. As a member of the National Assembly on this occasion, I express my concern about the increasing financial cuts in cultural cakes, which is the budget of the Ministry of Culture. I share my fears with various representatives of cultural institutions, NGOs in the field of culture, self-employed people in the field of culture, trade unions, representatives of the PEN, society of writers, not least the National Council for Culture, but I could probably also mention, which all together points to the increasingly deteriorating situation of Slovenian culture, of course, and thank God only in financial terms. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Will we be able, regardless of the circumstances, in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017, to ensure such an amount of resources so that there is no need to squander programmes, to close the doors of cultural institutions; in one word, that our country will not have to face a cultural eclipse and thus irreversible cultural consequences in the long term? In my opinion, investing in culture and preservation of cultural heritage is a number of positive effects on other areas as well; on the economy, in particular on tourism with the nobleness of Slovenian tourist offer and the approximation of cultural goods to individuals both within Slovenian space and beyond. Not at all, not at all, not at all, not at all, not at all. In addition, we must not lose sight of the importance and role of culture as a segment that has ensured and ensured the preservation of our national and cultural identity for the Slovenes and Slovenes. I thank you both very much for the answers together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u237	I give my word to the Minister of Culture, Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. Honourable Minister, President, other Members and Members of Parliament! Let me first say that today is an international day of peace. On this occasion, allow me to congratulate everyone sincerely. Let me point out that we have not preserved the Slovenian nation with repressive organs or weapons, but with feathers, this is our culture. Also the Communication from the National Council for Culture, which was a protest meeting this time with all these actors and others mentioned by you, honourable Member, is that culture must be placed among the priority areas of the Government. I want it very much myself, and I hope that this will happen during the course of this government's rule. It is true that at the end of September 2014, when the ministry was taken over, the year was in an extremely difficult financial position as at the end of 2012, I received a 22 million lower integrated budget, while at the same time we were without a priority investment in the area of culture from which we could draw non-refundable European resources. This is also why, after this budget meeting, I sincerely thank all those who have contributed to the tangible shape of the cultural budget. Although it's still not what we kind of want. I am aware that resources will have to be handled with care and that savings will also be needed, which we will also try to mitigate with European funds. In doing so, I also have to thank Karl Erjavac, Vice-President of the Government, also the Minister of Finance, for ensuring that in the budget until the budget meeting of the National Assembly – that is to say, to ensure 2016, this is also the personal guarantee of Dr. Marble, Minister of Finance, that 151 million EUR 500 000 for culture and 155.630 million for 2017. I know it's gonna be hard, but we're gonna make it through this. In addition to cultural, artistic reasons, that is to say, which you have already mentioned, the reasons for strengthening the national identity and self-esteem of Slovenians and the important reason for knowing and respecting our own culture, that we can finally have intercultural dialogue and respect for foreign cultures, culture also has significant economic effects, both on added value, positive impact on employment, here are other multipliers of cultural activities, so special attention should be given to this area. I have to stop if I want to give the Minister of Finance something to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr. Dusan Marble, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u240	Thank you very much. These budget allocations at the Ministry of Culture are indeed declining globally in 2016 compared to 2015. The reason for such a reduction is that the period of eligibility of European Cohesion Policy expenditure over the 2007-2013 programming period ends this year. The main problem in 2016 and beyond is that the new financial perspectives for European funding for culture are significantly more limited. From this point of view, we have tried to compensate, as far as possible, within this integral part of the budget, this stable funding, and we have therefore increased the funds in 2016 from this integral part by 6.4 million and 2017 by 7.1 million, by 4.7% in 2015 and 5.3 in 2017. We are aware of the importance of culture and have done everything in fact that in 2017, if drawing is of course appropriate, everything that is available will be practically at the same level of budget as in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u241	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I practically don't need any more explanations. If I have understood both ministers correctly, it may be a little strange that I have included the Minister of Finance, but I have found that it makes sense, that I also ask the Minister of Finance in this area. If I have correctly understood both speakers, both of whom have answered this question, of course never and never will be as much on culture as probably on all other resources as the responsible, so the minister said, but now it is too much, and now it is really so much as we need. There's always a tolar or some euro too small. But, as it is said, if I properly understood, with appropriate cultural policy, with an appropriate way of working, saving, rational conversion of every euro in the cultural field, it ensured that the programmes would normally be implemented, that there would be no drastic cuts, no fear, those who care about culture and cultural events, in order to close the temples of Slovenian culture, and I believe that in this belief and with this thinking we can take, at least as far as culture is concerned, into a peaceful financial year, both 2016 and 2017. Once again, to all those who have cooperated to ensure that culture is not affected by this, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u243	The Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor, wishes to provide a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u244	Because I'm running out of time, but I'm gonna take this chance. Perhaps for short information only; Slovenia gives an exceptional importance to culture, if we look at internationally comparable data, we are from the EU countries, the latest data are from 2013, which are comparable, in fourth place, to the share we devote to culture; and this is 60% above the average in EU countries. However, we are first in the field of media and state funding for the media. Of course, the average is 0.1, but we're at 0.4, so it's four times higher. That is how we actually allocate important resources to culture. Of course, we understand that the importance of culture for the self-determination of the nation is extremely great. This is in line with our direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u245	The Minister for Culture mag will also provide an additional reply. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you so much for this opportunity. I must say that these statistics have identified shortcomings in the collection of the data we have identified. When it comes to the media, it is also necessary to say what is being sent to the European level, that contributions are included. This is what RTV Slovenia's RTV contributions are called, and they account for almost 80% of that amount. They do not have this amount in their budget. In addition, other shortcomings, such as culture, include market activities, including admissions, such as those obtained by public institutions. In this way, it is difficult to compare international comparisons in this area, so that these data must, of course, be cleared, including for us when it comes to the SURS data. There we find that there are also gambling within, which means that we also have to clean this part when we want to get anything out, let's say what's added value. However, we can say that in 2014, the added value, estimated added value, for the culture area was almost a billion euros, which means that the contribution of culture to the added value and that even from this economic point of view, is also said to those who have less hearing for other values, even the economic value of culture is very important. So I believe that from year to year we will improve this behavior so much that in the end we will do what will trigger economic growth, which will trigger employment and culture can be very important here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u247	Ms Eva Irgle will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! Last Wednesday or Wednesday we discussed the European Court of Human Rights report in this National Assembly in your absence. We were talking about human rights violations in the judiciary. Of course, this extraordinary meeting was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, particularly because we are actually concerned about the findings of the European Court of Human Rights, which, inter alia, say that Slovenia is the first since human rights violations between all European countries. At the same time, the European Commission notes that Slovenia has one of the lowest levels of perceived independence of justice in the European Union, and only Greece, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia are behind us, and it is necessary to know that these countries have an increasing trend in independence in relation to the previous year, while Slovenia has a declining trend. It is certainly alarming data, given that we have the highest number of judges in our country on the one hand and the lowest number of perpetrators on the other hand, then I think we should do much more in this area in order to avoid human rights violations in justice. Now, Mr. Secretary, I would like to ask you: When are you actually going to go to the full reform of the judiciary? Not only in some cosmetic corrections, as we have witnessed with some laws, but in fact in the reform of the judiciary, where it will be clear that those who violate human rights in judicial proceedings will have to answer for this too. For the last time, I said that since 2008, it is true that we have this criminal provision, which in some way penalises those who have violated human rights or have committed mistakes, but so far this provision has never been applied. I want to know: Why has it never been used before? How will you ensure that systemic legal solutions are effectively held accountable by those who violate human rights in judicial proceedings? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u249	I give my word to the Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Member Eva Irgle, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It's true, you discussed this last Wednesday. I was away. I know you missed me, especially some of your Members, which they also made clear and talked about me opening up roads in Primorje. You said I was playing basketball. I would love to — I couldn’t. For I was the host of the President of the Swiss Confederation, who is also the Minister of Justice, and this was the reason for my absence. However, to pay great attention to this issue and to my respect for this assembly and these questions, I believe that I have, however, taken part in the preliminary Committee on Justice on the same subject. That's the first thing. The next thing you can see is because these questions are repeatedly repeated and I look in a similar way. [[…]] We look out the window and we all see it raining outside. It's raining outside. Now you're always saying it's not raining. You say it's a tsunami, it's a storm, it's a snowstorm. Some in the judiciary say no, no rain falls, the sun shines; and this is a key problem. In Slovenian justice, it rains, not the sun shines, but there is no storm. And as long as we talk about these two extremes, no Justice Minister will be able to do much, because you see the tsunami, some see the sun, and in fact the rain falls. And even through your question, that turned out to be true. Firstly, the European Commission, after the last Justice Scoreboard, which we have talked about on several occasions, is the fact that people's perception of the independence of justice has declined. This is due to the politicisation of a particular process. Otherwise, you can't convince me. At the same time, the same Commission, which issued this recommendation, highlighted Slovenia as the only positive case in this recommendation as an example of a reduction in judicial backlog and a case of so-called presidential panels. Again, the difference between the sun and the storm is, in fact, a situation somewhere in between. The same applies to statistics on the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Last time your colleague here broke my secretary of state: a lie, a lie, a lie. Your Honor! As an insult to the Slovenian country, I take the situation where you claim that Slovenia is the biggest human rights violation in the Council of Europe because it is not. You've taken the data from a website that even San Marino would still be in front of us. If you have looked – and I believe you have enough professional colleagues to prepare this for you – the latest report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 9. 9. 2015 respect for the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. In this report, the Committee identified the essential problems and highlighted 9 countries which have a human rights problem from the point of view of the ECHR. These countries are in the following order: Turkey, the Russian Federation, Italy, Ukraine, Romania, Greece, Poland, Hungary and Bulgaria. There is no Slovenia. The Slovenian violations of human rights by mass are the same as the problem of the judiciary or, more than the problem of the judiciary, the problem of the assembly, the problem of politics. That's what we've been talking about, and you've been talking about it in an open session. The biggest human rights violations identified by the ECHR have been deleted, they have been savers of the New Ljubljana Bank and are a problem of prisons. Nothing about the judiciary in this part belongs, which does not mean that the situation is fully satisfactory. Even before this case came out, as we said at the Justice Committee, the government had already adopted amendments to the Law on State Administration in 2014, where the Ministry of Justice had authorized the establishment of a central, substantial greater harmonisation in this area in the field of representation and enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and with the budget adopted yesterday in the Government, and I believe that it will also be confirmed in Parliament, we have also been given this opportunity. I believe you'll complete the question and we'll have another chance to talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u251	Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, Mr Klemenčič, until now I thought you were the Minister of Justice, now I see that you are more of a timer, but probably also because of this situation as you have described it, we have such a situation in justice. You have not answered me with a clear concrete question why a criminal provision that has been in force since 2008 has never been applied to the responsibility of judges. You have not answered this particular question and I want you to answer it. I also asked you about the comprehensive reform of justice, not only with cosmetic corrections. I didn't get that answer either. As for the European Court of Human Rights and the report, I would also like you to answer the following questions. You said at the meeting of the Justice Committee on 9 September 2015 that Slovenia does not have any infringements of Article 2 of the Convention throughout the whole period, this is the right to life, but then it turned out that this is not the case. Now I don't know if you cheated at the time or if you don't have all the information. The ECHR unanimously ruled that Slovenia had violated Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is the right to life, due to the lack of effective legal procedures to determine the cause of death and responsibility, a well-known case of Shilih, which lasted many years with us, and then concluded in the European Court of Human Rights. So: How do you comment on that? I am interested, given that you have now said again, and also on the Committee on Justice, you said that the ECHR is deceiving statistics, I am interested in: As Minister, will you, in order to protect the integrity of both the judiciary and our countries, give any objection to the European Court of Human Rights, given that you claim that this information is not the same as that recorded here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u253	Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u254	Thank you for your word and welcome to the president! Your Honor, let's get out of here. It's Shilih. No, I didn't cheat, I didn't lie, I didn't lie, I didn't have the wrong data. You've got these. I met the Shilih family myself. The case is tragic in all respects and I would not abuse it for political purposes, although I know that Mrs Shilih was also amazed at my statement, and she wrote to me about it and I answered her. In the Shilih case, it was not a violation of article 2 of the Convention, read even the judgment, but it was a violation — as you said at the end — of the violation of article 2 of the right to life. This violation is if the police, the military, kill someone. In connection with 13 Without legal basis and this has happened in many countries: in Turkey, the Russian Federation – never in Slovenia – even England in the case of Irish terrorists. [[…]] This was a violation of the right to an effective investigation into a violation of Article 2. You may find these legal nuances irrelevant, but they're important. They are also important from the point of view of the European Court of Human Rights, because it does not go in the same direction as the violation of the human rights of the Russian Federation in Georgia or Turkey in Kurdistan with this matter. And that's what you do. And that's another thing when you say that in my implementation I said that the ECHR is deceiving. We're back in time. You see it out of the snow again, though it's obvious it's just raining. I never said that the ECHR cheated. I said that your claims, instead of going to look at the original statistics at the ECHR, are based on some non-governmental organisation website that was set up to lobby for the United Kingdom not to step out of the Council of Europe, which is now one of the political mantras of the conservative government in London. Next thing, criminal provisions. You know the division of power. As Justice Minister, I don't press charges, I don't press charges. Why it didn't happen, ask a written question, we'll go to the D.A. and see what the answer is. I don't know what you're imagining under full reform for justice. Except for the lustration, nothing would be satisfactory for you. We have received a clear commitment from the Council of Europe, from the European Commission, to continue reforms in justice, but justice is not about fire and sword. This started in 45, in some way, but here I think we stand in the same position that none of us agree with, and justice is not about fire and sword. Some serious reform in the sense of fire and sword from me until I am Minister, you will not experience and hope, even if you are ever in the government, that you will not do so. Because the judicial branch of power is not being undermined in its own [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u255	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I usually ask Members of Parliament questions to Mr Klemenčič. It's lucky I'm not setting him up today. Given the degree of his excitement, one would fear for his life. My question is addressed to Mr jedan. We are lucky, however, that we do not have a finance minister here, because then he would be put at risk by the information I am about to give. I have asked the Minister of Agriculture, which I do not normally ask questions from Members of Parliament, the following question: How much of the planned funding for the representativeship of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food for 2015? What was the consumption of those funds during the period from 1 January 2015 to 30. 6. 2015? What was the consumption of those funds during the period 1. Seven to 18. Nine? I ask for separate and common data, integral funds, earmarked funds, EU funds and EU funds. Why did I do that? I asked the government what it was like to use a representative. I think that, as former Minister, I have every moral right to point out that at the level of the resources spent on representation, I was probably one of those who spent the least. Approximately 10% of what my predecessor, Mrs Kresalov, spent. I have a part of the minister's response. I don't have a part of the answer. Minister, you planned for 2015, this year, €36 000 429 per team. In the first six months, you spent 57 thousand 581. So, 36 and something you planned, 57 you spent. At the same time, we have, on the other hand, the Ministry of the Interior with 8,000 police officers, there are leaders such as the director of the Ljubljana Police Administration, such as the director of the Maribor Police Administration, who have 2,000 or more employees; and they do not have one euro to represent themselves. One euro. 13,000 euros was planned by the minister, spent 3,000 euros — extremely rational. Extremely rational. This also applies to you, the President of the National Assembly, or to the National Assembly. The National Assembly as a whole has planned 70,000, spent 24,000. Well, it's not just a matter of presidents. We all know there's a lot of other people and there's a lot of stuff going on here. In short, Minister, I was disgusted when I saw those numbers. The numbers are a fact. Like I said, 36 planned, used up 57 grand in six months. I'm interested in the reasons, where and why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u257	Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u258	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I also thank you, Mr Gorenak, for this question. Even when I saw the use of a representative in the media, and then some comments are included, and I know about why we use, at least I thought I knew why we use a representative at the Ministry – that people who come from all over Slovenia for their expenses mostly get coffee, tea or water and that we should have lunch or dinner with foreign ministers or delegations when they come; what does this number mean. You have asked me a few questions and I am very happy to be able to answer, although I have always had the information that the cost of representation for the ICGP is shorter, 6 000 and several euros; not 57 000 euros. But on the basis of this question, I will be able to answer you. The Ministry planned for the entire ministry in 2015 EUR 36 000 429 on the representation sub-committee, of which EUR 17 000 429 and EUR 19 000. The Ministry did not plan for the Rural Development Programme, as never before on this item, general promotions; it did not plan for material costs. I'll tell you why later. What was the actual consumption? The actual consumption of integrated resources was 30,000, I speak for half a year, of which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Long-Term Nutrition represented 6 000 380 euros. Then what wasn't planned happened. You know that last November Slovenia was visited by a very strong 150-member Chinese delegation with a very strong political team at the level of the Vice-President of the Chinese Government. In the back was an invitation from the Vice-President of the Slovenian Government, i.e. my invitation. The cost of this visit came to our ministry of EUR 8 000 310. On the inside, €11 000 978 has been written for the Berlin Fair. The Ministry has been funding our companies, ministries, farms, tourist farms for many years to participate in the die Grüne Woche. It's the biggest fair, 500 thousand visitors. Part of these costs were posted on the team, although I don't know why; but it happened. So that's it. There was a visit to China and a fair in Berlin – 11 000 978. 2 000 414 were used for the purpose. The rural development programme, which must also have a promotion of the rural programme, spent slightly less than €25 000 in the first half of this year for promotion. What were the funds used since 1. Seven to 18. Nine? On the integral resources of a good two thousand euros, dedicated funds 7 thousand 167, this is a project by Macedonia. [[Incomprehensible]] This is about aid, which is 100% funded, part of this assistance, when our experts then do useful things with foreign experts, and this has also been written, even though this is 100% refunded; and from the Rural Development Programme, EUR 000.600. [[Incomprehensible]] Jehovah’s Witnesses, 1 / 1 1. to 18. 9. is €65 000, total €32 000, dedicated €6 000 500, EU funds 19 000 899 and within the EU, i.e. the Rural Development Programme is still 6 000 633. I would also like to say that simply looking back at data, the Rural Development Programme is also because it simply does not include a general sub-total General Promotion. He used to book on an account of 4020, but he didn't book on a sub-account, because he can also cover himself from the accounts. However, when the costs were incurred, all these costs were written on the expenses of the representative, because there is no sub-contract which has the term General Promotion. I have to say that at the time – not when we got your question, but when we detected this number in the media – we looked at the system. The result will also be that we will require an additional sub-contract to appear. The fact is, things have been posted on the team that could be posted on the General Promotion that is being carried out; the Ministry has been promoting, as far as the Berlin Fair is concerned, for many years. Everyone thinks she's a success, but she's also been posted to the national team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u259	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a supplement on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u260	Thank you very much. All well and good, Mr. Minister, we've come from 57 to 65 now, which means it's from 1:00. To date, around €7 000 has been spent. I'm not interested in those fairs, I'm not interested in the Chinese, I'm not interested in anything, I'm interested in the number. In fact, I've had fairs as a minister, and every minister has a fair somewhere, probably everyone. Every minister has a foreign delegation. The problem that the Slovenian government has in my opinion – and I intend to continue with these activities and parliamentary issues – is that we have on the one hand a ministry that costs enormously and on the other hand ministries that are poor in very few days. I don't know how Mr. Restoring is paying as an economic minister who has 5,000 300 euros for the whole year, for example. How does he, or does he not go to any fair, or how does he look? I know what it was like with me, I know I was ordering money myself, because I didn't have the face to have the police chiefs in front of me, and I called them myself, so I'm sorry. The police director, therefore, was called to Ljubljana. Yeah, what? Pay up. Money out and pay, there's a cafeteria there and buy it, because we have a system like that. And that's a system that's not good. Minister, I've recalculated a little bit, that's 104 minimum wages, by the end of the year it'd be 208, if you keep doing that. That's 822 scholarships, by the end of the year there'll be a thousand 644, that's 287 farm pensions. By the end of the year, you'll be making 574, if that's how it goes. Minister, look, delegations: 9 thousand 596 had lunch here in the National Assembly. Six euros' worth of what we're paying downstairs. You've got a thousand 533 employees, you've paid everybody 6.25 lunches, and by the end of the year, everyone will have 12,50 lunches if you continue. I don't accept that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u261	Mag. Indeed, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u262	Nevertheless, I would like to clarify the exact details as well. During all this period, there were €8,000 represented at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and within this was an exhibition site of 150 square metres for the promotion of Slovenian food, not a visit by the Minister and the Ministry at the German Fair; and this was paid by the Ministry. Organisation of exhibition space to promote Slovenian food. On the inside, if you look at it, it's 25,000 not lunch, but promotions of the Rural Development Programme. However, I said that this year, as in previous years, there was a material cost in the general account, because there is simply no subtotal General Promotion. What we now see is that you should be, also because of similar things in the future. And however we turn, last year Slovenia experienced one of the biggest visits by the Chinese delegation in order to promote the Slovenian economy in Slovenia, 150 of which were 20 or 30 politicians, the rest were economists. The costs were thus determined. However, since I have this luck or luck that I am Vice-President of the Government, and I myself have been signed under that invitation, the costs have come to the Agriculture Ministry. Whether it is justified that we have invested 8 000 euros in visiting the Chinese delegation, while on the other hand we expect more 100 million exports to be increased, each has to assess; but these are not lunches. This is the organisation of a visit for a whole group of logistics costs of 150 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u263	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I've only talked about it, Minister, any way you're taking numbers now. The figures are clear – €57 000 581. Amen, over, Schluss. Here is the signature – the Secretary-General of the Government, I have to believe him, because he is yours, because he is not mine. That's one. Second, when I was talking about lunches, I was just this number 57 thousand euros and I was dividing something by 6, which was the price of lunch down here. Apparently, it's a luxury parliamentary lunch, half-free, they say, or how. I don't know, but you all know what it looks like, but it doesn't matter. How do I justify this additional request for discussion? The Prime Minister of the Government had the planned 38 000 euros, he spent 17. Don't say I'm praising any of our ministers now; I can't do ours because we don't have them. President of the Government of 38 – used 17. The president of the National Assembly, here I am, doesn't like me at all, we're politically at odds; 70,000, spent 24. What do you want me to read to him? Correct. And the Members walk around, and he walks around, and I don't know where he's been, even in China, if I'm not wrong. I mean, it doesn't matter. Mostly, you walk around the world a lot, but this is consumption, I don't know what to say, baby. Home Secretary, she's not my friend at all, she's spent 3,000 euros. It's as short as 300 gods. A cross like 300 gods, let him give a little representation to someone else then. And Mr. Restschek EUR 5,000 300. There's something else you need to say. Ladies and gentlemen, MZZ – EUR 517 000. It's run by a gentleman who's head of pensioners, or whatever, or runs a pensioner. He's already spent 412 minimum wages. There'll be 900 by the end of the year. He spent a thousand 140 farm pensiones by the end of the year there will be 2,000 280. He's already spent 86 thousand lunches here in the National Assembly. So we have a situation, a President, whereby we have people on one side who, if you take everything, we have a planned million 500 000 euros for all the nationals, in the courts and with everything. [[…]] In short, I am still convinced of one thing that it is necessary here to reach out to the finance minister and tell him what he is and how many he will have, and that we have a hierarchy from the president of the country, Parliament, then the government and so on with all those specialities. In short, I can't accept it on the one hand because I know I've been in the police since 1974. Since I've been there, I've never heard what an "r" is since the team. I didn't know that. And I was the boss at a number of levels, and I never had anything; to the secretary of state where I offered — nothing. In short, I hereby substantiate that this debate is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u265	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2015. But I'm going to allow myself to do something with it. I would like to commend you for the accuracy of the issue, which could also be followed by your colleagues in the parliamentary group, where sometimes the preparation of ministers is a little easier. Now Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u266	Mr President, Madam Secretary, thank you for your input. Dear fellows! In times of crisis, young people have proved to be one of the more vulnerable social groups, which the country must pay particular attention to. One of the more successful programmes aimed at young people aged 15 to 25 who for various reasons have left school in the labour market, and because of their lack of experience they are more difficult to work with, the project learning programme was for younger adults – PUM. It has proved to be an excellent example of the prevention programme for the social inclusion of smallpox and young unemployed. The problem has recently arisen since the implementing organisations of the programme are since 1. Seven. 2015 without signed contracts with the country to finance the programme, although the school year has already begun. Executives and users of the program face uncertainty, which media have also been alerting us to in recent days. According to previous data, the implementation of the programme has helped to obtain education or employment for more than 400 young people who fall out of the educational process due to various causes. Madam Minister, I ask you the following questions: Why was there a delay in the validation process? When will the contracts between operators and the country be signed, allowing for the further implementation of the successful programme?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u267	Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u268	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. PUM is definitely a good program. We are in the area of the problems of smallpox between the better countries within the European Union, and we have a much smaller problem than in other European countries. PUM, as you said, Project learning for young people, was developed in the previous financial perspective, in the period 2007-2013 it also had financial coverage, and by July 2013 the measure was financed by the Ministry of Education, Education and Sport. With the end of the contract in 2013, the Ministry of Education had no money, at the Ministry of Labour we tried to find funds within its sources of active employment policy in order to ensure the continuation of the project. This indicates that we have worked hard all the time, and these treaties have had the full financial perspective as far as possible. The fact is that our country has received an approved operational programme at the end of last year, which is the basis for the preparation of implementation plans or if I say shorter INOP. The operational programme, endorsed by the European Commission, is now in fact the basis for us to take decisions on the allocation of resources to individual programmes within the priority axes. The project you are referring to, PUM, falls within the ninth priority axis, into the area of the target, I think, two or three, which is not yet harmonised. Therefore, an INOP has not yet been adopted by the government to distribute funds because there are several programmes under this objective. This is expected to happen in September or October. And this is a prerequisite for us to initiate the tender procedure and then on the basis of this signing of contracts. Unfortunately, we can't skip any of these stages. The fact is that the SVRK is also responsible for the preparation of the INOP for submission to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We then accept it there in the government, then send it to the authority, the SVRK confirms the role; when the SVRK confirms the role, the instrument, we can go – individual ministries can tender. PUM, we have made it clear to operators that we recognize it as a programme to be co-financed within Programme 9, where we are talking about social inclusion, because it is a matter of course and it is certainly appropriate for this target group. That's it. Unfortunately, it will still have to be tolerated, but it is not an easy option at this point. However, perhaps when the question is, however, pointed out that you need to be aware that the financial perspective is running out, it is over, there is no basis for funding further. The new financial perspective, we have different objectives within the IP, we have learned something from the previous financial perspective, so it is not possible to expect that all programmes, just all projects, will continue to exist within the new financial perspective. We're trying to find options, we're negotiating, but things aren't given in advance that because I was co-financed in the previous financial perspective, I'm going to be in advance. That's what I'm trying to say, because these pressures are very high on all sides. PUM has been assessed, it has also been an example of good practice, we have presented PUM within the European Commission to other Member States as an example of good practice. It's not a good case, but I wanted to use this place to do that. There'll be calls, we'll talk, a lot of synergies on nine. On this ninth, at social inclusion, several ministries are involved in the creation of programmes, for example for vulnerable groups, where we have agreed on culture, health, our ministry and education, that we will jointly prepare comprehensive programmes for the Roma, that we will not, for example, happen to each of us in our own way; and there is no linkage. And now it is precisely this time that we are trying to agree on the content and find the optimal synergies effects, so that the money we have from European funds will be optimally devoted primarily to the content that gives results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u269	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u270	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble! I would like to ask you a question about the tax debt in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the latest available data or data on day 30. 6. 2015 amounts to a total debt of EUR 401 million, of which EUR 777 million is an active debt and a conditional debt of EUR 623 million. Since Slovenia has little more than 8 billion annual revenues in the budget, I personally estimate that this is a fairly important and high number. This represents significantly more than 10% of annual revenue, or this total tax debt figure is already approaching 20% of the annual budget revenue. Given the stability of public finances, I think it is more important that the Government or the Ministry of Finance try to recover this debt in some way, or that the debt that has come to the country would actually and honestly come into the budget. I want to know: What measures has the Government of Mira Cerar or the Ministry of Finance taken in one year of your rule in this area? What measures does the Government of Mir Cerar, or the Ministry of Finance, intend to take to recover the tax debt? As I mentioned at the outset, on day 30. 6. amounts to €401 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u271	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pogačnik, Commissioner, I will go directly to the answers. The measures taken so far in the area of tax debt reduction are first of all changes in the organisation of tax debt recovery and the human resources enhancement of FURS. Some of the synergies between Durs and CURS in FURS and something else. A consistent and faster introduction of the recovery procedure. Thirdly, the procedures for non-formal warning of the debtors; fourthly, the acceleration of appeals procedures in the field of enforcement and; five, softer activities to promote voluntary payment of taxes, such as the Taxation of Youth Project, the publication of publications with information on how to pay taxes, the media publication and so on. These were the measures that have been taken so far. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 14. 5. adopted a holistic plan of projects in the tax area, in which it committed itself to preparing and adopting a series of measures in terms of reducing administrative barriers to the fulfilment of tax obligations and increasing the efficiency of the collection of public duties and in terms of the restructuring of tax burdens. Measures to reduce tax debt are also envisaged under this comprehensive plan. We have also set up a Steering Committee to monitor and guide the implementation of this Comprehensive Plan, which includes representatives of competent ministries, social partners, signatories to the Social Agreement and representatives of the profession. The purpose of this Committee is to monitor the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan, coordinate work, etc. Targeted measures in the area of tax debt reduction: firstly, the proposal for the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, which is in Parliament's legislative procedure, proposes measures that follow the purpose of reducing tax debt; firstly, the period for which a remuneration may be granted or the decision to pay public benefits without checking the property status if the debtor submits an insurance instrument of 12 to 24 months. In the event of preventive financial restructuring, the debtor is introduced into the possibility of granting the tax interest in a maximum of 60 monthly instalments. The possibility of tax and other non-taxable monetary claims with overpaid contributions or taxes is expanded to save enforcement costs for a taxable person and to ensure that FURS is more cost-effective in paying back the tax. Fourthly, the conditions for the sale of entangled movements on public auctions and in the bidding process are changing in the case of movement, thereby preventing the abuse of potential buyers and third parties. Fifthly, this is just a European regulation, a transposition of the directive and a uniform OECD reporting standard, which will automatically inform the tax authority about the financial accounts. This would also allow us to reduce our tax debt. We have planned and proposed this to the Ministry of Justice to ensure that all public cash registers are represented more effectively in insolvency proceedings by amending the Law on State Defence. The proposal is expected to be implemented in the context of a comprehensive reform of the state defence system in 2017. On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice is monitoring the implementation of insolvency law and is also addressing proposals for amendment here. There are also consultations within the Steering Committee on the implementation of a single measure which would facilitate the payment of tax debt to economic operators whose tax debt originates from periods of economic crisis while allowing them to continue their business. All these measures, as well as the measures already in force, have reduced tax debt by EUR 20 million in the first half of 2015 by EUR 281 000 by 1.4%. In the case of an active debt, a debt reduction is detected, for the majority by 20 million 38 000 and 2.5 % respectively. In the case of conditionally recoverable debt, which is mainly due to this economic crisis, the reduction was minimal, by EUR 242 000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u273	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u274	Dear Minister, I thank you for your comprehensive response. Given the number of measures you have listed, I think, at least I personally think, I would have the question of whether everyone is being implemented. Because if all these measures you said were effective, then I believe that this tax debt should be reduced more. After all, we are talking about €401 million in tax debt. We see from this table that somehow active tax debt is declining; on the other hand, conditional debt is less than active, or is also increasing in certain segments. I am, for example, a personal opinion that the reduction in the active debt is also due to the fact that the active debt goes into a conditionally recoverable debt. And when we add this up, look, with a little more than €8 billion in revenue, 1.4 billion of unpaid taxes are inexhaustible. I still think it's a very large number. In the public financial situation that we have in Slovenia, the budget for 2016, 2017 will now be prepared, you will not find one million euro there with a single issue, the thing; here you have 1.4 billion euros of irrevocable tax. I really am calling on the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Mira Cerar to try to do more on this segment; or, on the other hand, to ask how such enormous numbers can occur. Would it not be better to take some action that would have affected this matter earlier in certain segments?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u275	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I agree with you, that's a big number, for sure. Part of it can be attributed to an economic crisis, and part of it is likely to be attributed to a system such as this. And among the measures that have now entered into force or have begun to be implemented, these measures are the first five, these measures so far. We are working very hard to deliver results as soon as possible. Seven of those I counted, or only in the legislative process, are in relation to the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act; there are five. We are dealing with one within the Steering Committee and will certainly get the best possible solution; the other will only be in 2017. We are counting on having all of this as instruments at our disposal, and we would be working to start reducing this tax debt for us as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u277	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr. Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Privatisation of state-owned enterprises is an extremely sensitive topic and is very important at the same time, since transparent and well-thought sales depend on whether the effects on the sale of state property will truly achieve the desired effects and objectives that we are pursuing in the sale of state property. And since the parties to the coalition and the government in which you sit, Mr Minister, have argued through the electoral campaign that your objectives are to establish a rule of law and moral values in all spheres of the country, I must say that this is not happening in practice. I have a particular reason for this, because, as you know, Mr Minister, we have met very actively over the past few weeks on a particular issue that concerns state-owned enterprises in which the privatisation process is taking place. I will make it very clear that we are talking about Paloma and about the irresponsible management of the company and the privatisation process by the President of the Paloma administration, the Paloma Supervisory Board and the SDH liaison. The fact is that the Ministry of Economy and SDH is in breach of the Slovenian State Holding Act, SSDH-1, concerning the privatisation of Paloma, since SDH allows the Director of Paloma to favour only one buyer of six internationally renowned potential investors in the recapitalisation process, which means the simultaneous sale of the majority shareholding in Paloma. It is also the fact that the President of the Palome administration has reserved funds for the 2014 award of EUR 25 000 net and has thus burdened the company. It is also clear from the credit card account that you, Mr Minister, have already paid a contribution of €229 million to workers under an individual contract and to the director of the company in Paloma. The amount paid for workers amounted to EUR 80,000. For workers, EUR 150 gross per employee was allocated, a net of around EUR 125. It follows from these data that the Director of the State Enterprise has earned a prize two hundred times higher than that received by employees who already have very low wages and work in extremely difficult conditions. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Is the Ministry adequately informed about the course of the sale of State property? Does the Ministry take action if the infringements in the sale of State property are reported; and how? Is it true that you explain that two hundred times the director's reservation is a prize like the Paloma Workers' Award, okay? That's what you said at the meeting with some of Paloma's employees. And for the fourth time, is this ethical, responsible for you? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u279	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u280	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Mr President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr. Pojbich. First, I would like to answer how we are informed at the Ministry. Hereinafter, I will also touch on the latest claims. From a systemic point of view, under the Slovenian State Holding Act for the Management of Investments of the Republic of Slovenia on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian State Holding is responsible. Investment management includes, inter alia, the availability of investments, including the company's current business, which has now been discussed, as well as the sale of investments or the privatisation of companies. The SDH shall have the legal power to conduct these procedures independently, with all due diligence required, taking into account the highest professional standards for the preparation and conclusion of such transactions. The Minister of Economic Development and Technology shall be duly informed of the progress of the State property sales procedures, pursuant to decision 3, paragraph 45 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which provides that the Minister responsible for finance and the economy, and the President of the Commission of the Public Finance Supervisory Board, may attend meetings of the SDH Supervisory Board, without having the right to decide on it. An invitation, all the material and records of the Governing Council shall be sent to them for each meeting. Where the Minister is aware in this regard of the suspicions and circumstances of possible irregularities, of the infringements of the sale procedure, there are mechanisms and procedures in the SDH operation to deal with such information within SDH and also outside SDH; or which competent authority is provided with available documentation or information on the infringements of the sale process in order to resolve the detection or action. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology shall be informed of the sales procedures in the context of individual notices or notifications of infringements of decisions of the laws under the jurisdiction of the IGRT which are to take place in those procedures. In these cases, in view of the nature of the alleged infringement of the legislation under our jurisdiction, for example, the takeover of competitive legislation, the wages related to the law drawn up years ago by our ministry, the Ministry will link to the competent authorities if these authorities have not been informed on their own. Otherwise, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has no direct competence to verify, detect, supervise the procedures for the sale of state property. In this place, the procedural as well as methodological aspect of the sales procedure carried out by SDH is meant. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, advocates that all procedures for the sale of state property are conducted transparently, legally and in accordance with the highest professional standards. In the case of Paloma, our ministry received a concrete written application on two matters, namely the Director's salary; we received cases supported by a copy of the annual report and additional documentation on the Director's net salary. We were also informed or marked in writing by comments on the Paloma recapitalisation process by a group of small shareholders. I must say that we, and also after our notification to SDH, who also received this application, checked the first part of the Director's salary application and found, one and the other, on the basis of the information we received from the company that these not-holdings for the wages themselves. However, the process of sales or recapitalisation is not completed and things will be done, I believe, further because SDH is watching over the recapitalisation process, they will proceed transparently and according to the rules of the game; not in the sense that it has been predicted that it will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u281	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, what I heard today, I expected. Mr Minister, it's incredible and I really don't understand how our country works anymore. Over and over again, whatever goes wrong in this country, I hear a sentence — we have no jurisdiction. Mr. Secretary, then pick up your bag and go home. We don't need you here if you don't have any jurisdiction. Are you just going to get paid here?Oh, my God! I hear the same thing over and over and over again. I don't have jurisdiction, the other minister doesn't have that authority, the third minister doesn't have that authority. No one has any jurisdiction. How and then who can demand responsibility? And the fact is, these documents that you, Mr. Minister, have received are accurate and true. When we spoke about the prize, they held, because it was clear that certain matters had already been paid, for a quarter of a million euros, for those individuals with individual contracts in Paloma. You can't say it doesn't hold. You can't say that and it's unfair, unfair, irresponsible. That's because you can prove it. I am convinced that the Ministry of Economy has certain competences to oversee the implementation of certain legislation in this country. Certain legislation must also implement SDH. Whose property is SDH? I'm asking whose property is it owned by the state, is it privately owned? The Ministry of the Economy has competence here, Mr. Minister, it does. He has to monitor the implementation of the legislation. And to this point nothing has been done in this area, even though at the beginning I had the feeling that you wanted to try to make something different here. But apparently there's been some movement, I don't know which way, what reason he was here, that it happened the way it did. Whether it was an excellent cooperation here, or whether there was some other interest in the background, I don't know, and I can't say that. Mr. Secretary, please answer that for a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u283	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u284	Once again, I repeat loudly. The documents submitted to us in connection with the salary are unworthy and not verifiable. We cannot require a specific audit to prove the claims you have mentioned. This can be done by the owner and I believe that he will also do so, according to the responsibility of the Slovenian State Holding Assembly. I can't, can't, and won't go to the company to watch – not even with my own people – the credibility of the data. The documents we received from the notifier you're talking about were rejected as unworthy. That's the point of the problem. Secondly, never to the group I have accepted – and I have accepted in the last half year countless delegations from Paloma, from trade unions, workers, was twice in the company – I have not declared that this is the relationship ; what you said. [[…]] I advocate a transparent approach all the time. We would act without delay if we could get the data sitting on the Director's violation of the contract. And that's what we'll do if we find out. Based on rumors, but based on the lynching, we will not, we cannot act. The second point is that, with regard to the sale or recapitalisation of the company, the procedure is ongoing, irrespective of the fact that I think there have been some errors in this process in the beginning, nothing has happened within this process since the procedure is not completed. I believe that if it is completed, it will be concluded transparently. Not in any way when it is insinuated in the public that someone will be able to bring himself by choice of someone without proper transparent competition of different providers. Anyway, once again, I read all the documents, at the first ball, I thought that was the case. After checking this and after the assurance of the company – after all, we do not have to check these matters on the spot – I am behind what I have said. I believe, however, that the case is so bold that the owner will afford a thorough review of the business. I am not rooting for anyone, but I believe that we owe this important company to operate transparently and also to recapitalise transparently because of its importance for the country, especially for that part of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u285	Mr Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u286	Thank you, Minister, for being so kind that you've done this now. What you have said, Mr President, is absolutely why I will also say what I think I am about to say. Mr Minister, I am sure that the SDH Supervisory Council will not require revision; it must do so after all that has happened, after all that we have heard, after all that has been written. He has to do it to prove the truth. And the fact is, you know absolutely well that what I'm saying here today holds 100%. You are now saying that the documents are not authentic, that it is not true, that it is not credible; it is not true. I don't understand what happened. What happened at some point that you changed your mind? Was it a key meeting when you were sitting with the director of Paloma in Slovenia and you put on his desk the documents he was being charged with? You gave them to him, and said, "Lord, see what burdens you." And then how can you expect us to come to any point if Mr. Minister in this country allows it? Don't joke. Because we don't live in Israel, I don't know where, in Syria, we don't understand what that means. It's just as if before the prosecutor gets the document in his hand, the one who's the plaintiff is going to go to the client and say to him, "Look, that's what's putting a strain on you, which is why we're going to sue you." You had all the documents that were credible and could take appropriate action through SDH. But the smoothness in this country of SDH, the Supervisory Board and the Director is a key problem for this company. That's what the problem is, Mr. Secretary. And you're not the problem, but the fact is, someone's gonna have to cut it slowly. These wild privatisations in Slovenian society are over. I'll do anything to cut this story once. And it's not written for free, Mr. Secretary, look at the whole page of what it says up here. What do I read to you? I hope you can read. The new owner of the state of Paloma chooses to manage himself. Although much interest in the recapitalisation of Paloma was also a pleasant surprise to the country, the president of Tadej Gosak’s administration excluded five of the six bidders from the privatisation process without even allowing them a careful review of the company. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? And now I'm out here like I don't know what I'm saying; and you, Mr. Minister, say that everything is okay and right and ah and at all. Please. Just once, I won't tell you what's on the table and we'll do it together. We must do this for the benefit of our country, for the benefit of our people and those employed in Paloma, as well as in some other companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u287	Did you propose a general discussion, or did you not? [[advertising from the hall]] So we will have an application for a general debate on your proposal, although I should warn you that I am 100%, that every minister in this National Assembly can read and similar things, please apologize to him personally for this level. Please. Mr Andrej Čuš, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u288	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Today I will ask two oral questions in the field of health. The first will be the story or project that we have been discussing in the National Assembly for a good year, this is the Ptuj Emergency Centre. I would not like to explain again for a long time what has been going on over the past year, as I believe that the Health Committee, by decision adopted at that time, has put forward a proposal or called on the Ministry to include the construction of an emergency centre in the emergency centres network. According to my information, you confirmed the investment plan at the Ministry of Health and also included it in the country's development programme plan, which, of course, I am pleased that this is still a basis for the continuation of this project and also for the successful implementation of which the whole lower-level region still needs. Yesterday, the Government laid down the draft budget for 2016 and 2017, which is why I am interested in: Are the said budgets also intended for the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u289	Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u290	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, too, for the question. I'll be very short. The answer is yes. As you have already mentioned, after coordination a project for the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre was included in the national development programme, thus providing money for the construction and completion of this centre in 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u291	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request a positive reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u292	Still, I would like to add or thank you. I believe and know that in the past year, me and some of the representatives of the Lower Lawn congregations have rightly angered you; but I am glad that things are finally going as planned and as they should be. Justification and criteria, why even our lower-level region, the avian region needs an emergency centre, I do not want to talk; but I want us to step together in this area and ensure the construction of an emergency centre on Ptuj as soon as possible. However, I would like to express my hope and wish – I know that this battle for budgetary resources is very bloody – that it would still be the main asset in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u293	Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, you have the floor if you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u294	Yeah, I'll do it anyway. Maybe you didn't piss me off with the discussions, but you took up a lot of time for me; although I always advocated that the emergency centre was envisaged within the network of emergency centres. I have also explained several times at many extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee that I do not know what the reasons were before my term was due to fail; but whatever the case, we now have here. Let me say that most of the funds are indeed provided already in 2016; and in 2017, as envisaged, then only for equipment. The plans are that this centre could actually function and be integrated into the entire network, together with dispatch centres, in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u295	Mrs Vesna Vervega, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Minister Židan, three days ago, on Friday, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food concluded a public call for assistance to start activities for young farmers under the Rural Development Programme by 2020. The conditions to be met by young farmers to be eligible for funding are the age between 18 and 40 years, appropriate education, the first establishment of a farm which must not start before 18 months prior to the submission of an application for public tender. For the first establishment of the farm, each young farmer must become the owner, be registered in the register of agricultural holdings as the holder of the farm and establish a bookkeeping in his name at the beginning of the new calendar year. The last condition is exactly what I'd like to ask you. According to the register of agricultural holdings, in Slovenia about 587 young farmers were registered as holding farmers before 1 February 2014. They were not owners at the time and therefore exceed the 18-month deadline, assuming that they would like to run for the public tender for this sub-measure within the Rural Development Programme this year. I'm asking you: Why do we separate the status of the holder of the agricultural holding from the status of the owner of the agricultural holding in Slovenia? I also want to ask you, or I want you to tell us: At what stage is the creation of a working group that you have promised the representatives of these young farmers to address the problem of this group, which will now not be able to run for these funds? How far away, who would make up this working group, and what should we identify? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u297	Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u298	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new measure to launch the farm is one of the best measures of the new agricultural policy, with which we hope to receive several thousand additional young people who run Slovenian agriculture, firstly, in some way start-up aid – €45 000 and €18 000 600, if the young farmer serves another part of his income. This is the case under the European Regulation. A young farmer means a person who, at the time of submission of the application, is less than 40 years old, has adequate professional knowledge and competence, and for the first time establishes an agricultural holding as the holder of the holding. In the coordination processes of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, social partners such as the Union of Slovenian Rural Youth, the Union of Farmers of Slovenia and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia requested that not only be taken into account but also that the young farmer entering the sub-measure Aid for the start-up of activities for young farmers should be the owner of the agricultural economy. For this reason, the request for entry is a sub-measure of Carriement and Ownership. The 18-month limit is part of a general restriction at European Union level; it is in fact general for 12 months. Austria, for example, has 12 months. Some countries that have demonstrated that we need a longer period of restructuring, but Slovenia, as well as neighbouring Croatia, has been granted 18 and no higher. We, for example, demanded in negotiating points 24; 18 is what we agreed to. The fact is that under these conditions, there are quite a few young farmers who had a bearing; they claim they have not yet mastered it. According to statistics, these young farmers could even be over 500. According to the census – we have asked the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia or the Agricultural Advisory Service to sign by regional institutions – 101 farms or young farmers have been described; they have also warned themselves that the possibility of a 50 % error is likely. If we're talking about 150, we're somewhere on the top number, because everyone who's registered doesn't actually grow and don't want to do it. We met very quickly with these young people, and the first suggestion was that it was easy to say that we were not carrying for more than 18 months, but that we were owning it. However, their opinion came from the European Commission, which says that even if someone is a carrier, he could already grow, which is easy to verify. See if the remittances from the sale of agricultural crops were, say, a transaction account of this young farmer, whether subsidies or any other payments from agricultural policy measures have been paid. That's why it's 7. 9. meeting group, as promised, in the session of the representatives of the Association of Slovenian Rural Youth, the Agricultural Forestry Chambers of Slovenia, the Union of Farmers of Slovenia and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where they prepared a proposal for a single action. This proposal for a single measure, i.e. one-off action, reads as follows. I hope there's enough time to read it. "For the implementation of a single invitation to tender, as the establishment of a farm, the beneficiary shall be deemed to have become a land book owner during a period not exceeding 18 months prior to the submission of the tender, which is the wish of these young farmers, as demonstrated by the decision to enter the land book. However, the completion of the first objective of the business plan shall be considered as a final establishment." And this is also the proposal we have put on the European Commission. We anticipate the next call from the group I have previously appointed as soon as we receive feedback from the European Commission. Of course, it is our desire to help these 150 young farmers to make farming easier for the benefit of the whole of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u299	Mr Saša Tabaković, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The content of my question is as follows. The Ministry of Justice has proposed some very interesting measures in the proposed amendment to the Law on Offences. Among other things, the possibility of paying a fine instead of half as laid down by law now if the offence is paid within the first eight days of the service, on the one hand. On the other hand, it also proposes a prison for non-payment of fines. I want to know: Why on the one hand do we have the relief of the regulation so far, and on the other hand some measure that may indicate a higher degree of repressiveness? Why did such a breakthrough take place? At first glance, it seems that these are measures that pursue completely different objectives. At this point, I would ask the Minister if he could explain: Why did the Ministry come up with such a decision? What is the difference between the proposed replacement prison and the previous removal prison? Why did the Ministry even decide to propose a replacement prison? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u301	Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u302	President, thank you very much. Dear Member, thank you for asking. Messengers and Members! I am grateful for this question, because I believe that this proposal, which is currently in the professional field, will not yet be inter-resortary; but in the professional and public debate, the spears will still break considerably. Infringement law is something that is imposed so much on every citizen or resident of this country. Very few people who have not committed a crime at least once in their lives have been ingrained, warned, and so on. It is true that, at first sight, it turns out that in the draft law, which is, as I say, only a proposal for a law that we wanted to encourage public debate and even a little to provoke public debate with the proposals we have put forward. This proved to be the right thing to do, for now we have a very strong response that we will carefully examine. It seems that we have two conflicting views; yet they are not. And I'll explain to you why, and based on the empirical substrate. On the one hand, we were following a double approach in some way. On the one hand, the humanisation of criminal law for the average offender of offences, which can be said to be at least a citizen; on the other hand, we have indisputably proven to be the highest penalties, the highest fines in Europe; on the other hand, in absolute terms compared to Germany, Austria, France and Italy and in relative terms even more so with our economic and social strength. To put it very simply, on the one hand, we have extremely high offenses because in this way different governments have solved, say, the problem of traffic safety. When something has happened, let us raise offenses and, of course, things will improve. Things aren't getting any better because of the height of the offenses, but because you're likely to be caught and punished with some decent fine. On the other hand, the majority of offenders who commit offences either against public order and peace or against traffic commit one, maximum two offences per year. If the fine is, say, €800, €000, €500, it turns out that some of the payment of such fines can also be placed in social distress. That is why we have decided that we will allow ordinary offenders who want to pay their penalty – of course, the penalty must be, but this penalty must be proportionate – to have every opportunity to do so within their economic and social situation. That's why we said we were going to thirds like the Dutch. We said you could pay for your meals to the end if you turned out to have a social problem here. And in the end, we said that if FURS can't erase you, if you don't have a chance to pay for it, you can serve a fine with a socially beneficial job. That's for that first category. However, the numbers are inexcusable, in Slovenia there are also so many and so many thousands of people who are systematic perpetrators of the offences and non-payers of these offences. The figures are, say, we have hundreds of violators who, over a period of years, have committed two hundred or more offences and fines imposed, unpaid fines of 35,000 euros. There is nothing that works against this person at the end but what we are trying to introduce in a different way – and this is a substitute prison. In the case of systematic violators who do not pay for offences that cannot be erased and who do not wish to do the offence with a socially beneficial work, this offence will be committed if the law is adopted, with appropriate modification, but will have to be served in a prison that will be counted in days and not in months. What is the key difference between the removal prison and the replacement prison? The removal prison was also declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court had not done so, I have announced that, at least as Minister of Justice, I would have suggested that it should be abolished because it was a system aimed at breaking the will of people who could not pay for the offence. So we had people incarcerated who had no other option, sitting up to thirty days in prison. But when they got out, the state still owed the fine, according to the locals. And in ten years, as long as the law was in force, ten thousand people were in prison for being in debt to the state. Estimates are that a replacement prison, if in fact, applies only to the worst perpetrators, returnees, offenders and so on, will be possible about ten per year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u303	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to question the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Mr. Secretary! The area of maintenance of official real estate records is within the legal jurisdiction of the State. The regulated real estate records are the basis for the smooth management and disposal of owners with them; on the other hand, they are also used for the regulation and administration of taxes, refunds and other duties on these properties by the State or the local community. In this area, however, the country has major problems. In doing so, let me point out the area of the title book in the land book, which is implemented under the Act on the Establishment of Floor Property on the proposal of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and on the decision-making of the land belonging to the building in the land book. Law enforcement is under the jurisdiction of the District Courts. After the last annual report on the work of the courts for 2014, the expected time for handling these cases in some courts is even over four years. In fact, these proceedings are still taking a long time, as the backlogs in this area are very large and the courts do not manage the cases on a regular basis. The second area I highlight is the area of the land book, which, on the basis of the last novel of the Law on the Land Book, has moved entirely from hand-operated to computerised form. However, the transfer of all real estates into an IT form was not carried out, although the Centre of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Informatics was obliged to do so for all properties without exception. The result is the dispossessment of the owners of many properties. According to our estimate, there are over a hundred such plots only in the area of Notranjska. They cannot prove to be owners after 2012, they cannot manage and dispose of their real estates. This situation needs to be addressed immediately. Since these parcels have been deleted from the land book for reasons solely on the part of the State or its authorities, it is also the duty of the State to correct them. This burden must by no means go beyond the burden of the citizens. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: What concrete measures will you take to ensure that real estate records are regulated, including within appropriate timeframes? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u305	Let me first say that this is a question from the second round of questions of Members and Members, this is for the record. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u306	President, thank you very much. Dear Member, distinguished other Members and Members of Parliament! We've already written and talked about this. Allow me to answer another part of your question first. After receiving your written question on a similar subject, where you have also specified some of these properties, at the Ministry of Justice we have asked the Supreme Court for a broader substantive explanation, which I think we have also sent to you. The fact is that keeping the land book is in the domain of the judiciary and not in the domain of the Ministry of Justice. We have been confirmed in a rather extensive answer, which, apart from the timeframes, I have to attach to it, namely that the parcels to which your question relates are not actually included in the electronic land book. However, this is not due to errors in the transfer of the written land book to the electronic land book, but to the fact that we have in Slovenia – a deplorable one, even though we thought that Mary Teresa had already arranged it — still lands that are not even in written land books. For various reasons, either because of some plots there are still some open disputed legal issues either because of this — and this is not so rare because the problem of the Cadastral municipalities — in which the cathedral is located. This is the broader problem that the country will face, I believe that, even on our initiative, it will have to tackle. In the final phase also due to the taxation of real estate and the harmonisation of the cadastra and the land book. That's the first part. I must also say that such procedures are in place in the Land Book, that each party has the opportunity to obtain such registration either through the so-called land book configuration process or the land book completion process. I think it's a bit premature for you to say that some owners have been flattered in this sense. However, I certainly agree that the information you have said is also four years in the course of the procedure – it is absolutely and unacceptable for too long. However, without it being, yes, I am apologetic in the sense that things have been improving since 2014. [[…]] If we are looking at the same report as you quoted it yourself; you quoted the average and some procedures in which the proceedings last for four years; and in the same report of the Supreme Court, statistics also show that, although the courts have resolved 18.9% more cases at 12% of the lower rate, and that the control belongs from 70% in this area, which we are talking about, in 2013 increased to 95. This does not mean that we have no problems in this area. Especially in the area of so-called SVETL, we call it, this is the law governing the essential property and the entries in the land book. Here the procedures are extremely long-term, the procedures are also legally extremely complex, because you know, first-class property means 5 plus, not a number of neighbors who don't always have the same view of things. Mainly, the procedures are long-term. As a result, a pilot project was carried out in Maribor in 2014 in the field of the Maribor Court, which proved to be good. This moved to Ljubljana in a certain part, and on this basis the presidents of the district courts agreed this year to set up a district court for the issues under the SVETL, which would improve the speed of resolving these disputes because they are specialized disputes. However, we have set up a special interdepartmental group of experts in this area, which has already prepared a novelty of the law of the ZVETL. Otherwise, it is not in the normative programme, because we did not know when they will be finished, but we think it this year, I say publicly, this year, send it to the National Assembly, which is supposed to make some improvements or significant improvements in the speed and transparency of procedures. At that time, I am counting on your support, although I am now quite frankly telling you that I do not know the concrete solutions from it yet, because it was just last week that the expert group concluded and sent out its proposals, which will now go into inter-departmental coordination. But I have pledged that this must come to the National Assembly this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u307	Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u308	Thank you very much again. Yes, it's true, Minister, we've talked about these things and we've written about them, but I would just like to shed some light on the issue. Before 2012, ownership was also evidenced by a copy of the manual led land book if the individual parcel had not yet been transferred to the electronic land book. So maybe I also expected you to say that maybe one of the possibilities is this one. What I have to say is that you said – they weren't exactly flattered. You know, we had some serious consequences on the Notranian phalange. However, the owners could not demonstrate their ownership rights in a number of forest plots to obtain an appropriate cut permit, as they did not have any document to demonstrate to the competent Forest Office the ownership rights of the deleted, if I may say, parcels; in the parcels where their forest was located. Then they simply did not have a decision to remedy matters; and this is still in the forest. You know the problem we have right now is that there's an increase in the number of doubles. I think that there has been quite a lot of damage, but simply the representative of the Institute for Forests does not approve or approve cuts to owners who are actually not. In a way, they're flattered. Once again, I was thinking: Do you think of such a solution as it was by 2012? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u309	Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I think we're really gonna have to talk about this even when we put this change in the law. I can honestly tell you, at first glance, I am not inclined to go back that year, because at that time the transition period when the electronic land book was not yet fully completed; at the same time, you could also come with paper, according to your own words. The return to this would cause us to focus on the fact that the records in the electronic land book will be complete and coordinated with the disaster, then there will be no such problems. [[...]] However, it is likely that some additional activity of the owners of these land will be required here. Because I don't want to define myself on a case-by-case basis, but as it were said, there are legal means for people to get an entry, a change in the electronic land book, there are. The fact is that they are probably not necessarily free and the easiest, and that people are sometimes blameless because of the intertwining of the cadastral congregations and the landscaping congregations. I pledge to bring to Parliament this year a law that will touch on the essential hastyness of such procedures. Then we will be open to other suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u311	Mr Andrej Čuš, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u312	Thanks, another time. Looks like there's been a few cancellations, but I'm a little faster. I must say that as a member of the Ptujska, Styrian end in the field of health, I have been contacted by a lot of people over the last period. They address me with specific problems and there is certainly one of the problems – which I must point out in the National Assembly and ask the Minister as well as the state to help to deal with – the area of oral surgery in the Styrian region. What am I talking about? In the health care homes of Ptuj and Maribor, all three surgeons, who were the only oral surgeons in the health care system, gradually withdrew due to poor organization of work and consequently unsustainable conditions. This is now being addressed inappropriately, with occasional arrivals of contractors from other regions. All around the country, oral surgery is successfully managed by concessionaires. That's why I'm interested, Madam Minister: Why do you not see the award of concessions as an immediate and appropriate solution to this problem, which has been successfully resolved in all other regions for years now, only in the Maribor-Ptuj region? And unfortunately, nothing moves. The occasional arrivals of contract surgeons from other regions who can only put out fires and make only part of approved programmes are certainly not a stable and sustainable solution. That's why I want to know: What solutions do you see in the organization and implementation of oral surgery in Styria, I think mainly the ptuj-Maribor part? Some individuals have been waiting for answers from the Ministry since April, and one would expect solutions to be found at this time. However, with proposals for a solution to the situation, the catastrophic state of oral surgery has been well informed. However, I would like to say that the efforts and proposals for a solution are also supported by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Association for Maximal and Oral Surgery and both representatives of the patient's rights from these parts. In short, the problem is growing due to the unconstant work and the provision of services, as this comes several times a week after several hours. People are justifiably angry. And you know what the environment is, what demographic trends are like. Because of these trends, you have somehow decided that Ptuj needs an emergency centre; and you probably agree that he needs other quality medical care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u313	Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u314	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Member, Mr Chuš, the other Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for that question. Let me say that our ministry is aware of the problem of jaw surgery in Slovenia and especially in the Ptuj Health House and the Medical House of Dr Adolf Drolc in Maribor, where employees of oral surgery have resigned from the working relationship. We explain or wish to say that the Ministry has actively involved itself in the resolution of the situation, we have conducted numerous interviews and meetings with the management of these public institutions; and according to their assurances, the programme is properly implemented. However, the fact is that in the field of dental care there have been changes, we have been observed for quite some time, and we have also received numerous complaints that for uncomplicated extractions, the real removal of teeth is almost consistent and without exception directed to dental surgeons by dentists; to a secondary level. In this regard, the professions create unnecessary waiting periods. For this reason, we have already carried out two measures, namely, we have called for an extended dental professional college as the highest professional body to identify, from the point of view of the profession, which dental services carried out by dentists without specialization are actually professionally justified for second-level referrals. For each tooth removal performed so far by dentists at primary level, it is really necessary to refer this patient to jaw surgery. Secondly, at the same time, we called on the Institute of Health Insurance to carry out medical and financial supervision on the ground in these oral surgeons in the Styrian area. And it is this month that we will form a working group to prepare a review of rights in addition to the review of the situation and propose new competences between individual levels of dental care. It will also propose a comprehensive dental system, because unfortunately we have not done so in recent years, and now to some extent it wants some dental services performed so far by dentists at the primary level, to be identified and sent to doctors of jaw surgery. When we get an expert opinion. Of course, the granting of concessions and funding are also linked. Among other things, let me inform you that in these days, we will be preparing amendments to and additions to the Health Action Act, to which we are also bound by the Coalition Treaty, where we are fully, correctly and systematically regulating the award of concessions in all areas which will, legally and otherwise, regulate this award and all that is involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u315	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u316	Thank you for the first part of the answer, Madam Secretary-General. I know that in the area of oral surgery and also concessions something is also going on. I am aware that just before summer you also signed one concession in the area of Ljubljana, i.e. the central Slovenian region, the solutions are on the table; there must be some will to do so. The award of a concession, which I believe is the most effective solution, would be immediate and effective; however, countries would not cost any additional money. However, since programmes already paid already exist, there is no need for enlargement; they only need to be implemented and the waiting periods must be tamed. In Ptuj’s health care home, however, there is unfortunately a second course; this is done only four to six times a month, half on Saturdays, when dentists do not work. Most of the complications that jaw surgeons solve, however, occur during dental work. The dentists on Ptuj now no longer have the daily cover of a surgeon as they had when they were employed in the past. Even if you call the health care home on Ptuj, oral surgery, you won't even get an appointment by the end of the year. Surgical activity is not carried out, at least not in the long term, nor is it stable, everything happens from day to day. Otherwise, on October 5th he will come to Ptuj to help out twice in four hours a week and every other Saturday, part-time, another surgeon-concessionist from Murska Sobota, but again only until the end of the year. As I said, for a few hours a month or a week, then new solutions will be needed again. I appeal to you, granting a concession for oral surgery or at least partial concessions would be the right solution and a long-term solution for Ptuj with the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u317	Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u318	Thank you for saying that again. Let me say that, during my term of office, I did not grant or sign precisely because of this legal irregularity of any concession at the secondary level. I have only given three consents to concessions, which are within the competence of the local community at the primary level. So much for clarification. In addition, let me say that we are in the final stage of preparing a comprehensive network, so that even when the law is passed, we will be able to distribute all concessions very correctly where it will not be possible to provide the appropriate accessibility or health services offered by the public system.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u319	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u320	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The culture has recently excited the information about further cuts into culture; but culture is a nation's essence. We Slovenians stood in the midst of large linguistic groups with their own, distinctive and general, including scientific and technical, useful languages. Slovenia defines us as a nation in all cultural activities, so all the occupiers have so far embarked on unbundling policies by abolishing schools in their mother tongue, abolishing officialship in Slovenian, abolishing cultural activities and abolishing funding. So we have experienced this in history, but this is the first time we have experienced it from our own people and from our own country. Obviously, saving and neoliberalism will also lead us to cultural production, with which we proudly and recognizably represent ourselves around the world. Savings measures have, for the most part, reduced the level of software, which depends on the most creative part of Slovenian culture. Over the next two years, the government reportedly plans to reduce funds by more than 11%. This would give cultural institutions 17 million euros less from the budget next year and another 19 million less in 2017. So in just one year we can expect the decline of activity, closure of premises and forgiveness, not to mention the impossible situation of those who live under the poverty threshold in culture, is said to be independent cultural workers and reprisals. That's why I'm asking you: Are you aware that the reduction in resources for culture is a policy of disarmament, as opportunities for the existence and development of the most basic factor that keeps us recognizable? In the neoliberal hysteria of globalisation and the imposition of secret agreements that also affect the cultural field, do you not recognize culture as a sector that is not only a consumer of resources but also a multiplier? What hinders you from giving culture at least as much money as real economic growth? Culture to this growth in some industries even directly contributes to mentioning only tourism and hospitality. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u321	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u322	Thank you very much. This is now the second issue relating to the 2016 and 2017 budget adopted yesterday by the Government. Dear Member, Mrs Tomić, your data is wrong. In the government budget adopted yesterday, the funding for culture in 2016 decreases by a little more than 5 million in 2015; in 2017, it is practically at 2015 level. The problem is that the previous financial perspective, which has been set out so that culture and the cultural ministry can draw on European funds in relatively high amounts, about 20 million a year; 31. This year, the previous financial perspective will be completed. A new one begins, where the available funds are, for the first time, smaller – from 4.2 billion to 3.1 billion for the whole period. Secondly, the purposes set at European level to draw on these funds are such that it is very difficult for culture to draw on European funds. Nevertheless, because we were aware of this, we did the following. We have increased the so-called integral funds, this is the central part of the budget from which salaries, material costs and part of investments are paid. We increased them in 2016 and 2017 to neutralise part of this impact of the fall of European funds. In addition, we have also done what we have done to seek within these guidelines, which are and where it is possible to draw funds, all the possibilities for culture to reach these means. We have also significantly increased what will come from the European budget. The increase in these integral resources is 4,7 % in 2016, which is said to be strong over the growth of gross domestic product, projected at 2,3 %. Even higher growth is at 5.3% in 2017 and 2.3% is projected to grow again. In fact, the government has tried to do everything in this area, as we have already answered the question of Commissioner Příkl, in order to neutralise this poor impact on the use of European funds on culture and the possibility of financing culture. At the same time, I'd like to do it again. When we look at European countries in comparison, how many European countries allocate these 28 funds for individual functional purposes, including culture, especially the media, especially from budgetary or public resources, we must be aware that Slovenia is fourth in terms of the volume of public funds in gross domestic product – 0.8% of gross domestic product, which is 60% higher than the EU average of 0.5%. And if we look at the media, how much public funds there are for the media, this is also a contribution to RTV, which is a public asset, but we are first in the European Union with 0.4% of gross domestic product, while the average is 0.1; that is four times higher. In fact, any fear that the government would not pay exceptional attention to culture and try to maintain a certain level is out of place. We are truly aware of the importance of culture. In addition, we need to be aware of this: today we are 15 percentage points of GDP lower than we were in 2008 to the extent that domestic consumption is available. And all the purposes that have been, all the areas – education, health and so on – have been reduced in this period. [[…]] Culture has only shared the fate of everyone for a long time. However, expenditure increased, for example, for interest, which is now as high as 3% of GDP, and was one percent. We actually tried to do everything possible for culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u323	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u324	Thank you very much for this extensive explanation. I'm glad that information has been more optimistic since yesterday. Obviously, those culturers who were afraid of being there, not only their jobs, but also their own productions, have achieved something and their voice has also been heard from you in the government. And I hope that not only, as you said, you have increased the integral resources, but that it will also be provided for the production assets. For we know that culture cannot exist without the means of production, without which creators cannot create, as independent as those in regular working relationships. I'm glad that you took this matter so seriously and that you are aware of the importance of culture. I think that culture should always be very high on the priority scale. When economic growth is, of course, improving, I think we can also count on culture to live easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u325	That concludes our questions. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 24 September 2015, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. I am also adjourning the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
