ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 11th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič, Mrs. Irena Kotnik by 3 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez between 14 and 16.30, Dr. László Göncz, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Janez Janša, Dr. Franc Trček by 11 a.m., Mr Branko Zorman by 3 p.m., Mr Igor Zorčič by 2 p.m. and Dr. Matej T. Vatovec. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law to supplement the law on public stacks after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of four Members and Members with a first-signed Janie Möderndorfer. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the President of the Committee of the Urški Ban for an additional explanation of the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! At its 12th regular session, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Funds submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members. Representatives and representatives of the proposed law, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the Committee's meetings. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council. In the introduction, a representative of the bill's proposer explained the purpose of the proposed law. He explained two new solutions: the possibility that public housing funds, with the prior agreement of the Government, could be additionally indebted to the amount set out in the new law in Article 1 and allow the public funds to purchase the property acquired by DUTB under the measures to remedy the banking system. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the reasons why the Government does not support the bill and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. He mentioned above all the fact that the solution is not systemic and is also problematic in terms of public debt management. The Vice-President of the Committee further expressed substantive concerns about the proposal for a law and highlighted the fact that the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act did not allow for additional indebtedness and that the issue of housing policy should be addressed in an integrated manner, which the proposed law did not address, and proposed that the Committee should, in accordance with Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, discuss and decide on a proposal for conclusions that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The Committee voted on the proposed decision and adopted the decision. It adopted that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Funds was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u3	I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Jani Möderndorfer for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u4	Good afternoon. This representative represents only himself, so I suggest you change the definition in the sentence. The housing problem in our country is gaining increasing dimensions and it has long gone over the edge that we could talk about, that we will prepare it and that it needs to be addressed systematically. And more importantly, what the chairman of the committee said before me or I apologize, she presented the report, which is that this country has not been systematically settled for some time now, so do not say that it will settle it, because it has not even begun to prepare it seriously to solve it systematically, let alone solve it. However, if we are already at this and if I am well-intentioned and if I believe, then I can say that I am happy and pleased that the Government has started with housing solutions in terms of the national housing programme; but, you know, there is no action programme, neither financial nor in 2015, nor in the 2016 budget, nor in the 2017 budget. In short, to be honest, by the end of this term, the state will not have any non-profit housing. What exactly is the problem? The problem is that we do not want to do anything and refer to such reports or discussions that took place on the committee. Moreover, I have offered, in fact, only one part of the solution that we could approach immediately to solve this problem. Interestingly, not all ministries or the whole government objected. Yes, the government as a government, as a whole, the majority – yes, and the competent Ministry of Environment and Space supported such a proposal, because only that ministry knew exactly what solutions would be solved by this. More importantly, it is wrong to explain that we will pay something in terms of debt. You are well aware that I have proposed such a law in the previous term, and the Ministry of Finance has always said that such a law cannot go forward because it goes into debt, it is said in structural debt. In this year's term of office, the Ministry of Finance has finally found that this is not a structural debt. So there have been some changes, so I continued with this law, especially because housing funds: for the first time, they are best aware of the problem of solving non-profit rents and apartments, and for the second time, more importantly, not the state or the local community do not pay this debt, but they are paying the housing fund which can also be indebted to the value of their property. By clearly defining one of the following matters in the law, this is a security guard, who is told that without the government's consent there can be no such credit at all. So, what's this pretense that someone has and is saying that it will systematically solve it with the law, but if it's a systemic solution to the palm that's made it impossible to date, because it's put housing funds into all the funds? It is important to know that housing funds are the only funds in the country that have real estate, all the other funds do not have it, and that is why this is a non-systemic solution that you say you will someday systematically save it, but the system solution is in your hand. So something's really wrong. However, it is very wrong that the Ministry of Finance automatically refused because it is afraid of the fiscal rule that there will be a serious problem here. You know, it's because of the fiscal rule that he has scissors and canvas in his hands, and that fear is superfluous. And the other one, of course, is DUTB. We will continue to see a proposal for a law that I will talk a little more about later, where even free apartments are to be transferred somewhere. This solution, however, allows – not for free, but only for a preliminary right, which does not mean for free, but for the same value as DUTB offers an apartment, the housing fund must buy it or say it will not take it. So there is no free giving and, in short, a very resolved systemic solution that would not stop any process, exactly none, because we would have the opportunity, as for all other pre-emptive rights, only 30 days to make a decision. Finally, let me say that we are throwing again through the window a structured system solution for which we will listen for more than an hour now, why you will not accept it. Sorry, too bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji, to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government opposes the bill. The reasons for the opposition are as follows. First time. The proposer proposes a solution which, according to the Government, mainly refers to the Housing Fund of the city of Ljubljana and is not systematic enough in this respect. The second reason is that this proposal constitutes an intervention in the borrowing of public funds and opens up the possibility of additional debt and public debt in the wider public sector. With a view to introducing a fiscal rule, the Government will have to adopt a Public Finance Act within six months of the entry into force of the Act, which will also define the debt of not only public funds, but also other public law entities such as local communities, public institutions, agencies and others. The indebtedness of all these units affects the level of the country's debt and must be regulated in a comprehensive manner. The proposal submitted by the Member would make it more difficult in this part to regulate the system of debt in a situation where Slovenia has to create conditions to reduce the excess public debt it has at a relatively high level and which exceeds the recommendations of the Maastricht criteria. The third reason is that the Court of Auditors carried out an audit of public funds and agencies and imposed a series of corrective measures on the Government to ensure that these institutions operate more effectively while at the same time increasing their involvement in the public financial framework, which is one of the basic conditions for public financial consolidation. The government has recently adopted a housing strategy and will begin its phased implementation of this strategy. At the same time, it will submit to the National Assembly, within the time limit, the Public Finance Act, which will fully address this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State, Mr. Dragonja! The Public Funds Act as a system law governs the establishment and operation of public funds. With regard to the financial operations of the Funds, the law also defines financial transactions and in this context limits the level of indebtedness of funds. Public funds are, by definition, a legal person of public law set up by the State and the municipalities to implement specific policies in certain areas, including housing policy. Existing housing funds, and in some cases municipalities themselves, manage and dispose of a certain housing fund that they rent to citizens for non-profit rents. In doing so, we are faced with the fact that the size of non-profit dwellings is lower than the demand or actual market needs. In particular, there is a high demand for non-profit housing on the part of young people who have been waiting for their first job for a long time after finishing their education. Even after they may find a job, they are still forced to stay with their parents because they do not have a chance of self - conquest, and they have no opportunity to get an apartment. As many as 60% of young people up to 34 years of age still reside with their parents for this reason, and this percentage is much higher than other comparable countries in the European Union. What does that mean, this problem, for the design of your own family, is clear to all. On the other hand, we are faced with the fact that banks own state-owned assets, in particular the Bank's Claims Management Company, have many empty dwellings in their balance sheets and have been classified for many years, and they do not actually manage them because they do not even have adequate knowledge and qualifications. Housing is not even regularly maintained and consequently loses both quality and value. In addition, banks with such, for them dead, assets instead of returns have only expenses, expenses of managers, insurance, payments of utility connections and so on. It is clear that in the area of housing policy it is essential to adopt a comprehensive strategy and to have a broader debate on this issue. On the part of the Government, we expected it to prepare and present such a strategy in the first months of its operation, as it is one of the priorities set by the current government coalition at the time of the signing of the coalition agreement. The Government has only tabled a motion for a resolution on the national housing programme 2015-2025 in the parliamentary procedure this month. So we can only expect concrete marriage solutions in the next year and the government, we can say, works too slowly. We hope, however, that on the basis of data on existing housing units, their number and employment, as well as on the indicative number of non-profit housing applicants, an assessment will be taken of whether or not and where new housing construction is needed and what types of construction will be encouraged by the government coalition. In fact, we must not forget that because of the uneven development and settlement of individual regions in Slovenia, we also have certain areas where there is virtually no interest in empty apartments and non-profit apartments remain empty because they simply have no interest. The area of housing policy is certainly an area where, on the basis of a broader discussion, adequate solutions need to be found, especially for young people who are applicants for non-profit housing, as well as for those who want to solve the housing issue in their own arrangement, but may not get adequate loans due to the form of employment, such as fixed-term employment, contractual work, independent entrepreneurs and so on. The appeal of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats to the Government and the government coalition is that, however, we will quickly address this issue of housing, housing policy, and, as soon as possible, we will also take appropriate solutions in the National Assembly, especially for our young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! The current law on public funds for all public funds provides for a maximum of 10% of the debt on the basis of capital or on the basis of income. However, the proposal for a law supplementing the Public Funds Act provides that the scope of the public fund debt established for the implementation of the founder’s housing policy and the management of the founder’s immovable property may be up to 50 % of the capital of the public fund or 70 % of the capital of the public fund, provided that the maturity of the loan is above 30 years and the interest rate is below 2 %. The bill would thus allow the debt of both public housing funds to a maximum of €650 million or up to about 70% of the assets of the funds, estimated at around €900 million. The increased indebtedness of funds would therefore be problematic in terms of reducing the country's indebtedness, as public debt is considered a public debt. A public fund in charge of such an increase would require a reliable cash flow in order to repay the loans, and this cannot be guaranteed in rental apartments for rent payments. For reasons of non-payment of rents, enforcement procedures may take several years despite the priority treatment, while rental property does not entail a high risk of repayment of public funds loans. In its opinion, the government also draws attention to the effect of domination. If public funds were subject to exceptions to strict rules, there would soon be a tendency for similar exceptions in other public law entities. In addition to the greater scope of indebtedness, the proposal of the law also provides that the applicable Public Funds Act is supplemented by a provision to allow the public funds set up to implement the founder's housing policy and to manage the property of the founder to purchase the property acquired by the DUTB in the context of the implementation of the measures to remedy the banking system. If the proposal for a law were adopted, the DUTB should conclude a legal transaction for each property individually, and a preliminary right should also be entered in the Land Book for each property, which would constitute an additional administrative burden for the DUTB. The article is also too wide, since it does not distinguish between residential and other real estates, for example between production facilities, which could jeopardise the implementation of the restructuring agreement, part of which is also an agreement on the transfer of ownership of a healthy core of enterprises. The law of pre-emptive rights could also have negative consequences on the ability of the DUTB to sell its property in a package. If DUTB, for example, had agreed to sell a larger number of properties in the package and the pre-purchase beneficiary would have bought only a few in the package of the included properties, the buyer of the package would have given up on the loss of certain properties, which may have been the very reason for the purchase decision. In view of all of this, the SMC Group will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Funds is not suitable for further consideration. Nevertheless, in the SMC Group, we believe that, as a result of the introduction of fiscal rules and greater financial discipline in the sector, a new system of borrowing all institutional units of the sector, including all public funds, will have to be put in place in the new Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u11	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, welcome! The proposal for a law on public funds is not first submitted and presented in this national assembly. The basic purpose of the proposed law is to increase the supply of non-profit rentals. As the most critical regulation so far, the applicant assesses the current permissible liability for all public funds, which is limited to up to 10% of the capital of the public fund or up to 10% of the total revenue of the public fund in the previous year. Deposits in excess of these 10% of their debt may no longer be in debt. The proposer proposes three amendments. The first is the allocation of public funds to real estate funds and other funds. The second is to allow real estate funds to borrow up to 50 % of the capital of the public fund, or even 70 % if the equity of the loan is above 30 years and up to 2 % of the interest rate, and to grant to the so-called real estate public funds a pre-purchasing right to purchase the real estate acquired by the DUTB in the context of the implementation of the measures to remedy the banking system. It is clear from the content of the bill that the solution so far is the most disruptive for the largest public fund, this is the Public Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and that the proposed solution or initiative addresses in particular their problem or the inability of additional debt. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that housing issues need to be properly addressed, but we believe that the solutions proposed are not adequate and we do not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! We have before us a proposal for a law on public funds, or a report from the parent labour body, which has concluded that it is not suitable for further consideration. Since we also voted in favour of this decision by the representatives of the Desus Group, allow me to give you briefly the reasons for our decision. There are two things that matter. Firstly, the proposers proposed an amendment to Article 37 of the Public Funds Act, which was to add a new third paragraph. This would introduce the allocation of public funds to real estate and other public funds, allowing real estate or housing public funds to borrow up to 50 % of public fund capital or 70 % of public fund capital if the maturity of the loan is over 30 years and at the same time the interest rate is below 2 percentage points per year. The thoughts of our parliamentary group on the proposed change stem mainly from a broader system-wide approach. This year's adopted fiscal rule dictates a new system of possible indebtedness of institutional units of the state, which, of course, includes public funds. The indebtedness of these measures affects the level of the debt sector of the State and should therefore be regulated in a comprehensive manner. In our view, the proposed amendment would make it difficult to regulate the area of debt and would therefore be contrary to the commitments made under the fiscal rule, whether you want it or not. Secondly, in our view, it is even more important or, if you want, a'stricken' part of the proposal, it has been determined that the public funds set up to implement the founder's housing policy and to manage the founder's real estates would allow a pre-purchasing right to purchase the real estate acquired by DUTB within the framework of the implementation of the measures for the rehabilitation of bank systems, i.e. the banking system. It is worth noting, however, that the housing funds concerned can already participate in the sale process and offer the best offer, and therefore it seems pointless for us in our group to allow them a preliminary right. This solution would further dissuade potential buyers from buying, which could in fact mean a smaller profit for the seller, that is, the DUTB. In view of everything I have said, we will vote in the Desus Group in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Unavailability of dwellings in Slovenia certainly exists. Many youths and their families have major problems in solving the housing problem. The direction that Slovenia started in the early 1990s and provided many with the Jazbinšk Law for cheap housing ownership did not prove effective. There are enough residential areas in Slovenia, but they are not accessible, especially in those places where interest is the most. The municipalities, housing funds and other institutions thus face a lot more applicants for non-profit leases than they can afford. The bill was well-intentioned in trying to solve the problem of housing construction by increasing public real estate funds' debt. The arrangement in which these funds were suppressed by the adoption of the Public Funds Act does not allow them to use their own assets, otherwise, as a guarantee to obtain loans for the construction of the Housing Fund. Slovenian housing policy has no clear objective for a long time. It is quite right that we are looking for alternatives, but access to capital for public housing funds is not the only problem that makes housing scarce. Today we have before us a proposal for a law that seeks to solve only one of the problems, this is access to loans from housing funds. The questions that remain open are: it is not clear that allowing loans will really spill into housing of such a kind to meet the needs; the construction of non-profit dwellings according to the concept that we have known so far only means that non-profit rental will still be directed only to people who are difficult to afford already renting and housing costs; those, especially the young and the medium generation, who are forced to rent apartments on the market, should still do so on market criteria and pay high rents. While public funds are independent legal entities, their indebtedness is linked to the debt of the state sector. That is why we must also act in this area in such a way that we can really translate any debt into the goals we want, and these are accessible apartments for the renting market. At the same time, each solution must take into account the Slovenian specificity that we have many ownership apartments and the number of inhabitants of enough residential areas, but are not arranged to ensure accessibility. Many are old and in poor condition, solving this problem must in any case be part of the solution. For these reasons, the Social Democrats on the Committee did not support the proposal of this law. However, we call for a patient cooperation in the search for legal solutions in order to establish such housing policy in Slovenia, in order to provide housing at an affordable price for everyone who needs it. Public housing funds must be part of this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u17	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on my part, too! In the beginning, I must protest against the way this law was abolished on the committee. As has been so far, the coalition, even when it comes to the proposals of smaller opposition parties, has simply decided to declare the law inappropriate for further consideration and to abolish it before any debate is held on it. This is undemocratic and against any standards that should be in this house. If a law or proposal is inappropriate for further consideration, it can only be found after the debate, but not that such a proposal simply rejects the debate. That is why, of course, we will not support this decision, although we do not agree with all the solutions proposed in the law. If I focus on the content of the law myself. We agree with the starting point of the law that it is necessary to increase the non-profit housing fund in our municipalities, but the solutions proposed in the law would not allow this fund to be increased by the apartments that the people need and in the municipalities where they need them. Now the former ZAB has proposed two solutions to which I will briefly identify myself. The first is an increase in the debt of public housing funds, and the second is a pre-primary right for public housing funds in dwellings currently owned by a bad bank. With regard to the increase in indebtedness. Here we can say that they come from a similar finding, as presented by the Ministry of Infrastructure in Material to the national housing programme. The fact is, after the current arrangement, municipalities do not acquire housing according to demographic needs, but they do so according to available resources. This is not necessarily the fault of the congregations, but it is because we do not have the coordination of construction and housing. In particular, we lack a national system for the construction of non-profit dwellings, so there is no guarantee that citizens will be given non-profit apartments where they need them in order to allow additional public housing funds to be allocated. The additional reason is that the law applies only to public housing funds, it is said, to the funds of certain municipalities, especially municipalities, while all the municipalities that do not have these funds are talking about more than 200 smaller municipalities, the law with such arrangements is omitted. The second problem is the right to pre-empt. This solution would also, in principle, be supported in the United Left, and we have already asked the competent ministries and the Government on several occasions why we do not use apartments owned by a bad bank to solve housing problems that are particularly acute among the young population, particularly among those under 30 years of age. However, according to this proposal, only public housing funds, i.e. only urban funds, but not all the other municipalities that need non-profit housing, would be granted a preliminary right. In practice, there would be cases where, for example, the Kori or Novogorski Housing Fund would buy cheap apartments in Sežana, whereas the municipality of Sežana, which is legally bound to provide non-profit housing, would not have such a right. Therefore, the proposed solution is not optimal and in the United Left we would suggest that the preliminary right be granted to the municipalities. In this place, at the end of the day, we also propose to the Government that we adopt such a solution. In the following month, the Law on the Bad Bank will be discussed and the amendment will allow municipalities to obtain the preliminary right to housing currently owned by a bad bank and will finally begin to resolve the participatory problem of housing for the general population, in particular for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In line with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a decision on Wednesday 23. 9. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SLOVENIAN STATE HOLDING LEGISLATION The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Moon. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President of the Committee, for a further explanation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u20	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the context of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, at its 12th session, on 2 September 2015, we considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Slovenian State Holding, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Moon. Representatives and representatives of the proposed law, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee also received the following materials for consideration: the opinion of the competent committee of the Council of State, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Services, the opinion of the Government, the ZaAB Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the United Left Group and the review of the amendments. In its opening remarks, the representative of the proposed law explained that the aim of the proposed law is to take decisions on the privatisation of several companies or shares on the basis of an analysis of the broader implications of the sale to the State, the economy and society and that such decisions are taken in the National Assembly. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service raised the question of the meaning of such an arrangement, whereby, following the adoption of the strategy, the National Assembly, on the basis of the Government, will give its consent on the investments defined and defined in the strategy and therefore the proposal for a law constitutes a derogation from the purpose of the already adopted law on SDH. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the government does not support the bill, he highlighted the problem of interference with the concept of the law, since the law already adopted is based on the separation of the state as the owner of capital investments and other functions of the state. In a short discussion, the motioner highlighted the responsibility of Members with regard to state property and considered that it was not a conflict with the purpose of the law, since it was supposed to be a privatisation regulation. On the contrary, a member of the Committee felt that the new bill would break the concept of the existing law, mentioning the need to protect the ownership of the State and within this demographic fund. On the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government, I further proposed that the Committee should discuss and decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The Committee then adopted the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Slovenian State Holding Act, USDH-1A, is not suitable for further consideration. The decision was adopted by 10 votes to one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u21	I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the proposal for the Law of Luka Mescu for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you for saying that again. This is also a law that fully conformed to all the nomotechnic rules, and was again withdrawn by some procedural manoeuvre by the coalition because it was a proposal by a smaller opposition party, which is apparently easy to overrun. This is clearly becoming a new mode of operation of this coalition, against which we will always protest and protest such undemocraticism in the National Assembly. If I go to the very content of the law. It is clear that in the United Left we oppose the privatisation of state-owned enterprises. We have never hidden this and we have also prepared this law in the light of ours, for example, the fight against privatisation. However, we have designed the law in such a way that it would be acceptable primarily to those who thought or who would have thought seriously through thought - provoking privatisation. In the current SDH law, there is no instrument that would require the Slovenian State Holding and Government to demonstrate, before any privatisation, that the positive effects of this privatisation would be greater than negative, and that there is no legally binding instrument in the current regime which would require the State Holding to include job security in the contract and that these guards, in the event of infringements after taking over, will also apply after privatisation. In recent years, there have been no privatisations that meet these two simple requirements. So; proof that the positive effects of privatisation will be greater than negative, and secondly, that the contracts will incorporate the fuses. For 10 years now, we have been monitoring the sale of Telekom without a single serious analysis of the consequences. Mercator was thus sold, although it was clear in advance that the purchase could not offset the losses of Slovenian agriculture and the food industry, so the sellers of Helios and Mercator did not act when owners or even sold old administrations forgave workers and exacerbated conditions for Slovenian suppliers. These are concrete examples of damage that is happening precisely because of the reckless rejection of such amendments. In objections to our proposal, the government has used very contradictory arguments. On the one hand, it has informed us that the consent of the National Assembly is in breach of the concept and guidelines of the OECD on separation of governance and other functions of the State, and on the other hand, it has argued that there is no need for consensus because we already have something like this in existing legislation. These two are so contradictory, it's hard to read together at all. But I'm still going to answer both the readings and each one individually. First, regarding the OECD guidelines. We have prepared this law on the basis of good practices from OECD countries, particularly Austria and France. Everywhere there, governments or national assemblies must make a decision, before any privatisation takes place, in which the sellers clearly commit to the terms of this privatisation. This does not involve the country in the management of businesses, but merely makes privatisation procedures transparent. This was the point of our proposal, and this was in no way contrary to the OECD or European Union guidelines. Moreover, it is not true that this consensus is not necessary, which was the second argument of the Government, because similar fuses should already have in existing arrangements. As evidence of such an argument, the Government has mainly used the last adopted management strategy, which I have to say once again, that if I remove all ballast from it, there remains only a list for the full sale of 46 companies and 45 for partial privatisation. However, there is no cost-benefit analysis in this document, no evidence that the privatisation of any of the specific companies will benefit the Slovenian economy and society, and in particular there are no concrete legally binding safeguards for jobs and development in this document. It would therefore be necessary to make the future of the Slovenian economy as stable as possible and as transparent as possible privatisation procedures, to adopt a law, which unfortunately the coalition does not even want to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u23	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji, to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Government supports the position of the parent working body and has presented its opinion to the parent working body. The opinion of the Government is that the proposal for a law is not suitable for consideration, as the solutions proposed affect the basic concept of legal regulation, which, inter alia, is based on the separation of the function of the State as the owner of capital investments and other functions of the State, further transparency of governance and governance in accordance with the Slovenian and international corporate governance guidelines, in particular the OECD guidelines on corporate governance of state-owned companies. After the country’s capital investment management strategy has been adopted, the SDH authorities are not bound by the instructions of the State authorities, including the National Assembly or third parties, and are autonomous in the performance of their tasks. At this point, SDH authorities are preparing criteria to monitor the efficiency of state-owned enterprises, which will also be the basis for their more detailed objectives, not only those objectives set out in the strategy, as well as other broader aspects of their operation, and are preparing an investment management plan for the participation of a country containing key elements that have been problematic in the legislative proposal. On this basis, we estimate that we will ensure a deliberate privatisation, but this privatisation will take place within the framework of the autonomous and, in particular, professional decisions of the Slovenian State Holding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u25	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u26	Nice greeting to all of us who are here! In the last few months, we have repeatedly addressed various issues in connection with privatisation or with the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding. I have repeatedly stressed that the assets with which SDH operates are not owned by SDH, its administration or its supervisors, are owned by all of us, citizens and citizens, and as citizens we have the right and duty to demand answers and also responsibility. What and how SDH manages, how it has to pursue and what objectives it must pursue, are defined by the investment management strategy adopted by the National Assembly, the investment management policy adopted by the Administration in agreement with the Supervisory Board, and the annual investment management plan adopted by the SDH Administration and confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian State Holding Act itself provided for a transitional provision, namely Article 84, which represented a security guard in the sale of property, which was only valid until the adoption of the strategy. However, this safeguard provided that until the sale of the capital share, the National Assembly should also be defined, in the event that the book value of the investment has exceeded or exceeded EUR 20 million, or if it reaches a share of at least 25 % of the company's total capital or manages rights of at least 25 % of the voting rights. If I simplify; the National Assembly is supposed to define a transitional provision until the sale of at least important companies or companies sold at a book value of more than EUR 20 million. Events related to the attempt to sell Telekom have shown that such a fuse must not remain only of a transitional nature. A company, which some define as strategic, other than at least important, would almost sell to a financial fund that is not and cannot be a strategic partner of such a company as Telekom. At the time, both the Slovenian State Holding Administration and the Supervisors were called upon to identify themselves to be the only provider for Telekom. Apparently, they thought that the business was too hot for them and that they wanted the owner's opinion. The government hasn't responded to these calls. She left responsibility for the sale of Telekom to the SDH administration and its supervisors, although she knew that the basic requirements of the National Assembly, which had been forwarded to Parliament by another government and confirmed by another composition of the National Assembly, had not been met. The partner was not strategic, but according to the decision of the National Assembly it should be. If I decide to sell my own apartment worth 100,000 euros, we can say, according to Gurs' assessment, I hire a real estate agent, authorize him to find a buyer for me, find one buyer who offers 50,000 euros for this apartment and asks me for an opinion as the owner – tell me one owner who will tell me to define the agent himself! That's exactly what our government or your Slovenian government did. And that is the attitude of the government and Dr. Cerar – let us not forget here his pre-election promises related to Telekom – is the reason why we decided to make an amendment to the bill tabled by the United Left. The government would be obliged to define before the sale of companies with an accounting value of more than EUR 20 million, or defined as at least important undertakings, before the signing of the sales contract until that date. Given the importance and sensitivity of the privatisation of public enterprises, we expected that the government and the coalition would at least be defined by our proposal. A minimum of democratic expectation would be a constructive debate "for" and "against" and coalition members would therefore decide on or against support. The practice of several recent committees shows that the coalition of debates, as they would expect in the National Assembly, no longer permits it. It appears that it is easier to take on a stronger and more numerous position, far from that, respected colleagues and colleagues, what you promised before the elections, far from what you tell people at the time of the government's year, and this is cooperation with the opposition. I hope you will not continue this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u27	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we have a negative position and we do not support the proposed amendments to the SDH Act proposed by the group of Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec, because these amendments would affect the basic concept of legal regulation, which could result in the inoperability of SDH, the loss of independence and thus the deterioration of conditions for effective corporate governance, which is in fact contrary to the basic purpose of this Act. Our definition of the proposed amendments to the Act is justified by the following. The essence of the law is to separate the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State, to manage state investments in a concentrated way and to establish a transparent and efficient system of governance. The proposal to amend the law requires that the National Council on Investments, as defined in the Capital Investment Management Strategy, decide once again before being sold. In our view, this proposed provision of the law makes no sense and is contrary to the OECD guidelines. The essence of the OECD Guidelines is that SDH is independent and is not linked to the guidance of the State authorities. The SDH must act independently and independently, so it must decide on the sale of investments in accordance with the adopted capital investment management strategy of the country prepared by the Government and approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The SDH therefore does not have the time limits set out above, which is further confirmed by the fact that it has to draw up an annual management and disposal plan with State assets approved by the Government for the purposes of its operation. The sale of investments is decided on the SDH Supervisory Board, where a member of the opposition can also participate in the role of the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which certainly contributes to a greater view of the functioning of the whole system. The Court of Auditors and the KPK also exercise control over SDH, which also contributes to strengthening control. It is also important to mention the legal possibility that SDH may decide to leave certain decisions to the Assembly or to the Government in certain cases. SDH is obliged to report to the National Assembly on a quarterly and annual basis, enabling it to monitor its effectiveness in corporate management of the country's capital investments. Your Honor! I hope that we have convinced you with the above arguments and that you are joining our position in the proposed amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act, thus allowing for a standard of governance that will be able to produce the expected positive, public-financial and broader social impacts. For this reason, we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u29	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u30	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not support the proposal and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was adopted by Members and Members of the United Left. We are convinced that the proposals and amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act proposed by Members and Members of the United Left would not transfer the added value in the management of state assets and would be contrary to what we are advocating in the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely that policy must be withdrawn from the management of a state enterprise. We are convinced that the proposed amendments and additions would have an even greater impact on the National Assembly, which in our opinion would also mean less interest for Slovenian state-owned companies. The Slovenian Democratic Party certainly expects the Government of Mir Cerar to continue to privatise, that this privatisation will take place primarily in a transparent manner, and that the selling price will be maximised. We are convinced that the privatisation procedures in the last period and during the time of the Government of Mira Cerar were not appropriate, which has also led to a major fiasco in the sale of Telekom and, as a result, Slovenia is losing its confidence in foreign investors. Finally, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we appeal to the Government of Mir Cerar and to Members and Members of the Coalition that the latest events that have taken place on the committees, that you are vehemently rejecting all the proposals made by the opposition parties, so that the law is not suitable for further consideration, we are convinced that this is not a process that belongs to the National Assembly. I expect future members and members of the coalition, both the SMC party, Desus and the Social Democrats on the Committees, to allow a debate, and then, in our conscience, Members and Members will decide whether or not to give support to the law. I am sure that with these recent actions of yours, you are crushing that confidence and, above all, what Parliament is dedicated to, this means that both the opposition's proposals and the positions are being addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u31	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u32	President, thank you so much for your word. Once again, dear fellows and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act – Desus’ position is rejected. Why? In our view, the amendment of the law is an attempt to take a document that we have already adopted before parliamentary holidays in the National Assembly and is called the State Capital Investment Management Strategy Regulation to influence it. This document has a basis in the Slovenian State Holding Act. Let me remind you that we have taken months and months of long, tiring, sometimes even painful coordination and serious consideration to put under the roof this act, which I have already mentioned and contains in the long term, at least in our opinion, a long-term comprehensive vision of managing capital investments in the country. If today were to confirm the proposed changes, all effort would be in vain. We in Desus believe that the consent of the National Assembly to sell state property would lead to opposite and multi-annual debates in Parliament, where politics would further strengthen its power and influence on the management of the most important state assets or assets. The same doubts, we also highlighted the skeptics when we discussed almost the same bill at one of the previous meetings. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me once again to say that in Desus we have no longer stressed and pointed out that we are not in favour of the sale of state property in haste and so on and regardless of the price we get for the property. Privatization is, in our firm belief, a sensitive subject, whether we are talking about property such or other. We agree that a qualitative analysis of the privatisation procedures is a mandatory and necessary prerequisite before the completion of the business, of course, but not in the form of the influence of the National Assembly on a case-by-case basis, that is, the policy and the needs of the daily policy. Let me also remind you that the impact of transparency in the selection of investment procedures for sale has been ensured by appropriate transformation in the adoption of those strategies, in a way that further revisions are possible in cases of changed circumstances – economic or any other. This means that the analysis and assessment of the individual sales procedure already exists and that any additional care and concern may be overstated. I would also like to point out that this is a national asset management strategy, not just for sale or sale. At the same time, I would add that appropriate control mechanisms have already been put in place in the sense of the SDH Supervisory Board. Also, the Slovenian State holding company must act independently and independently after the current legal regime, otherwise it is known what the consequences are. The clearly defined ownership policy, as we know in the strategy itself, gives the signal that we have set ourselves the goals and commitments that we will pursue in a consistent, serious and fair manner. In the Desus Group, we consider as the only relevant amendment to the Slovenian State Holding Act when, at the same time, the law on the demographic reserve fund is adopted. At this point, I warn you again, there will be no failure, and we will be more than careful to keep an eye on the implementation of the established plans. All other changes in our opinion undermine the standard of effective management of capital investments in the country, which is not least in line with the guidelines set by OCED. For all the reasons listed above, the Members of the Desus Group feel that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u33	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposed amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which we are considering today or will be completed in the process of dealing with this law, are understood as a reminder that the management of the assets and investments of the Republic of Slovenia is still not adequately regulated. To this end, it could only briefly outline how our assets and investments have actually been managed. After independence, we further established Kad, which was established with the aim of trying to create good conditions for the pension system from these capital investments, and the Court, which was actually established to try to carry out compensation procedures, which were largely defined by the Denationalisation Act. However, individual ministries were responsible for other sectors and the problem was because the ministries did not have strategies, they did not have sectoral policies, so the government was actually discussing how we would develop transport, how we would develop banking, how we would develop telecommunications, and in short all that is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, a solution has been proposed by the Social Democrats to set up a Capital Investment Management Agency. The advantage of this agency was that under the supervision of the Court of Auditors, under the supervision of the National Assembly and this missing step was, in fact, only a strategy that would accurately define the activities of individual sectors or the responsibility of ministries for each area. The interest in the sale of property prevailed, so the agency was shut down. The Slovenian State Holding was established. In fact, the fact that there is a large conglomerate of companies in this holding company, namely, energy, railways, Dars, Post, Luka Koper, Blue Insurance, Insurance Office Triglav, Bank, Krko, Gorenje; in short, a wide range of companies in this company, which is supposed to be controlled by some individuals, indicates that we have not yet reached that point, that we are aware of how huge assets, 11 billion, are managed by only a few individuals. This system certainly needs to be further refined and, above all, we see the need for the Supervisory Council to be formed in a completely different way than it is now designed, because, in addition to the interests of capital, it is also necessary to protect the interest of the work and also the influence of the general public, because it is the property of all of us. At this point, the Ministry of Finance is responsible or has the power to enforce all policy in the Slovenian State Holding, and this is, of course, essentially too narrow. Where is the Ministry of Transport, where is the Ministry of Economy, Education, Education and Sport, Defence and so on? All these ministries have no impact on the implementation of their policies, although this property is extremely important for the development of their sectors. The law that we are considering today would, of course, be another step towards getting another controller. In addition to the Slovenian State Holding in the interim period, we have also set up a Company for Bank Claims Management; therefore, instead of bringing together and improving governance through supervisory boards, we are setting up new companies that blur this management further. If today's law were to be passed, it would mean that the National Assembly would give consent and ownership to the assets and thus the National Assembly would become some kind of third manager of assets in the Republic of Slovenia, and of course would be a very vague responsibility both to SDH and to the Bank Claims Management Company, both to the Government and not least to Members in the National Assembly. In short, it was not acceptable for us to obtain a new ruler in the form of a National Assembly by obtaining this law. We note, however, that in the future it will be necessary to actually clean up the management of state property in a way that will also have an impact on the public concerned in this management, that work and not only capital will have a say in how we will manage 11 billion assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u35	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. The combined left of the proposed decision is said to be inappropriate for further consideration, of course it will not support. The law, as I pointed out at the outset in the applicant's position, met all legislative and nomotechnic standards. In addition, an amendment was tabled to the law by another parliamentary group, but this obviously did not make any application for the coalition. The coalition simply blocked the law that was appropriate through procedural manoeuvre and thus stopped the debate, the reason being that the simple debate on the issue was not of interest. A serious debate on our proposal would show what a sung strategy really means to manage state investment and what remains of the pre-election promise of former party Mir Cerar that privatisation will be considered. If we had a serious debate, we would see that the governance strategy recently adopted by the National Assembly is only a plan for the privatisation of 46 companies as a whole and 45 for partial privatisation. And this privatisation will take place in a way that sells Telekom, under the table, away from public control and away from the eyes of the National Assembly. What happened on the current list of 15 companies of excellence is now becoming a rule. However, the rule is that a decision on privatisation is not taken by any strategy or cost-benefit analysis, but is simply taken by list. The additional consequence is that neither the Government nor the SDH have any legally valid instrument that would oblige the takers to take measures to prevent the negative consequences of the sale. All we have proposed is that the National Assembly should agree to privatise more than €50 million. This agreement should be prepared on the basis of an analysis and in a decision to reach agreement, the Government should provide binding guidance on what SDH should negotiate, how the sold company is legally protected and how to prevent cases where the takeover of the undertaking has immediately begun to breach, forgive employees and so on. We know Helios, Mercator, we know the Slovenian steel industry, and we know that they are without legal coercion and without the legal responsibility of the officials, the non-financial commitments now made by the takers, only a notion for the public and a way to silence the employees and the union. In short, the real reason why we are now voting on the conclusion that our proposal is inappropriate, instead of discussing the existing law on SDH and on fuses, how to prevent the possible negative consequences of privatisations, is that the coalition, which has been chosen by promises of transparency and deliberate privatisation, has deviated from these promises in its entirety. The government, for example, stated in its position that there is no need for the consent of the National Assembly, which the Government must now, in one way or another, approve an annual management plan setting out which companies can be sold and in what proportion. But this current arrangement and what we have proposed in the United Left differs from night to day. The annual plan prepared by SDH only confirms and is not legally binding. As we have seen in the case of Telekom, the government will avoid liability in any way and will postpone decisions to SDH. Furthermore, the law does not prescribe the content and the professional basis of the annual management plan. That's understandable. Why? The last thing advocates of privatisation want is a serious analysis of the consequences of privatisation. A serious analysis would show that most privatisations are not justified in a narrow financial sense, except from the point of view of jobs and the long-term development of this economy. A mandatory cost benefit analysis would mean that we should also abandon any commitment already made to Brussels. Due to the list of binding measures, any ministerial assembly or supervisory council should be accountable to the public and possibly to a court of law. Since serious analyses present this danger, the government, as always, has chosen an easier path. Our opposition proposal, by means of a coalition procedural manoeuvre, has come out of the debate and will continue to refer to neoliberal dogma in the public eye, or when it fails, will place responsibility on SDH or on some uncles in the background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u37	The New Slovenia-Christian Democrats' Group has the floor for it, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! Let my presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act begin by stating that asset management is not the primary function for which a country or policy would be called or trained. The primary task of the country, the primary function of the state, is to care for those public goods defined by society as such by consensus. It is a social protection system, a health system, an education system and a defence system. These are constitutional categories. In the Slovenian Constitution you will not find the word company, you will find nothing on the management of companies, but you will find in the 74th Article on entrepreneurship that the economic initiative is free. However, the fact is that our own country has a rather large real estate as well as equity shares in companies and as owner must ensure effective and economic management of its assets. Experiences from the past, when every time a ruling policy has set up its staff in companies, have practically unified Slovenian policy in the conclusions that the management of state assets must be regulated in a way that will prevent direct policy interference with the economy. Whether this can be done or not, here's the question. Although in Novi Slovenija we did not now support the current Slovenian State Holding Act, which distinguishes governance from ownership function, which in our view is a mistake, we are convinced that the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding is a step towards better management of property owned by the State. In Novi Slovenije, we are also convinced that the privatisation process needs to be accelerated and that companies should find the responsible owner as soon as possible. The fact is that companies, but also privately owned banks, have higher returns and more rational business than those owned by the state. That's a fact, and we all know that. The current capital investment management strategy has, in our opinion, rejected the privatisation of state assets in many areas, since it has systematically classified certain capital investments as strategic or important. This fact was pointed out by the ruling coalition when this document was adopted, reflecting some partial interests of the parties to the coalition. The proposed amendment to the law reintroduces the direct impact of policy on state property management, so that each time a ruling coalition can stop the sale of state property, even though the sale will be economically sound. Christian Democrats advocate the withdrawal of policy from businesses or the end of political intervention in Slovenian companies. The policy objective is to ensure the stability of the institutional environment within which businesses operate, not to run businesses selling goods and services of a commercial nature on the market. Christian Democrats also reject the mechanisms so far, when due to political intervention in electoral companies in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, elections to the administrations and supervisory boards of companies also constitute elections. We argue that it is unacceptable for businesses to break down control and management models at all times and that such management is proven to lead to poor results. Therefore, the withdrawal of policies from the economy is necessary. It is also necessary that politicians, or more precisely, high government officials, do not criticize or spit at foreign investors. Spitting is an ugly word, I apologize, but I am merely quoting one of the Slovenian weeks of the past week; that a senior government official spits at a foreign investor when this one opens new jobs is worth interpolating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u39	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On Wednesday, 23, we will decide on the proposal for a decision, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — SECOND DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON NON-MATERIALIZED PAPERS IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji [[…]] Oh, and then the secretary of state at Mrs. Irene Sodin's Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u40	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a law on non-materialised securities. If we want the Slovenian Central Depository Society to be able to approach the pan-European system for dealing with non-materialised securities, Target2-Securities, we need to change the Slovenian legal environment that regulates this area. Target2-Securities or shorter T2S is a project of the Eurosystem. The objective of T2S is to establish a single technical solution for the settlement of securities transactions to which central depository companies will transfer securities settlement and the central bank to the settlement of the monetary part of securities transactions. To help understand the functioning of T2S, an analogy with the rail network may be possible. In doing so, T2S is a railway and the participating central depository companies are railway stations, whose operation cannot be completely independent of other railway stations. However, this does not prohibit the application of different rules at these stations. T2S will connect different systems of countries and different legal order. In order to ensure the same rights and obligations of securities issuers, securities holders and other participants, in spite of the various legal arrangements, the Eurosystem has created requirements to be met by participants. Since T2S is based on a contractual relationship between the parties, these requirements are not prescribed by a government act binding States, but this does not mean that the State does not have to do anything. Since the fulfilment of the requirements by all participants is a condition for the accession of individual central companies to T2S, the legal order of the Member States must not be contrary to these requirements. The solutions regulated by the bill are the most reflected in the abolition of registration accounts. It's necessary because the registry account doesn't have a manager. In fact, the registration account is not maintained by a member of a central depository company, and this departs from the basic assumption of the T2S system that any account in respect of which corporate acts may be carried out shall be held by the person conducting such acts. Therefore, the registration accounts are incompatible with T2S standards. However, in order to avoid the cancellation of registration accounts, the proposal of the law provides that the central depository company shall carry out, free of charge, all actions carried out for the cancellation of registration accounts, free of charge to holders of non-materialised securities, with a view to irrevocable, permanent and without the right to compensation, cancellation of unladen intangible securities held in registry accounts and forwarded, at the latest one month before the expiry of the deadline for the termination of the ATVP accounts, an assessment of the extent to which the revenues resulting from the cancellation of the registration accounts of natural persons will change. For the purpose of assessing this assessment, the provisions of the law governing the market in financial instruments shall apply mutatis mutandis to the assessment of the conformity of the tariff with reasonable business conditions. The assessment of compliance with reasonable business conditions shall also include an assessment of the reduction in compensation for the management of natural persons' accounts and the maintenance of securities in those accounts, which would be justified in taking account of all the circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government proposes that a third hearing be held at this meeting. The rapid adoption of the law would allow all participants in the capital market to adapt as effectively as possible to the changes introduced by the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u41	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you again for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are in the framework of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at its 12th session. 9. 2015 As a parent labour body, they considered the proposal for a law on non-materialised securities submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made comments to each article. Most of the comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. The amendments were tabled by the coalition members of SMC, Desus and SD, the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the Joint Left Group. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the competent Commissions of the State Council, the Bank of Slovenia, the Clearing House of Deputies and the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance further clarified some of the alignments with the legal order of the European Union and the solutions in the draft law and the T2S system as a project of the Eurosystem. A large part of the debate focused on the closure of the register accounts and on the financial implications for the holders, where there was a strong belief that, once further information was obtained, the amendments for today's meeting would, if necessary, be taken into account. Part of the debate was also devoted to the public and access to data on share books, which was further clarified by the representative of the Ministry of Finance. The Committee then examined the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD members of Parliament and adopted them and did not accept the amendments of SDS and the United Left. The Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u43	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. For her, the mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The new Intangible Securities Act is mainly prepared for the purpose of establishing a Eurosystem project labelled T2S aimed at establishing a single technical solution for the settlement of securities transactions to which central depository companies will transfer securities transactions and the central bank to settle cash transactions with these securities. This will be possible on the basis of the transfer of accounts, securities from central depository companies and cash accounts from central banks, and these two core components will formally continue to be part of the individual settlement system within the competence of central depository companies and part of the individual payment system under the competence of central banks. T2S will connect different systems of countries and also link different legal order. In order to ensure the same rights and obligations of issuers of securities, as well as holders of securities and other participants, in a variety of legal arrangements, the Eurosystem has created requirements to be met by participants, since T2S is based on a contractual relationship between participants, these requirements are not prescribed by a government act binding on Member States. This does not mean that there is no need for a Member State to do anything about them because these requirements must be respected by all participants and because their fulfilment is a condition for the accession of individual central depository companies, the legal order of the Member States must not be contrary to those requirements. The purpose of the bill is to bring Slovenia into line with the T2S requirements. The proposal also contains the solutions necessary to adapt Slovenia's legal order to the 2014 Regulation with code 909 on the improvement of securities settlement arrangements in the European Union and central depository companies. The proposed law therefore abolishes the free registration accounts of legal persons with 30. 9. 2016 and with 1. 1. 2017 for natural persons. However, the Clearing House will have to notify the holders of free registration accounts in writing. In doing so, it should be stressed that KDD must not charge any money related to the cancellation of registration accounts. However, in order to close these accounts, not to erase the securities held on them, the central depository company will have to return those securities to the holders. Intangible securities shall be returned to the holder by entering into his account in the central registry. If the owner doesn't have such an account, he'll have to open it. If he doesn't open it, he'll be 30. 9. 2016 came into a credit default if it is a legal person, with 1. 1. 2017, however, if he is a natural person, the performance allows the debtor to fulfil his or her obligation by being court-martialed. As stated, the central depository company will have to perform all actions carried out free of charge to close these accounts. It will also have to provide free of charge to non-materialised securities holders in order to grant irrevocable, permanent and without the right to compensation the cancellation of unladen intangible securities held in those accounts. Certainly, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we understand that a legal environment needs to be established for the use of the T2S technical solution. We also welcome the aim of the law to reduce the costs of dealing with intangible securities. For all of this, the Modern Centre Group of Members will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u45	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello again! The proposed amendment to the Intangible Securities Act, which we are considering today, brings quite a bit of news. The Government, as a proponent, as a key reason for amending the law, cites the adaptation of the Slovenian environment, which regulates the issue of intangible securities in a way that will allow for accession to the European system for settlement of transactions with intangible securities, which is briefly called T2S. Adapting to a system that allows cross-border action brings more news, but during the discussion on the home work committee two topics were highlighted in particular: the public of the stock book and the cancellation of registration accounts. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we tabled an amendment to the bill relating to the public opinion of the Share Book before the hearing on the home committee, the Committee on Finance. We believe that the stock book must remain public and that it must also be explicitly written. We have proposed that the provision on access and the public of data remain in force so far, since it is clearly stated that all the data contained in the Share Book are public. The amendments to the proposed articles, according to our assessment, do not clearly define this public, as this article no longer explicitly provides for this. The Secretary of State further explained on the Committee why a change in the dictatorship had taken place and claimed that the amendment of the law did not result in a change in the rights of the general public to the Share Book. It also explained that the Article does not explicitly provide that the data contained in the Share Book are public, but that everyone has the right to such data and that there are no substantive changes in this area. The closure of the registration accounts was the topic we discussed the most on the home committee. No one wants to harm 260 000 citizens who could be subject to additional costs in the proposed abolition. The article relating to the subject under discussion remains open at this hearing in the National Assembly. The problem arises and will remain when the cost of a trading account is disproportionately high, which could also occur in the future among small shareholders. We will be monitoring the debate today in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and deciding on the support of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u47	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much, President. Dear fellows! The proposal for a law on non-materialised securities is supported by the Desus Group. The purpose of the bill is, for the first time, to align Slovenia's legal order with the requirements of so-called TARGET2-Securities, thus establishing a single technical solution for securities settlement. This will facilitate the access of Slovenian issuers of non-materialised securities to foreign investors, the access of securities holders registered in the central register to new customers, cross-border transactions and the access of Slovenian investors to foreign-issued securities. At the same time, in the Desus Group, it is particularly important that cross-border securities transactions can be carried out on the basis of only two tasks. In fact, the execution of a transaction in which the seller and the buyer are not persons from the country where the securities are registered in the central register requires the participation of several intermediaries. We therefore welcome and support the reduction in the number of intermediaries. All these points are three: firstly, the elimination of administrative barriers, which is not insignificant, secondly, the increase, the increase in security itself and thirdly, which may even be most important, the reduction of transaction costs themselves. Everything else about the so-called T2S was long and widely explained by Mrs Sodinov, so that he would not touch it. In the process of drafting the bill itself, a number of open questions were raised regarding the abolition of free registration accounts, and in particular many serious concerns that the closure of these accounts would unduly burden the holders themselves. Finally, we – I am glad that this has been the case – in the coalition we have adopted a solution to extend the deadline for the cancellation of the registration accounts of natural persons, as we have already heard, until the beginning of 2017. In doing so, it will no longer be necessary to pay court fees if the total value of all securities does not exceed EUR 100 and the holder has not received any payment from the holding of those securities since the beginning of 2014. The proposed amendment will oblige the Central Depository Society to publish a notice of cancellation of registration accounts in two daily newspapers, on its website and, which I think is particularly appropriate and in place, shall be notified in writing to all the holders of these accounts. In the Desus Group, we particularly insisted on this latter to add to the amendment a piece on the written notification of the holders of these accounts. The registration accounts were established solely and mainly for the purposes of the privatisation exercise in order to enable the distribution of intangible securities, and the holder did not have to enter into a legal relationship with a member of the central depository company. These accounts were kept free of charge. It is therefore appropriate that the central depository company, by means of a change, be informed of the holders who will be able to decide for themselves on the principle of marketing or the closure of the account itself. According to the available data available to us, these account holders are about 260 000, including a large number of such older, ignorant or non-learned persons who do not want or for such or other reasons do not monitor daily and up-to-date developments in the securities market, so it is necessary to inform them in writing of the change. That's the least we can do. In our opinion, the written notice certainly has a greater effect than a one-time publication, sterile in the daily newspaper or on the website. We also find it unacceptable to think that for everyone something has to be paid for, that each thing costs something. Given that these accounts have been kept free for a long time and that some holders may now be exposed to potential costs they have never anticipated, however, in the Desus Group it seems to us that a solution that will not financially burden citizens is simply fair and correct. For all of this, we will support the amendment of the law, including the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u49	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, followed by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Once again, welcome on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, in which we will support the proposal for a law on non-materialised securities, since the law is a major simplification in this area, and at the same time these solutions represent greater transparency in the market for shares, bonds and other securities. With greater transparency, we can also talk about ensuring greater legal certainty for all market participants. Within the European Union, the area of securities is harmonised and, last but not least, through the directive adopted, we must also harmonise our legal order. The standards for securities transactions will be regulated in the same way as in other countries, which is irrelevant, because, last but not least, they are also traded across borders, and this is very important for us to have adequate regulated legal security and, above all, a harmonised procedure with European legislation. In 2017, the Central Depository Company will also move to a new system, which will represent a single technology, and it is particularly important that we introduce this change in a timely manner, so that all the necessary procedures can be properly prepared and implemented by 2017. It is important that the law also preserves the public accessibility of the stock book and books of issued securities, which of course we support, but it is certainly very interesting or, if you want, an important solution also for the abolition of registration accounts with the central depository company. In fact, it is about 260 thousand natural persons and together with legal persons, it is 280 000, in which the ownership process in Slovenia was obviously not completed by means of certificates, in a way that is to evaluate or receive an appropriate award for the work that has been invested in social property. The removal of these register accounts is exactly what we have paid special attention to in our Group and we believe that it is right that this process is carried out because it is not in line with other solutions within the European Union, and it is also right that we allow all those who own these documents and represent some property to them, while this property also causes them many difficulties, particularly in cases where access to social assistance is denied. Although these papers are of little value, at some point the holder may be prevented from accessing social assistance. It is therefore right to clear up the situation of these accounts, and it is also right that if we are already going into a procedure whereby their privatisation assets, although modestly, without their value, for example, are to be taken away, we must do so in a manner that is appropriate to inform them. In particular, where additional costs arise. And the judicial fees are one of those that will represent additional costs, so that with the solutions that we have proposed, we mitigate these consequences for at least 90 000 holders of registration accounts, as well as some other procedures, the central depository company will do it free of charge, which is certainly very important and in fact a corrective attitude towards all those who have created social property in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u51	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we invest and support laws that deal with real social problems and solve them for the benefit of the majority of the population. This is certainly not the law on non-materialised securities. The problem that this law is supposed to solve is a virtual problem. The Government has not submitted any evidence to the law that the current system is ineffective and that it threatens the legal security of trade. On the contrary! The speed and volume of trade are constantly increasing and jeopardising the stability of European and global economies. But if there is no real problem that the law is supposed to solve, we need to ask ourselves whose interest is acceptable. If we are specific, in whose interest is the liberalisation of the management of the register of securities, whose benefit is the provision that foreign depositors will be able to carry out their activities in Slovenia, and finally, who will benefit from the abolition of the free registration accounts of the population? The answers to these questions are fully uniform – Articles 9 and 10 of this Act, which open up the operation of the settlement system to foreign companies, will benefit foreign depositors. They will benefit financial capital centres, which are mostly tax havens at the same time. It is crystal clear that the Slovenian depository company will not compete with Austria and that foreign companies in Slovenia will not issue securities. The T2S standards themselves are not innocent. The semi-performing financial crisis has shown that the liberalisation of the capital market increases the instability of the European economy and the differences in development. At the time of the acceleration of growth, capital moved to the periphery where it caused credit overheating, even faster at the time of the crisis, causing a credit crunch, deepening recession and undermining debt. Have we forgotten that much of the foreign credits that Slovenian banks leased in 2005-2008 have been spent on foreign securities purchases? No! No! The current technical standards are certainly not an obstacle to trade in securities, so in our view this law is an interesting law and must be rejected. Slovenian financial capital will use the introduction of European T2S settlement standards to fully privatise the management of the securities register, despite the fact that the register has all the characteristics of the public service. The clearing company shall keep ownership data, issue official extracts from records, automatically retrieve data from other official records and even adopt sub-legislative rules on its operation. In fact, the KDD records are very similar to the land book, with the difference that the real estate owner does not have to have a commercial account with a real estate broker. Imagine that the land book would not be run by a court, but by a company owned by real estate brokers. That is exactly what the KDD Statute is, and this Statute has been definitively sealed by the adoption of the investment management strategy, which will privatise the remaining quarter of SDH's share in the KDD. In the United Left, we insist on the view that keeping official records is a public service, a non-profit service, so we reject the concept of law. The post-SDK post-payment experience has shown that commercialisation reduces transparency and increases costs for users. We do not agree with the logic that the financial system lays down different rules as are applicable to the rest of the economy and to public services. Finally, I must strongly protest against the planned abolition of free registration accounts of the population. The government thus realizes the long-standing wishes of stock exchange houses. Currently, approximately 260,000 registration accounts of living natural persons are open. If only 100,000 holders transfer their securities to commercial accounts, this will bring between €2.5 million and €3.5 million to intermediaries. This includes commissions to be made by stockbrokers' houses. This is also an interesting law in this respect, in favour of domestic financial groups well known from privatisation stories. In the United Left, we do not support their aspirations, so we will vote against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u53	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u54	Your Honor! The proposal for a new law on non-materialised securities means the harmonisation of the issuance and operation of intangible securities with European standards, in particular by introducing a standard T2S, Target2-Securities. This brings our legislation into line with international standards and European legislation. The proposal for today's law, compared to the rules in force so far in this area, provides a different starting point for the relationship between issuers of securities and the central depository society. The relationship will from now on be based on the contractual relationship and no longer on the public authority of the Central Clearing House. The Central Depository Company will independently regulate certain technical actions under T2S standards by its own rules in the future. The transition to the new system will, however, most affect the position of holders of registration accounts which are still open to citizens in the Clearing House of Deposits, where securities acquired by citizens in the ownership process have been kept. The registration accounts, which were free of charge for securities holders, shall be terminated in full by the application of this law or by the expiry of a one-year transitional period. These non-materialised securities holders will have to open a trading account with the central depository company, which is, of course, linked to the cost of keeping the account. Otherwise, securities will be transferred to a so-called metering account. The All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders has given a warning about the closure of registration accounts on the parent labour body and presented possible solutions that would relieve small shareholders from paying the costs of keeping the commercial account, including the possibility of transferring intangible securities to a court deposit with a legally specified such exemption. In New Slovenia, we support solutions that will least burden their holders to move to a new non-materialised securities trading system. In this part, it would be expected that the law would prescribe several options for the transition to a new system, set a longer transition period and limit the cost of keeping commercial accounts for a certain period. Given that there are several members of the central depository company, the trading accounts now have several banks open to the Central Clearing Company, the costs of managing the trading account will certainly be regulated by the market. This is, however, a kind of guarantee that the costs of keeping the trading account will not be too high, but it is expected that the price market for these services will be adjusted over a longer period rather than immediately upon the transition to a new system. The coalition amendment to Article 48 of the bill amends, to some extent, the initial proposed solutions in this area, but not entirely. Certainly we have over a quarter of a million citizens in front of us. Members of the New Slovenia Group will not oppose the proposal for a law on non-materialised securities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u55	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, President. The law we are considering is due to the need to regulate the Slovenian legal environment, which regulates the issue of intangible securities. The harmonisation of the legal environment is necessary if we want the Slovenian Central Depository Society to be able to approach the pan-European system for settlement of transactions with intangible securities. This is a Eurosystem project aimed at establishing a single technical solution for the settlement of securities transactions to which central depository companies will transfer securities transactions and central banks to the settlement of securities transactions. The main changes introduced by the proposal for a law to adapt to the requirements of the Eurosystem are the abolition of some of the third-party rights that are currently registered on non-materialised securities – technical solutions. For non-materialised securities holders today, registration accounts shall be kept in the registry account of the central depository company, free of charge. The change, as proposed today, would mean that central depository services for all holders of these accounts could be provided against payment. In explanation of the amendment tabled by the Members of the United Left in Article 48 of the bill, we have explained why we do not think that the abolition of such free accounts is appropriate. However, this is a large number of non-trading non-trading non-trading non-trading non-materialised securities. These holders are even likely to have been acquired through a process of property transformation or with a so-called certificate. The abolition of registration accounts would have affected a significant number of residents. According to the KDD, some 280 thousand registration accounts were to be held in August this year, of which only a thousand 500 were to be owned by companies and about 50 were to be owned by natural persons engaged in activities. Everything else, not to sound offensive, belongs to ordinary citizens. In the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, it has been noted that it is estimated that a proposal that removes free registration accounts is harmful for both small shareholders and for confidence in the Slovenian capital market. The law would bring new and high costs to a large number of consumers who deposited their shares in these free registration accounts. We should open a trading account with a bank or a stockbroker company and pay the lounge and the expensive annual management costs there. Such costs can be particularly painful for a number of consumers who own only a small number of shares, often from the time of business ownership in the 1990s. Consumers who decided to sell shares should open a commercial account, but if they did nothing, the funds would be deposited in a court deposit due to the payment of a court fee. The Slovenian Consumer Union has even called on the Government to solve the problem in a way that would not cause disproportionate costs to shareholders or force them to sell their investments. Our Group of Members will, of course, support the amendment that we have tabled together with the United Left. With the amendment, we propose that the registration accounts of natural persons should not be abolished and that their holders retain all rights, including dividend payments. If you will support us, fellow Members of the Coalition, in our efforts and rights for the people, we are also prepared to support the whole law in our Group if you will support us in this effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u57	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 48 and the two amendments, namely the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members and the United Left and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! In the United Left, we oppose this law for three reasons, which I will now briefly describe. The first reason is that we are opposed to the liberalisation of the capital market, which is already being brought by the T2S directive in its own right, and thus essentially renews or intensifys those processes that were most responsible for the past financial crisis and put us at risk that the crisis we experienced in 2007 and 2008 will recur. The second reason is that this law and the privatisation of the Clearing House of Deputies abolishes the public service, which has maintained a central register of real estate and transforms itself into a normal market activity, which is not only in our opinion, but also in the view of the Legislative and Legal Services as unacceptable. That's the second point I'm going to explain. The third is, as we have already presented in the position and also now in the position of the Non-Aligned Members, that we oppose the abolition of registration accounts, which is nothing more than a gift to stockbrokers. In fact, out of 260 thousand other living people who own and account, everyone will have to pay 35 euros to turn their free registration account into a commercial account. This money, of course 280 thousand times 35, will be the income for a stock exchange. Now I'm gonna take a short turn. Now with regard to the T2S Directive itself and the further liberalisation of the financial market. As already explained in the position, the aim of the introduction of the T2S standard is to accelerate trade, which was one of the biggest problems in the previous financial crisis. While the free movement of capital is a European dogma, it is harmful from a development and social perspective. The financial capital, as we have seen, has a medium-term tendency to rapidly flow to the periphery during the growth phase and, in the crisis phase, to rapidly drain from there and to increase debt costs and credit crunches. This is an example that we have also experienced in Slovenia. If we can just restore it for a little while. In 2005 to 2008, it is said before the crisis when Slovenia entered the common European market, including the capital market, that a large part of the external debt was accumulated in us and if we look at its structure, we will see that a large part of the external debt was spent on foreign securities purchases. After the crisis, capital poured out of Slovenia, all of which increased the cost of borrowing and credit crunches in our country. Therefore, not only in Europe after the crisis, but throughout the Western world, there have been a lot of debates so that these pro-cyclical effects of financial markets and the free movement of capital need to be regulated more strictly. In order to reintroduce the separation of commercial and investment banking, in order to prevent shadow banking, and to make clear regulation and restrictions on the free movement of capital clear, because, in the emerging forms that we had before the crisis, it is extremely detrimental to the overall economic and social development. But unfortunately, these debates have disappeared, and in political practice, what we call neoliberalism is being strengthened, it is said, it is getting stronger and stronger and pre-crisis patterns are being restored, although virtually all the global media are warning that the crisis has been solved by the financial balloons, that countries are currently too indebted to be able to recover another financial crisis, and the financial crisis is already brewing due to exactly such patterns in the global capital markets and it is becoming increasingly a matter of when it will erupt, as it will. That is why we, as Slovenian legislator, should have a much deeper reflection on the directives we are introducing and, last but not least, in the European Union, some critical word about these processes. Now another issue of why we oppose this law is the abolition of the register or the transformation of the Clearing House of Deputies as a public company; it is said that it is a public service for ordinary market activity. Here I will draw attention to the opinion of the ZPS, which rightly pointed out that the name of the central register already indicates that it is a single record, and then essentially define what this single record means. The clearing company shall have an official record and issue extracts from it that are considered to be official documents before the courts, CSDs and so on. The clearing company automatically extracts data from other records such as the population register, the tax register, and in fact acts in a very similar way to the land book, with even greater powers than the courts. The management of the earth’s book is prescribed by law. Moreover, the central depository company itself issues rules on the management of the register of securities and related actions and should therefore remain a public activity in its nature. In the law currently before us, however, it turns into a normal commercial market activity, which challenges its basic purpose and therefore, in essence, this second point, which is implied by the law, cannot be supported. The third point, where we have also tabled an amendment, is the registration accounts. Indeed, as I said in the introduction, in Slovenia we have about 260 thousand still living owners of registration accounts. These are people who did not become stockholders because they would trade on the stock exchange, but are mostly people who got them in transition when the certificates were distributed. In 2012, there were another 450 000 of these accounts, but since it is mainly the older population and the population living socially under very undesirable circumstances, the number of these accounts is rapidly decreasing. Thus we have come from 450 000 to 280 000 in the last three years, of which more than 10,000 of the existing accounts belong to deceased persons because their descendants simply do not want to receive the costs of transferring these accounts. What this law, which we have before us, brings, is that there will be existing owners, it is said, those over 260 thousand still in existence and still alive, who have raised the question of whether your shares in these accounts will go into so-called garbage accounts – as they are said, I will later specify – or whether you will have to turn them into commercial accounts in stock exchanges. We have made a calculation of how much this conversion into a commercial account would cost, and one conversion costs EUR 35. Thus, this provision in the law is written solely in the interest of brokerage houses. There will be no small profit here, even if it is decided just, say, 200,000 inhabitants of 260 000 to convert their now free registration accounts into commercial accounts, multiply 200 000 times 35 and you will find out how much this transfer will earn the stock exchange houses, while new owners of these trading accounts will have to pay the management costs and other related costs. It points out this, after all, also the Slovenian Consumers' Union, which on 10 March made it clear that the Government must not solve this problem in a way in which shareholders bear disproportionate costs, but at the same time force them to sell investments. This is also our position or starting point of the amendment, which we have tabled together with the Group of Non-Aligned Members. And I stress that this is not about the owners of accounts that are rich or privileged, but about people who have not voluntarily become owners of these securities, but who have become owners of property that have low financial assets and that perhaps some of those shares in these register accounts are the only financial assets they have. We are not proposing any tax reliefs for them or anything like that, we are simply proposing not to put them in a dilemma, or you will be relieved or you will have to transfer this small asset to the stock exchange houses at your expense, and it is clear who will benefit from this transfer. Therefore, on behalf of the proposers, I call on the other parliamentary groups to support our amendment in order to prevent another form of decommissioning of the poorest parts of the population in favour of financial and market intermediaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbich, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Once again, good-bye, colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that the honourable predecessor encouraged me mainly in this part when I was thinking about preparing for this debate today on the amendments tabled and the proposal for a law on non-materialised securities, so that I had a little bit of a problem mainly because of the question of how to deal with these issues. This is mainly because I personally believe that this law is of a more technical nature, which prescribes only the procedure for its implementation. In doing so, we cannot go beyond the important fact that the implementation of the Intangible Securities Act interferes with the rights of so-called legal and natural persons appearing in the open market of supply and demand, in the role of the holder or issuer of securities. In short, the owner who enforces his property rights, such as those under this law, namely corporate acts, lien rights, prohibition of availability and, last but not least, the institution of guarantee. In this regard, it should be mentioned that the law itself is directly linked, this law on intangible securities, to two other laws which have a very strong influence in these procedures, namely the Bond Code and the Real Law. Since these matters are not uniform or simple, it should be noted that they are indirectly linked to this material also by the Company Act, the takeover Act, the Securities Market Act and the Market of Financial Instruments Act. With regard to the complexity of matter, it is right to ask ourselves why we need non-materialised securities at all. It should be noted here that in the broader context of economic development, there was a need for a mechanism to establish a simpler transport of rights allowing the so-called trading of rights. Non-materialised paper generally replaces a securitisation paper, just as e-money has been successful for some time and in the future replaces cash transactions. It simply means that the paper is replaced in physical form by electronic and it is important that the content remains exactly the same as usual and is known on the paper. We can say, and this law also defines that unmaterialised securities already mean only a record in the central register and in Slovenia we know this central register through the Clearing house depository. Nevertheless, I would like to touch on the fact that in the Republic of Slovenia we met with intangible securities in the year 1995 when the Securities Market Act was adopted. In the same year, this Clearing House company joined in, and is now setting itself up at some points as a stumbling block. However, it is important that the core activity of the Clearing House of Deposits is primarily the preservation of securities, the identification and fulfilment of liabilities from securities transactions. And what directly concerns today's topic is keeping a central register of non-materialised securities holders. In this context, it is also important to conclude that there is no general obligation to issue securities in a non-materialised form in the Republic of Slovenia. When I touched it a long time ago, I would say, however, that there has been a change in this legislation in these years, but I would have stopped in 2011 only, because at that time the Law on Non-Materialised Securities, which is still in force today, has changed, and it is essential that this law, now in force, lays the groundwork for this so-called cross-border operation of the European system, namely the settlement of securities transactions. And if I conclude this part, the proposed law represents only an upgrade to this system and is conditional on a directive of the European Union last year. The law itself would not be too much debated, as the opening presentations have already said enough. Nevertheless, I would touch some of the things that touch this law and in some ways also the amendments. And they certainly have a great deal of weight in the implementation processes. In the first place, I would have touched on the status of transformation, as an integral part of the activities of legal persons on the market are also the so-called status transformations that we know through so-called company acquisitions. All these processes and processes, which will also take place in our space, must simply be implemented through the central registry. And that is why it is still important what kind of legal arrangements we have, including by law. Another issue that gives the law a special weight is corporate action. And corporate actions, if I may say with force a simple expression, mean simply the conclusion of a congregation or other body of a company operating on the market. Such decisions do not create contractual relations, but they oblige the company's authorities to comply through their legal representatives. The fact is that such decisions are legally binding and constitute a binding deal for beneficiaries. Simply put, corporate actions are primarily about issuing, deleting and swapping securities. If I touch further on this work, the new law on intangible securities introduces a new amendment concerning nomotechnics. The fact is that this law divides the existing law by its scope and number of articles; and yet we can say that it does not impoverish the content. It is important, however, that this legal substance is approaching European legislation; I believe that it is very important for the Republic of Slovenia to allow even greater capital flows within the European Union. In order to enter the T2S system, it should be reiterated that entry into this system is genuinely facilitating cross-border operations. It is also important to reduce the number of intermediaries, while also reducing costs. It is true, however, that as a result of this means decommissioning existing registration plans; accounts, I apologize for the inevitable and necessary. Let me finish. The Directive of the European Union, which introduces the obligation to establish a T2S system, certainly gives an optimistic view in Slovenia of the possibility of trading the securities in question. However, how much the beneficiaries will benefit from this will certainly bring time to its results. Personally, I believe that more traffic will be restored on the market, the parquet and thus the greater interest of securities owners after new investments. I believe that the Republic of Slovenia still needs this, so I am very much in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. In the context of the debate on the amendment to Article 48, I would like to point out that the content of this Article, as well as the amendment tabled under this Article, is intended to deal with the remnants of Slovenian privatisation through certificates. It is estimated that some 280 thousand natural and legal persons who have not gained much from this privatisation are very important, so it is very important that we do not impose additional burdens on all these holders in the procedures provided for in this Act. The law refers to the possibility that all those with low value in their accounts could have the opportunity to cancel their securities without compensation but also without cost. This can be done by transferring a written order to a central depository company; and the central depository company then transfer their papers from their registry account to a so-called write-down account. In doing so, it is very important that we extend the period to which they can carry out this procedure. For natural persons, this amendment will extend the period until 1 September 2017, which is extremely important in order for everyone to be able to prepare and decide whether to go this way to transfer the registry account to an abandoned account, or to decide that they may have access to their securities and to the securities market and open a so-called trading account. And if they do not decide to do so, they have the opportunity to deposit, if I may say so, their securities at the so-called court deposit for another five years. Here, it would be necessary to pay a tax under the Law on Judicial Fees. In this amendment, we are trying to reduce the obligation to pay court fees for all those in which the value of the securities in the account is less than EUR 100. It is estimated that some of the 260 thousand account holders are 90 000 of those with a security value of less than 100 euros, and therefore there will be no need to pay judicial fees. In all of this, it is very important that, through means of public information, and also directly, it seeks to inform all account holders. If that time limit is appropriate, i.e. by 1 September 2017, then I think that we can talk about the application of a provision in the law that speaks of a central depository undertaking carrying out all acts carried out free of charge in order to terminate the registration accounts and allow holders of intangible securities free of charge to cancel uninterrupted, permanent and non-refundable cancellations to unburdened intangibleised securities held in registry accounts. Since, from the beginning of privatisation, up to 260 thousand people do not deal with these papers in any way, it is right to try to point them out through the public information system that by 2017 they do everything that this law allows them to do in a way that allows them to have as little cost as possible or to enter the market and try to elevate the assets they have acquired through the process owned by means of certificates. Nevertheless, I think that we can say that the amendment to Article 48 makes this law more favourable to all those holders of paper that, during the current period, either did not know or were sufficiently informed about how they could do it; or they did not want to enter the securities market and try to obtain more than this moment's worth of paper. And that's why I'm going to support this amendment. I think the law is actually getting nicer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u63	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much. It is necessary to accept one fact that this last step we are taking with this law is due to some of the previous steps that have taken. In some ways, he was expected, mainly because in history, if we look at it, the Ministry of Finance has always been extremely keen on KDD. This is not just this minister's problem, this is the problem of all former ministers. That was a really amazing connection. From history, if we look at it, let me tell you what this ministry has already done in the past. First, the introduction of lesarins years ago, then the discontinuation of the control of the Securities Market Agency, the ATVP, over KDD tariffs. Immediately after that, there was a suspension of written notices about the situation in the account and it appears that this is now the final stage of the action, when we introduce a paying something that was not previously payable. That's what I'm talking about, which is sometimes awkward for an MF representative when you tell them in the face and they sit in front of you. It is clear and logical that they will deny this because it is their task and they must do so. Of course, I do not agree with those who debate in spirit, that it is neoliberalism, mix with the paper market; in short, a whole bunch of things stick up, and then give this winged thing and say, that's it. No, that's not the point. The fact is, if they're going to pull it off, they've got to pull that last move. But I do not agree with you, my fellow moon, when you say that 20 years ago we all became owners; but if you remember Mencinger, he said he would throw his certificates in the trash because they are not worth anything to him. Others, however, put them in the form of shares or became coowners. Since then, this problem has arisen, which is what we are talking about today. I must say that two amendments were proposed by the coalition and the opposition in the debate. I agree with the first part of the coalition's amendment, because there is no longer a need to maintain the registration accounts, which is mentioned in this first purpose. In fact, it corrects this situation in some way, as proposed by the MF – and carefreely, without any serious concern. I must say, the Ministry of Finance has a special relationship. He did not want to deal with this issue and the step by step led slowly to this point, that the action was only reasonable in the end. Everything they have already done has to be completed in the end. However, there is one problem with these amendments, namely that this coalition amendment includes the free deposit of securities in court, the extension of the deadline for the cancellation of registration accounts, and the KDD undertakes to notify the holders of intangible securities of the cancellation of registration accounts. In doing so, it should be noted that there is a somewhat unclear recording of the conditions for free placement, since the provision or condition that the owner has not received any payment from the property of intangibleised paper values indicating the cumulativeity of the conditions. Here's the problem. If you think of it, you'll come up with the idea that at least you'll get it right. Otherwise, in principle, I support the coalition amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u65	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Urosh Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much. If the proposal of this law were to break into two parts and clarify the main points in two points or also its own personal position, the first part is that technical nature when it speaks of us adapting to the so-called T2S, whatever it is called, where there is some way of synchronising European securities business. What is very important to us in Desus and to me personally is that we are dealing with fewer administrations, less administrative barriers. Secondly, I believe it is a matter of greater security, a more modern, modern technology. It is less cost for business, easier access by Slovenian issuers of at least securities to foreign investors, access to securities holders entered in the central register, i.e. comprehensive cross-border transactions. [[Incomprehensible]] I think that there should be nothing at stake in this area, and we are probably all in this House aware that this is probably necessary, okay and positive. Now, about the second part. I have to say, we've talked a lot, we've convinced each other a lot about what would be best. We've all been so excited, some more, some less. To be honest with Desus, 100 percent can be honest with the holders of these papers so they don't get hit here by some kind of unnecessary financial burden. Why unnecessary? If this has been all for free so far, and this is due to some processes from the past that have already been discussed, why should we pay something at once for keeping these accounts? You've got something in the past for free, even though we've heard that there's nothing free, that every thing costs something — it seems to me to be inappropriate thinking, even for the socially sensitive – but why should we pay now. The proposal of the United Left is very attractive, in some ways also positive, I have never opposed it but priori. The coalition proposal, however, is one compromise that has somehow tried to compromise possible, which is one possible compromise in the final stage of policy; even in this direction, it does not affect the target population. I must be honest, I have in mind the older people of our country in particular, as well as the slightly younger ones who don't care and somehow aren't on all the websites every day, and they are monitoring the developments in the securities market, so that we can make things easier for them and inform them accordingly. Why is this coalition amendment going on? This is the first time, which I think is very important and very important, that in some way it extends the deadline for the removal of registration accounts of natural persons, we are talking about natural persons, up to 1. 1. 2017, which also allows more time for reflection and reflection on whether this will close or whether these accounts will be traded. Each individual must be allowed a free way and a decision. Furthermore, what is essential lays down that the deposit in a court is free of charge is not subject to judicial fees if, here, that compromise is possible – if it is made from a register account of which the natural person is the holder. We don't care about natural persons. Legals will come through. Let's be honest here. The value of all non-materialised securities held in a registry account and to be deposited in a court of law shall not exceed EUR 100. The talk was that in most cases in many accounts there are extremely small funds, extremely small amounts, and negligiblely small, we have also heard. Furthermore, none of the non-materialised securities held in the registry account are included in the trading on the organised market and the holder of the registry account from 1. 1. In 2014 no further payment was made on the property of intangible securities held in the registry account. In Desus, we also insisted that the notice of possible withdrawal be published not only on the CDD website and in the daily newspaper, but also in writing to the individual. I believe that these compromise proposals, which I have now perhaps listed in a little more detail, but because they are not so many, and which are contained in the coalition amendment to Article 48, are that contribution that will not hinder the direction and intention of this law, which will not impede the business of the securities market; at the same time, it will allow for a painless decision to close these accounts so that it will not affect it financially, with a sufficiently long transitional period of up to 1. 1. 2017. I believe that there is one optimal compromise, without hurting vulnerable target groups, which we always like to stress and by this amendment we are also proving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u67	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At this point, you have to agree with the debate of colleague Jani Möderndorfer, who has well assessed that the new Law on intangible securities means a new level in the development of Slovenian equity. It is an organic level, an organic development and also an alignment with the European acquis. Today — and not just today — it is always a pleasure to discuss this by cutting off some costs so that people have something free and so on. Surely there would also be a very welcome proposal to simply adopt a law that will oblige commercial banks not to charge the costs of keeping our personal accounts or transaction accounts. That was very nice, but it doesn't work, it just doesn't work. And this new law brings about major changes. The proposal for this law, compared to the rules in force so far in this area, establishes a different starting point for the relationship between issuers of securities and the central depository company. From now on, the relationship will be based on the contractual relationship and not more on the public authority of the Central Clearing House. Each contract also has financial elements in the back, where either one or both parties or all signatories have to pay something. We talk a lot about the standard T2S – Target2 or Target2-Securities. Here are also other standards such as Corporate Actions Join Working Group standard and so on; but perhaps a few more words about the technical innovation of T2S. It is the establishment of a single technical solution for securities settlement. What does this standard mean now? We are talking a lot about this, but perhaps our citizens want a little more words about this standard. I think it's a very interesting comparison with the rail system; in order to help understand Target2 Securities, T2S, it can be an analogy with the rail network where T2S means railway, it is called railway tracks; the participating central depository companies – many of them – are railway stations along this rail line. The operation of these central depository companies cannot be entirely independent of the operation of other railway stations, although it does not prohibit the application of different rules at these stations. T2S is a Eurosystem project, which we have already said today, which aims to establish a single technical solution for securities settlement, to which central depository companies will transfer securities settlement; and the central bank will settle monetary transactions with securities. Since T2S will connect the different systems of countries, like the rail system, it will also link the different legal order of these individual countries. Instead of ensuring the diversity of legal arrangements, despite the same rights and obligations as issuers of securities, securities holders and other participants, the Eurosystem has created requirements for the predictability of the T2S operations to be met by participants. Since T2S is based on a contractual relationship between the parties, these requirements are not prescribed by a government act binding Member States. However, this does not mean that there is no need for a Member State to do anything about them. On the contrary, since these requirements must be respected by all T2S participants and because their fulfilment is a condition for the accession of individual central depository companies to T2S, the legal order of the Member States must not be contrary to these requirements. It is therefore quite clear, even today, that the purpose of this proposal for a new law is also to harmonise Slovenia's legal order with the requirements of T2S and that the proposal contains solutions and that Slovenia adapts the regulation of the European Union in 2014 on improving securities settlement arrangements in the European Union and on central depository companies. The New Slovenia Group is having difficulty in supporting one or the other amendment to Article 48 of the bill. To be honest, no one brings any significant added value. It is true that the small-stock system needs to be developed; however, I think it is schizophrenic to speak on the one hand about people, about citizens on the social side and about shareholders on the other. At least it doesn't work out for me personally. I don't know why 100 euros, why not 120, 150, 200, I don't know why. Maybe this goes against the request of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, which is the right thing to do. On the other hand, we are asking ourselves a question – and we have not received an answer in this debate or in this committee – what will the implementation of this new law on non-materialised securities bring in in terms of increasing the burden of the courts, I am referring to the legacy debates. Has anyone thought about this, or has the Slovenian judicial system responded to this law? Here we would like at least some framework answers to these questions. We believe that the courts will be more burdened than they have been before; we may be wrong, but we would like clear answers here. As we say, we will not oppose this new law; it is an organic development in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u69	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you. I'd just like to add a few more explanations. With our amendment relating to registration accounts and to the continued provision of free registration or the preservation of these registration accounts, not forcing people to open trade accounts. This does not mean any cost-absorbing, but merely preserving the current situation that costs no one, because these accounts are not intended to trade that are now open to the KDD, but only to register their assets. This isn't about some rich people either. The data we have been able to obtain shows that 85% of all assets are present, I believe, in the thousands of 500 accounts; while all others are really small shareholders, who by chance received some assets during the transition. I must stress here in particular that we could specify these amendments more in detail and also that we could have a more informed debate today on this issue on the Committee; we called on the Ministry to provide us with accurate information on the owners of these accounts, but we did not get them, so that we still operate with very limited data at the fault of the government or at the fault of the Ministry. But there's something clear. It is 260 thousand more living people who will be suppressed by choice, whether you will be relieved of some of the assets you received during the transition, or whether you will have to open trading accounts on the stock exchange houses. The interest here is clear, the stock exchange houses will earn between €5 million and €10 million according to the calculations of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders by this seemingly technical law and the measure contained therein. Once again, I call on the parliamentary groups to support our amendment and to prevent this from happening. This will come from the pockets of 260 thousand people who, during the transition, have received a share; now they will have to become stock merchants, which will bring their costs or otherwise be relieved. The third thing I wanted to stress was that this is not an organic development, but a political development of the securities market. This is a political development in the direction of exactly the trends we had before the crisis, and precisely those trends that accelerated the overheating of the economy before the crisis and accelerated the credit crunch after the crisis. And at least so much thought should be given to adopting such laws that in the future we should try to prevent something that has cost us enormously, billions in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u71	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Mag. Dušan Verbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I must admit that I have decided to come forward once again, because a respected colleague who has just spoken about certain amounts, and also related to or mentioned in the amendments tabled by them and also by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, I believe that such amounts, which are mentioned here, are, on the basis of the data and information I have at my disposal, unrealistic in some way; and I allow the possibility that they have a so-called market niche with such an amount in individual environments. I am in the so-called amounts for the commercial account where the amendment applicants specifically state that they have obtained this information on the basis of the stock exchange data. The cost of such a transaction is a minimum of EUR 35.45 for securities of the same series. I allow the possibility, but there is still a bit of demagogism or deception in this presentation, because I have some different data myself. As a result, we should give another aspect of reality to all those present and those accompanying us. The costs of opening and maintaining a commercial account are similar in the Slovenian banking area. They state, if I am very specific here, Slovenian banks; I am talking – banks operating in the Slovenian banking area are said to be foreign-owned banks, are similar to the classic current bank account for opening and maintaining a trading account. And among the providers of such services, we must recognise that they are already subject to competition. There are certainly more differences in a number of cases. I am sure that any holder who still has this account will find the most appropriate option for himself, which is why I cannot agree with this amount that everyone will go to the first house, especially in order to pay nicely. Banks operating in the Slovenian space – what I have already mentioned, regardless of ownership – and trading companies to keep a commercial account for investors per year charge between €5 and €12 or about €0.41 and €1 per month. So much for these so-called amounts that I think are exaggerated. It is also true that, on the basis of the information I have available to me, it is possible to say that most of the holders of these free registration accounts are for inactive investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u73	The replica has the Luke Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you. The information I provide is in particular information from the price list of the stock exchange house Ilirik. The cost cut is as follows: the opening of the account is €13.75; then there must be charges for the transfer of KDD papers, the costs of managing the one-off contract and the commission for sale. If we add all this up, we get 35.45 euros to open one commercial account. When you say so, each individual, owner – of these 260 thousand – will decide the optimal option; he has two options available. The first option is if the holder of the registry account does not open the trading account, the KDD will transfer these securities to the court, the court fee is 1 % of the value and is limited to EUR 450. And here there is an additional question to be asked about the administrative burden of the courts by such a measure, as such applications can be made in tens of thousands. The third option is that a person can cancel securities free of charge, in which case they are deposited in a so-called garbage account and the securities can be taken over from that account within two years; and after two years each potential investor. And here comes an additional problem, this is once again an opportunity for speculators, because register account holders, it's 280 thousand, most probably older people, are usually uninformed investors who won't be able to judge how much their securities are worth at all. This is not a uniform question and it will be very difficult to define and it will be very difficult to assess whether they are worth opening a trading account, whether they prefer to deposit their assets in a garbage account and avoid the cost. But it will be able to accumulate into hundreds of thousands of euros or even millions of assets that someone else will later be able to own. In short, I emphasize and repeat, this is a dilemma whether you're going to be relieved or you're going to be a stockbroker. With the very poor information of these people, what is the value of these shares that they have in their accounts, because these accounts were opened 20 years ago or even more; it is easy to record that an X person has a share in company Y that he received with some certificate in transition. And now after twenty years, I don't know if we're going to make it within the time limits prescribed by this law, to let these people know about the changes or, secondly, to inform them, to provide them [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u75	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u76	More and more as I try to debate, on the one hand and on the other hand, I look at the coalition amendment; I think the amendment and I have hit the nail on the head. I don't think this is about the dilemma of being a salesman or being relaxed. Of course, it is a matter of choosing whether to trade or not to trade securities. At the same time, we have, in some ways, settled any potential serious appetites that would have brought some financial resources at the expense of the current holders of these accounts. We've given a transitional period so that people can decide what to do with it. I don't think I'm going to mention again, all those definitions or all those moments that are written in the coalition amendment to Article 48 are in the interest of all the holders of the securities so far. Plus, I'm sure it's long enough to let people know in time and properly. And I will not repeat this, either, in what way we have tried and achieved; I believe that we will achieve by confirming the amendment that this way of information will also be realized. Comrade Horvat spoke of some schizophrenia — on one side of the social goods and on the other side of small equity. I have spoken in my implementation about the fact that I do not want some groups of people who are older, potentially socially disadvantaged, who at this point have some valuable accounts; whether they are trading with them or not. From this context, it seems strange to me, but I would not like to because these accounts have been free so far; whether or not the potential holder of the account is at risk of not having to pay from this title, even when closing. That's the basic point. It is correct to conclude that we have tried with the amendment to go across from the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, which we estimate is in some way a representative of small shareholders. I think that's the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u77	Irena Sodin, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I would just like to confirm once again that the Share Book is as yet still public and that access to the public of the Share Book is guaranteed by Article 39(5) of the Law. As mentioned several times, the amendment to Article 48 of the Law is, of course, a compromise that will allow holders of securities, unmaterialised securities worth EUR 100, to be placed free of charge in a court of law. Let me mention the number 82 000 and some shareholders who have between €50 and €50, for these people the choice of laying will be free. Also for a few more than ten thousand shareholders with a sum of between 50 and 100 euros. Of course, this solution is compromised because it does not come without a price. For this part, the state budget will have to provide the courts with estimated financial implications of around EUR 300,000. If we went into solutions that covered even greater values, this would result in additional financial implications for the budget. As far as opening commercial accounts is concerned, as has already been said, there is already a competition government on the market and 35 euros is the highest amount I have heard. My colleagues have been checking the data and opening the trading accounts costs up to €14, then there are the costs of maintaining these accounts and keeping accounts, so that we reach the 26 euro circus, which is still almost a third less than what the United Left says. Plus, in the past, we all had free running accounts in banks. These too later came with the cost of keeping accounts and, of course, there was no massive closure of bank accounts in banks. Then I only touch the partial cancellation of the registration accounts. If we had done so, this is not compatible with T2S requirements and therefore those entities in Slovenia who would want to trade and join the European system for settlement of transactions could not have done so. And then there's just an answer to Mr. Horvath about the legacy debates. According to our assessment, there will be no further pressure on the courts because a court case is possible by now. The legacy debates are usually not strictly related to just one element of inheritance, so we estimate that there will be no consequences from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u79	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you. I would like to ask the Madam Secretary why you did not provide the information you have just discussed earlier because we asked you for it. We could prepare our amendment more precisely and have a more informed debate today. At this point, I have to criticize the Ministry because if you have data, it would be good to share them with political parties in the National Assembly who are preparing legislative solutions or amendments for legislative solutions. And second of all, I'd like to make a few objections. Regarding this analogy, bank accounts, register accounts, even then, the bank accounts closed down, but this analogy does not exactly hold because it is very difficult for a person today to survive without a bank account. The register account is a completely different thing, it has had a share loaded there for the last 20 years and is likely to be substantially larger than the bank's. A bank account is something you need in your everyday life. It's not a registry account, but it's an account where people store some property they acquired during the transition. If I give a brief opinion on the amendment tabled by the coalition. This amendment, on the one hand, only delayes discharge for a few months; it does not end. In this respect, our amendment is better. At the same time, the conditions it places are so strict and cumulative that the securities must not be quoted on the stock exchange, from 1. 1. In 2014 the dividend was not paid and the value of the assets in the account does not exceed EUR 100. These conditions are so acute that they will only apply to some junk papers. Here again, I must point out that it is necessary to ask about the administrative burdens of the courts which will be able to determine all of this, including the values of these papers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u81	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Amendments will be decided on Wednesday in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the protection of documentary and archiving buildings and archiving in the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the motion for a bill from Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as I had already announced at the press conference, we tabled a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. With the current archival law, which was then introduced by Dr. Uroš Grilc, the then Minister of Culture of the Ministry of Culture, there was a limitation on access to archival material. The archives of the former secret political police, for which the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in its decision, found or confirmed that it was a criminal organisation that falsified, fabricated or suppressed burdensome evidence, should be highlighted. Victims of such activities, usually political opponents or otherwise-thinking, did not generally have the opportunity to disclose the structures of the Resurrection and Rehabilitation during the period of the regime. By closing these archives, this option has been completely closed. At first glance, the law in force now seems to have opened up access to archival material in some way, but by amending Article 65, paragraph 3, of the Act, which prescribed the anonymisation of personal data, and which no longer differs between victims and perpetrators, it has in a sophisticated way closed access to archival material again, which represents a major step back in the availability of documents and archival materials. The amendment to Article 65 also provided that the archival commission could – the emphasis on "may" – grant researchers and journalists exceptional access to sensitive data, whether or not. Researchers are therefore dependent on the assessment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of each Commission on a case-by-case basis of whether or not they will be able to reach the original document. However, if we are talking about disputed anonymisation, we need to know, as researchers also warn, that in practice this means that archivists must first check all the material and process it properly, it is said to be anonymised. The fascicles are extensive, some have over 700 pages, and the researchers are large, and much less archivists. I think that the Republic of Slovenia currently has two archivists; and if these researchers order more than one file at a time, these matters can be carried out for more than a year. The European Parliament also expressed its regret by adopting the resolution that, 20 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe, access to documents that are important for individuals or necessary for scientific research remains unduly restricted in some Member States. At the same time, it calls on all Member States to make real efforts to open archives, including archives of former internal security services, secret police and intelligence services. Regarding the archives, especially with access to them or not access to them, historian Dr. Tamara Griesser Pečar said the following: "For historians, the proposed changes to the archival law, which is now in force, are fatal. In the absence of access to uncensored material, the display is not credible. Without personal data, it is not possible to disclose, analyse and understand the way the secret political police operate, for which nothing was so low that it could not be used. On the basis of true and false, constructed, morally and politically compromised evidence, Uriah forced people to cooperate. Since he rarely participated voluntarily, Udja, of course, sought faulty points. Since I will continue to talk more about the amendment itself, let me just say about the amendment of the law, because I have only half a minute left for the main solutions to the law to follow the principle of ensuring the right to information to the public. By putting an end to the controversial anonymisation project, we are opening up the entire archive material and at the same time establishing a basis to restore the distinction between victims and holders of public functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u83	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Culture of Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support this law. First of all, I would point out that the applicable law governing the protection of all archival material in the Republic of Slovenia is such that it does not only support a certain part of the material. Unfortunately, this bill focuses on a rather important but quantitatively modest part of the material. Of course, the situation is not as dramatic as it is presented in the assessment of the situation in the bill. The use of archival material alone in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia has not seen any major complications, neither the dissatisfaction of users, nor the apparent decline in their numbers. In practice, almost all researchers can access archive material containing legally protected personal data, access fully and unrestrictedly through the decision of the archival commission. With regard to the problem of the anonymisation procedures, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stresses that these are not intended for researchers, and other users only benefit from these procedures. In the case of researchers, anonymisation takes into account only few users wishing to access material, such as personal files of still living or less than 10 years of deceased persons, who were not available before the current law was enacted, nor through the law, nor through the practice of its implementation. A slightly longer waiting period occurs only in the case of a rare order of larger sets of such material, which can also be found on different media: paper, microfilms, microfiche and so on. On the part of individual users who do not meet the conditions for lodging an application for the granting of exceptional access under Article 66(2) of the ZVDAGA Code, this also in practice means a maximum of a few months of waiting; and by no means more than a year as mentioned in the applicant’s assessment of the situation. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that a slightly longer waiting period is due to the staffing substantiation of archives and very limited resources for digitisation of archival material. The position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is that the existing law takes full account of the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism and also follows the recommendations of the Council of Europe regarding access to archival material. The existing way of protecting the most sensitive personal data is certainly not to unduly restrict access to documents that are essential for individuals or necessary for scientific research. Individuals shall have the opportunity to consult all data relating to them in a variety of archival material, and researchers and journalists shall be able to access all material, including protected personal data, in the event of a positive decision by the archival commission. Such a solution is also fully in line with the Council of Europe's already mentioned recommendation, which clearly states that the laws governing access to public archival material should be in line with the legislation governing related areas, in particular the legislation on access to information held by public authorities and the one providing for data protection. Finally, this is confirmed in the proposal by an international comparison, which shows that the existing law in terms of availability of materials is relatively unrestrictive and user-friendly. He does not know the general deadline for inaccessibility, there are no secret documents before 1990, and the deadlines for the protection of personal data are among the shortest. These are one of the reasons I will probably be able to tell the rest, which is why the Government cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u85	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Andrej Chus, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u86	Dear Minister, Director of the Archives, colleague and colleague! At the outset, I would like to say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, through the proposal of this law and through the opening of archives, we are by no means opening an ideological theme or promoting an ideological fight; but we simply want to establish social standards that are in force in the vast majority of developed countries. I can say it's a general civilisational standard. Archives are open everywhere. For example, they opened them a few months ago in Albania, which is under all the development criteria, we can say, economic development and prosperity behind us, Slovenia. When we talk about the archive area, I cannot help but feel that the political elite, who has been proven to be involved in many unscrupulous works and human rights violations in the past, continues to hide its sins from the past. We can say that in Slovenia we have a group of untouchable former officials who have been allowed to do everything and are obviously allowed to do everything today. I would also like to say that in Slovenia we are having difficulty talking about the area and the existence of archives, because the former non-democratic authorities destroyed them in 90% just before the system collapsed. No one has been responsible for this cultural genocide until today, and I am also surprised by the misdemeanour of former Minister of Culture, Mr Griltz, who, at the time of the referendum campaign, announced to the police the suspicion of a crime against an unknown perpetrator. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know who was then responsible for the state of the archives and who also issued the order for their liquidation or incineration. In 2006, the first Janševa government fully opened archives of the former State Security Service and archives of former political organisations, police and courts for the public. There were no problems with any archives other than the archives of the former State Security Service. Only the archives of the former State Security Service, despite legal provisions, were hidden until the last amendment of the law. When explorer Igor Omerza, a former LDS member, published a book on Edward Kocbek in 2011, it was unlawfully denied access to the archives of the State Security Service. Moreover, in 2011 the government of Borut Pahor wrote a law on the closure of the archives of the State Security Service and adopted it in the National Assembly. But he was firmly rejected by the people at the referendum, and the archives of the State Security Service remained open — at least on paper. In the context of the above, it is not difficult to determine that Dr. Grilc, former Minister of Culture, was not the man who opened the archives. The facts that I've mentioned are rather the other way around. The minister belonged to the left political option. But it is fueled from the past, especially from the former Communist Party, it also declares itself its successor, and it is a little distant from it; of course as far as it pleases it. The former non-democratic authority, however, also had the State Security Service — the political police that held the party in power, including by violating human rights, killings at home and abroad. Of course, we do not need to wonder whether Dr. Grilz or the previous government had opened or closed the archives. Even a year after the implementation of the archive novel and the closure of the archives, it is estimated in the professional public that the situation is even worse than anticipated. Historian Dr. Tamara Griesser Pecar says that her impressions are even worse than when she opposed the adoption of the novel herself. The Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, which was the subject of an unsuccessful referendum on 8 June 2014, entered into force on 22 July of the same year. Among other things, it has changed access to materials slightly and has arranged for their digitisation. With regard to the availability of the novel, it states that the material of former social policy organisations containing sensitive personal data is not freely available; however, the staff in the archive must cover the data prior to the transfer of the material. Access to materials containing sensitive personal data of victims of the former State Security Service has also remained limited following the entry into force of the novel. However, the news is that the user may obtain at least anonymous documents without the Commission’s permission. The new law brought an absurd situation by protecting the perpetrators of crimes in the communist, Nazi and fascist regimes. In addition, waiting for permission from the archival commission for weeks and months extended the time available to the materials. The fact that researchers in our country need permission from the Commission for a comprehensive occupation material is unique throughout Europe. If you are dealing with a recent Slovenian history from 1941 to 1990, you need a commission's permission for almost every material, which causes great problems for researchers. The new Law on Archive Materials merely seemingly opened up material that was previously unavailable or accessible only by permission, since the novel closed access to personal data. In fact, accessibility has decreased. Often anonymised documents are useless because they are not anonymized by the name and surname, but by the content. The name and surname are of no value if there is no content. Also, employees in the Republic of Slovenia have wasted time anonymising personal data instead of doing their work because of the provisions of the novel. With the closure of archives, including the evaluation of archives, the concealment of human rights violations and additional bureaucratic obstacles, we have tabled a new archive law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group at the end of August this year. In a modern European space based on the fight against totalitarianism, it is today unacceptable to selectively condemn only certain types of totalitarianism, and others even to glorify or relativize their crimes or even justify a higher ideological objective. All totalitarianism was based on planned and systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. On 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, taking into account the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights and in the past resolutions already adopted on democracy and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. In order to strengthen the European awareness of the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes, documentation and testimony about the restless European past must be supported, since there can be no reconciliation without memory. Even a nation that does not know its roots has no future; or, as historian Stéphane Courtois has formulated, no society can survive without a sense of justice, memory, and history. The proposed amendments and additions lay the groundwork by which the archive material will actually be opened; without the technical closure of the anonymisation archives, as foreseen by the novel which was adopted, it provided for the concealment of personal data, without any distinction between the victims and the perpetrators. It introduced the inaccessibility of personal data of public function holders, which in fact represents a sophisticated way of closing or restricting access to archival material. We will support the proposed changes and the opening of archives in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u87	The text shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and, on its behalf, by Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u88	Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to inform you of the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group tabled a proposal for amendments to the archival law, as they are convinced that the law adopted by the National Assembly last January limited access to archival material. The proposal states that they follow the principle of ensuring the right to information to the public or to an individual when accessing public archival material. The current law fully regulates the protection of documentary and archival material in physical and electronic form. It is a very complex matter and since direct implementation has been established by law and administrative practice in the past has shown that certain amendments or additions to certain articles are necessary, amendments to the law were adopted last year. Let me stress that it has been fully coordinated with the professional, the information officer, the intelligence security service and also with the Ombudsman. The Desus Group supported the bill. The new archival law did not in any way close the archives, but only disposed of inappropriate solutions in this area, with the broad agreement of the archival profession. The amendments had to be adopted as the unconstitutionality of the law at that time was also noted in his reports by the Ombudsman and addressed the Constitutional Court with a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of its provisions. The Ombudsman and the Information Officer expressed their support for the amendment of the Law last year, since it is only more appropriate and constitutionally regulated by access to archival material. It is essential to point out that the novel has for the first time established that no archival material is no longer available. The former law had restricted access to certain materials, and with the amendment of the Law, the archives had been opened more than ever. We know what followed. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group used the amendment of the archive law for political accounting. There has been a reopening of ideological themes and the promotion of the division of the Slovenian people. An invitation to tender has been submitted with the first signed by Mrs Eva Irgle. Although the request for a referendum was submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. In the Desus Group, however, we believe that the will of citizens must be respected. Last June, a referendum was held and voters showed with low participation what they thought about political accounting, ideological topics and the supposed closure of archives. Fewer than 12% of the electorate came to vote. The referendum candidates failed, failed to convince voters with their arguments about closing the archives. And since they have this option, they have put a proposal for a amendment to the law with a referendum content into the legislative process. So today we will discuss again the matters that we discussed last year, and then we will go to the polls; but apparently some are not interested in the will of the people who elected us to the National Assembly. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that we were not elected to discuss ideological topics that separate citizens; at a time when we should be more than ever connected and work together to benefit the country. Members and Members of the Desus Group will not support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u89	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well-known Minister and Director of the Archives; colleagues and colleagues! With the bill before us, thanks to the proponents, this national assembly will once again deal with the past in place of the future – today with archives, tomorrow with a proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage. In both cases, it is only for the proponents to continue to run their cultural battle story and prove their conspiracy theories. The bill provides for the following solutions. All the material in the archives created before 1990 would become public without restrictions, paragraph 65, shortening the deadlines for the non-availability of materials, changing the tasks of the archiving commission. We are opposed to this law by the Social Democrats because we consider it unnecessary. In Slovenia we have a well-ordered area of archival material from the point of view of accessibility, as stated by the Ministry of Culture. The law currently in force does not know the general date of non-accessibility, there are no secret documents before 1990, and the deadlines for the protection of personal data are generally shorter than those in other countries. The Ministry of Culture explains that occasional waiting periods of several months are not a rule, as the applicant states. They are produced by requirements for rare material in large-scale assemblies. Talking about more than a year's waiting period, as the proposalr put it, is nothing more than deceiving. On this proposal, we ask ourselves why it is necessary to change people's lives. Our answer is none. What, then, would be the reason for such suggestions?Oh, my God! Perhaps the fact that some obviously want to have access to the material at all times and everywhere is the reason why they want to continue searching in the past, while also retaining the exclusive right to interpret the data they are about to obtain. We have seen and seen stories when every mention of a person in the archives before independence is evidence of his cooperation with the former regime, the secret services and so on. Obviously, the debate on this law has no other purpose than to re-focus on the old system, on the forces of continuity, and on the other hand, the terms that the applicant so likes to use. Of course, scientific research must be enabled – and it is. Sensitive personal data must be protected — and they are. However, the proposal before us would unduly interfere with the protection of personal data, but it is still unclear. Personal data of individuals cannot always be freely accessible, especially if there is a risk of being misused for anything other than this on behalf of scientific research. Social Democrats do not support such regulation in the area of archival materials, nor do we support the law proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u91	The text shall be given by the Group of Members of the United Left, in its name Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. It is not difficult to guess, in the United Left we estimate that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration by the SDS. On the issue of documentary and archival material, we should be guided by a clear principle — public interest, not state interest, not private; not party interest at all. It is crucial to look at the actual accessibility situation, the practice in this area. Researchers do not face major problems when accessing archive material; access is fully satisfactory. Public interest also has limits. One of them is information about individuals who could disclose sensitive information about it. Anonymousness is common and necessary in these cases. It is material relating to the health status of an individual, to the sexual life of an individual, to the victims of crimes against sexual inviolability, marriage, families, and children, and others. It is clear to all that this is sensitive data which could be unpleasant for at least two family generations. Nobody has the right to search criminal records, medical records and so on. Anonymization applies to the records of still living people and those who have been deceased for less than 10 years. Why, then, should such a law be changed, especially since the law fell to the referendum once upon the will of the people. The right always draws on the day of so-called demons of communism. Everywhere he sees the red conspiracy and the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, even though we have been living in capitalism for 25 years now; even in its neoliberal version in a good decade. Nevertheless, anti-communism is a constant not only of Slovenian, but even of European conservatives, it is a key part of their political ideology, which is why archives are so handy, as they can always find new stories in their witch hunt. If not otherwise, but also by manipulating documentary material which was taped and drawn up years ago by the same party in a way that would tarnish the former President of the State of Danil Türk. And we could list it. Archives as a treasure trove of stories for those who are loudly calling for lustration. The proposal reiterates its reference to the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. We do not agree to the mark 'totalitarianism', which attempts to equalize the Nazi, fascist and communist regimes with empty generalization, with the right hand only to demonize the latter. It is not that we may not acknowledge the severe suffering of people affected by fascism or communist regimes; it is because this mark actually gives an extremely idealized image of Western parliamentary democracy or Euro-Atlantic integration. Finally, let me say that we would also like the SDS party to direct its strength towards the future, because there are still many common challenges ahead. The proposed changes are not driven by public interest and professional judgement, but by narrow private and party interests that want to exploit sensitive private information for their narrow client interests. In the United Left, we will vote against further consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u93	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u94	Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Christian Democrats welcome any constructive debate on common issues that can help to reveal the truth. Archivism is a very sensitive area, especially in our country, when many wounds have not yet been healed. Access to important documents during and after World War II is the basis for finding the truth about this period. It is precisely because of the latter that we have now accepted the current amendment with great restraint. During its consideration, we also proposed different solutions, which were not supported at the time. For example, at a meeting of the committee, we proposed, with an amendment, deleting an article that introduces anonymisation, but only Nova Slovenija voted for our amendment. At that time, the professional and political public united themselves that anonymisation is the most appropriate solution for opening access to archival material. We Christian Democrats have adopted the opinion of the profession and the policy. Today we can already make the first assessment of the implementation of the adopted law last year. In principle, according to the assessment of a number of experts, researchers, journalists and other users of archival materials, the law has significantly expanded the availability of archive material. In fact, all material is now available to researchers, investigators and journalists. In the event of a positive decision by the archival commission, sensitive personal data without anonymisation shall also be made available to them. On the other hand, the users of the archive point to a marked increase in administrative procedures or red tape. In Nova Slovenija we note that the previous government did not keep the promises it made at the time of the adoption of the law. The archive did not receive funds intended for human resources reinforcement. Nor has the archive been allocated funds to speed up the digitisation of the archive material, which in our view would really allow the archives to be fully opened. These shortcomings are also recognised by the current government in its opinion on the proposed novel. The novels, which we are going to discuss in general today, propose three major changes to the law now in force. Firstly, access to sensitive data of persons who were not institutions of public functions is limited. In this provision, we have no problem with Christian Democrats, since it is not significantly affected by the law currently in force. The audience was largely accompanied by people who were not public officials and very few personal data material on officials. We believe that it is right to make this change effective. Second, there's no anonymization. In view of our position on the consideration of the previous novel, we also have no problem with this. However, it is not entirely clear how access to materials containing protected personal data, which is in accordance with the law, will be technically regulated. Exclusion of documents containing this data would be a step backwards, in our view. We expect that today's general debate and possible further consideration of the law will find appropriate solutions for this part of the change. Thirdly, deadlines are laid down for the decision of the archival commission and the government on the availability or non-availability of materials. While the Government points out in its opinion that the proposed deadlines are difficult to implement. Christian Democrats, however, believe that it is right to put on real hands that can be held on. We also invite all those involved to view the archive material as a whole. Only a small part of this whole is also preserved the archival material of the Udba, which is very important and difficult. Sadly, though, the vast majority of this material has been destroyed, which is an unacceptable crime for us. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats for the proposed amendment of the archival law in principle support; we hope that some of the proposed solutions will be finalized and complemented in today's general debate. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposed novel in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u95	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u96	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In view of the analysis of the problem so far and in view of the discussions that took place before the year in this House, we believe that this topic should be rounded up in substance. The topic can be politically abused and we certainly advocate that we do not politically abuse these themes and solve the matter in its entirety. The bill has already been in similar forms in consideration, so I think it is right to point out some things. The main thing is to allow researchers access as quickly as possible, which is not happening in all cases now; if we know how researchers need this information as soon as possible. In view of the applications for projects, especially in Europe, where the deadlines are short, it would be appropriate to allow these researchers to work as quickly as possible. As far as investigative journalists are concerned, it is right to advocate that this public interest is as high as possible; but that these investigative journalists do act as investigative journalists and not in their own interests or in the interest of what they work for. This means the proper work of a journalist, which allows both parties to clarify certain data. It is important to think about the future, namely the transition to electronic forms and the fact that accessibility is as fast and as best as possible. Of course, we should not forget that there are then various forms of cybercrime, data abuse, pretenses, and the like. This is the meaning of this legislation and such amendments are to be confirmed. The Group of Non-Aligned Members will vote in accordance with its conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u97	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u98	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Director of the Archives, I welcome you all very much; dear colleagues and colleagues, including you! The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre opposes the proposed amendment to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives because it is unnecessary. Moreover, we are convinced that its application would have harmful consequences for the protection of sensitive personal data of living persons or persons who have been dead for less than ten years. The essence of the novel proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is the focus only on one very small segment in a wide-ranging archive problem, which is the protection of sensitive personal data in the material that was created before 17 May 1990. Content means the requirement to return to the old access regime, which was in force before the entry into force of the current archival law and has proved to be extremely weak, unclear and problematic. The current archival law was passed last year in the wake of considerable political noise, which occurred in the reckoning on the right-hand side of the Slovenian political space and in the failed referendum. Last year's broad debate in the referendum campaign has shown that there is an entirely unjustified opposition to the existing archival law and to the public squandering, if this law creates archival material in the previous one-party system, is now not available. This certainly did not frighten citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and they rejected the Slovenian Democratic Party's manoeuvre with a result that was in all respects eloquent. It should be pointed out that the applicable Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives does not change in any way the principle that data in archive material from May 1990 is fully accessible; with the sole exception of the protection of sensitive personal data. The current law has also allowed this principle to be implemented smoothly in practice as it has addressed some serious legal shortcomings, contradictions and also uncertainties that have actually prevented the implementation of the purpose of the law. In summary, the definition of sensitive personal data was simply transferred from the Personal Data Protection Act in the previous law. Among them, political conviction was also identified as sensitive personal information, leading to a kind of absurdity, as the entire archive fund of the former State Security Service, for example, should then be closed. This service, for its part, has mostly dealt with these methods or methods of violating human rights, has spied on its citizens to obtain information about their political beliefs. The current law, however, gives a taxive indication of all categories of sensitive personal data that are meaningfully protected in archival material, since the latter differs significantly from the material that is still alive or in active use. The law in force removes ambiguity as to what is considered to be a violation of human rights; this was one of the conditions for the protection of sensitive personal data. The proposed novel re-establishes this ambiguity. The previous law could not answer what was considered to be a public function holder and was not justified in protecting its sensitive personal data. Questions were raised as to whether, when sensitive personal data of former officials were made available to all and to everyone, the constitutional principle of the right to privacy was not violated. It is not clear what information, for example, about which disease a former party official is being designated, or with whom and in what way he has been sexually communicating; however relevant to uncovering the undemocratic practices of the former regime. The latter law regulates this irregularity in accordance with constitutional principles, while the proposed amendment re-places public function holders in the previous regime in an unequal and unclear position with regard to the protection of the constitutional right to privacy. The law in force focuses on data protection in the material, not on material as such. The introduction of anonymisation allows partial access to archive material by covering sensitive personal data of persons who are still alive or dead for less than ten years; the rest is freely accessible to anyone. An amendment to paragraph 4 of the current law would remove the provision that only individual documents could be identified as unavailable. The possibility of accessing the material in an anonymised form would also be discarded. I add the following, the current law specifies exactly who is entitled to look into the material, with sensitive personal data. These are researchers and journalists who, by a decision of the archival commission, can fully access the archive material with sensitive personal data of value; if the archival commission considers that this is justified or justified for the purpose of the research. According to the archive, the process is carried out to the satisfaction of users without complications. It is also to the satisfaction of all those too many dissatisfied researchers cited by the applicant. In order for the implementation of this amendment, the proponent of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to constitute a major step backwards in the regulation, organisation and implementation of the protection of documentary material, they also confirm the views and assessments of the Ombudsman, the Information Officer and, as is said, the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the introduction of the novel would present exactly such problems, we therefore strongly oppose the adoption of the proposed amendment, with the same problems and the uncertainties that we have faced before the adoption of the current archival law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u99	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. The European Parliament resolution of April 2009 called on all members of the European Union to work towards the opening of archives, including all those parts of archives relating to the former internal security intelligence services, the secret police and so on. It is necessary to preserve the memory of the past, however that may sound, or whatever it may be in the National Assembly and in public, for we learn many lessons from the past. And the past is not only beautiful memories, beautiful monuments and buildings, as the President of the State of Pahor said at one ceremony, that we should remember only the beautiful moments, let us forget the dark ones and stay behind. I can add, so let's keep them somewhere in the dark shelf archives. Unfortunately, the memories of history are not only beautiful, you probably know that; they are bad, they are dark. And some very much want these dark moments that they have experienced in the past to be forgotten or cleared up, so they are searching for their right today. And closing the archives, if we can call it that, what happened with the amendment of the law in 2014 and 2013, means prolonging their agony and their bad pasts. On the other hand, some want to hide their sins from the past and therefore support such closure of archives. The amendment to Article 65 provided for the anonymisation of personal data. It prescribed or stipulated that victims and enforcers and perpetrators should be equalized, which is certainly not good for those who are victims who are seeking their right. Historians warned before the adoption of the law and today warn that their work is very difficult. Today, we can see what kind of document they get from the archives — they also get the entire A4 black pages, painted because it is necessary to hide the personal information of some who are written there. The Minister said a while ago, quote: "The archivic material is extremely important for the identity of the individual and the community and for the development of democracy." However, it has designated the archiving activity as a human rights institution. In addition, the Director of the Archives, Mr Cvelfar, stressed that they are aware that the Slovenian public does not know enough of the archives and that the Slovenian public is aware that the archives are not only a cultural heritage, but that the archival documents also represent a legally proven value for the country and for the individual. There is no way in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we can agree that what we are proposing is a private or party interest; it is a matter of public interest that some things are revealed in return. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to develop democracy in our society, we must allow both beautiful and bad memories from Slovenian history; because it teaches us and warns us not to repeat certain mistakes in the future. If we close the archives, allow our testimony and confessions, and deny our history, then nothing good will come to us in the future, for history cannot be forgotten, silenced, or imprisoned in archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Janja Sluga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Minister, the Honourable Director of the Archives! Personally, I have some personal experience with the Archives so far, and I must say that all experience is positive. The archive is handed over to the competent historical archive, as well as an insight into the material it holds, have always taken place without difficulty and without waiting. However, the quantity and diversity of the material stored by the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia is very large; and that is why I do not understand today's proposal by the proposer, which focuses only on one very small piece of this material. It is also generally difficult to understand why we are again dealing with this subject, which is the re-discovery of a past; on the other hand, there is no problem in practice, as I have been able to detect from many of the conversations I have had. I note, however, that the evaluation of the applicant's situation in this proposal contains a number of dramatic points, which in my opinion have no artistic value or art whatsoever. We have received a number of responses and opinions to our Group of Members, and all these responses and all these opinions are the same. If we look at the opinion of the information officer, the opinion of the Ombudsman and also the opinion of the Republic of Slovenia Archives, I really do not think that there is anything more to add to this. The archive, the profession, and most of the users with whom I spoke, do not share the opinion of the applicant and believe that the amendment does not cause any problems. In fact, it allows significantly wider access to the archive than it used to be. It is also available material that has been inaccessible under previous archival legislation to researchers and journalists. In accordance with Article 66 of the Law, this material is fully available after the decision of the Commission, i.e. by personal data. The claim that the new archival law prevents researchers from doing research is absolutely not true. As for the materials of the former State Security Service, much more material has been made publicly available. In practice, almost all researchers have access to the material in a comprehensive and unlimited manner through the decision of the archival commission. An exception is the personal data of still living persons or less than ten years of deceased persons. In some very rare individual cases, when it comes to very extensive material, they must wait up to two months; however, they do not hold the information cited by the applicant to wait more than a year. Also, data on the use of archival material or the visit to both archives of the Republic of Slovenia Archives, which appeared in the media, that the readers were alone and that research work had thus stopped, were not maintained. This is what the statistics of use have been about, in the last ten months after the introduction of the novel in these readings, thousands of 918 visits and 2 thousand 637 reviews. The data he showed up doesn't hold. As the Minister has mentioned today, the international comparison shows that the existing law is unrestrictive and user friendly in terms of accessibility. The bottom line is that today's proposal on our tables, if we take it, would be a big step back. The material to be accessible is now accessible and personal data, which are a constitutionally protected category, are adequately protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! We have spoken several times in this Chamber, us and our predecessors, on this subject. The left and right policies always have four, five themes that constantly appear on the agendas of our national assemblies. These are always those topics, at least as politics sees, which in some way keeps our electorates lined up because we constantly warm and warm our views of past history or of our greatest pain – those that continue to divide us in some way and do not enrich us, weaken us as a nation, especially in view of the events we witness in these weeks, months, or years. Even if we are part of this European family, we cannot find any answers to this. Then shall we always turn to the past: four, five of these are continually resurrected. Nevertheless, I see a positive shift here, last year, when a referendum was launched on this subject, on a similar subject, there was a clear signal from 12% of the people present at the referendum that people reject such topics. People feel, feel that we are always returning them to the past when we face the problems of modern times; we are constantly talking about the past. It is understandable that certain wounds are open, but by opening up, we will never heal them. People are most likely indignant when we talk about it again today. I see that fellow Members are aware that when we look at the list of those who should speak before me, this is a few times less than anticipated. We can see that today's debate is going to be shorter, which is a strong signal for politics and politics, because we need to be aware that at the very front of our perception of modern times, modern problems to which we are witnessing, as I said before, what we are witnessing now, what is happening at the border. I must say, however, that Slovenia is in a better moral condition, given that 2.7% economic growth is forecast for us by the end of the year, so that we can expect that in the coming year, if circumstances make it possible for the magical limit of unemployment to fall below 100,000 people. But politics is constantly returning, as we are witnessing today, at least some policy, to those topics that constantly open our wounds. I'd avoid it. True, people have said their own, but yet we have learned nothing from it when we speak of people who have spoken their own. I refer mainly to last year's referendum, which was held. The answer was clear – 12% of participants are clear enough to start dealing with things that touch people in 2015; not with what has happened in the past. Once the Slovenians are aware of this, we may be able to better deal with the problems of modern times. And that is what people expect from us, so it is my call to hold this debate in a human and cultural way; but in the future with a view to the future, not in the past. So far, so much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I must say that I have listened very carefully to the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members and to the debate so far. It is necessary to respond to some of the observations you have made, in particular the representatives of the parliamentary groups, when you presented the views of the members of the groups. I must say, there have been many flat-rate findings and also incorrect claims. First of all, as far as ideological topics are concerned, Mr Hainz, you are now holding a meeting of the National Assembly, but on behalf of the Desus Group, you were talking about the Slovenian Democratic Party with this archival building law opening an ideological theme to politicise. It certainly doesn't hold, and I'll tell you why. Because the destruction of the archive material that happened with us — and the largest, the largest mass stage — was in 1990, exactly a month before the first democratic elections. At that time, Mr Ivan Eržen, the former chief of State Security, gave the mandatory instruction that mass destruction of material, in particular the State Security Service or the former Judgment, should be carried out. But that, Sir Hainz, is not an ideological question. A genocide, a cultural genocide against the Slovenian people has been committed and no one has ever been responsible for this crime. And that is certainly not an ideological question. Secondly, it is a topic that speaks exclusively of the protection of human rights and respect for the human dignity of victims. Therefore, I do not allow anyone in this national council to say that it is ideology and politicization. It is possible to rehabilitate those people who have not had this opportunity through open archives. If you prevent these victims of the communist regime from closing the archives, what have you done? Ask each of you what you've done with this. And it's not about ideology and politics, it's only about protecting the integrity and dignity of the victims. The third thing, the referendum, is constantly repeating how we failed the referendum. But if you have followed the referendum campaign well, as well as before, what happened with the archival material, Mr Cvelfar, director of archival material, who is with us today, he knows very well how things were going. Then you will remember that in 2011 we had our first referendum on archival material. Why? Because the Borut Pahor government closed down the archival material. At that time, more than 70% of citizens and citizens in the referendum said they wanted open archives; but how interestingly, then the director of the Archive, Mr Matić, who would then have a word and today is a member of the SMC, was against opening the archives. Against the subject. However, citizens and citizens made it clear at the referendum that we must open up access to archival material, as did the Czech Republic or Germany. This was said by citizens and citizens, in more than 70%. Now, as regards the serious deception of all coalition members, we had a second referendum on archival material, because then the government of Alenka Bratušek or Minister Uroš Grilc, through the anonymisation project, restricted access to archival material. The archival material is technically closed, and we are not making this up, but it is also proven now by the practice, the practice in the Archives. Those who know how the anonymisation process is going on, then you know that this is a long-term process, not to point out that anonymisation is not at all what it really should be. Anonymousness means only blackness of the name and surname, but not the other content. But with us, anonymization is the opposite, which means that the name and surname are left for anyone to see, and then everything goes black. We have documents that are completely blacked out. That's the kind of document a researcher gets. I don't know where I have it here, but I'm going to show you later on what some document wants to get from a researcher who's researching some substance, some content; and then there's nothing from the document. But this is a document that this particular researcher, for example, had previously obtained in archival material — original, not black. And after this marriage he became black, I'll say, almost entirely. You can't say this is an open archive. This marriage has no spirit of openness, but a spirit of incarceration. That's the problem. The second referendum on archival material failed due to quorum. It's the quorum, not the content that's essential. Otherwise, citizens and citizens rejected in almost 70% the bad law of Minister Uroš Grilc, which closes the archives; in what way, we have already explained. Those three key points that we are talking about today, or I would like you to talk about it, because it is so casual to talk about certain claims that the Slovenian Democratic Party is dealing with some ideological topics, is not going anywhere. Why did we decide to recast the archival building law? Firstly, because the right to information is a key right of each individual. The right to information is over the right to privacy of perpetrators of crimes. A similar case also appeared in the case of the German President. Maybe more about that later. On the other hand, we're putting an end to controversial anonymization. I mentioned earlier that the anonymisation project is long-term. We have in the Republic of Slovenia Archives – I think the director can confirm this today – only two archives dealing with it. And if he wants to order some researcher, a publicist, a historian who wants to cover an area that wants to explore this, more files at the same time, then it's up to him to black out these documents. Many times this document, when blacked out, may also come to be completely useless, as the profession also points out. For historians, only a document that is original is of exclusive use. One who explores an area must be aware that it must protect personal data, but that has been the case so far. This can also be confirmed by the director of the Archives that researchers, historians, and those who use the archive have always followed suit. I don't think there's a case where someone misuses data, there's no case. That's why I think it's important to be specific about these things. And thirdly, it seems important to me that we, too, have even troubled the referendum campaign to end the equalization of victims and perpetrators of crimes with this amendment of the law. Again, I am surprised – instead of protecting the integrity of the victims by coalition Members, you are protecting the integrity of the perpetrators of crimes; that is, those who have gravely violated human rights and the communist regime has also eliminated them. So much for a start.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished Director of the Archives, dear colleague and colleague! Dear Mrs Irgle likes to talk a lot about archives. We invite her to come forward after this meeting with me to explain to her what the difference between archivists and archivists is, because apparently archivists are not too domestic, although she is very confident in explaining certain things. While mixing apples and pears, mixing two referendums, mixing the protection of classified data, which was the subject of the first referendum, with the protection of sensitive personal data, which was the subject of the second referendum; but these are topics not discussed today. We'd like to talk about a novel made by the SDS. In my debate, I will try to present the essence of today's debate in concrete terms. After all, the public that listens to us often wonders why it is actually going, and cannot understand exactly why we are arguing here when we are talking about the legal arrangements for access to the archive material that arose during the previous one-party regime. The 2006 archiving law, prepared by the government of Janez Janša and adopted by the then National Assembly, laid down some simple principles. Firstly, all the material of the institutions of the former totalitarian regime is freely available without restriction. Secondly, the only exception is material containing sensitive personal data of living persons or persons who have been dead for less than ten years. And the third principle, which is an exception to the second principle, can also be accessed or viewed with sensitive personal data, should the research interest or public interest become aware of the functioning of the former regime prevails over the interest of protecting the privacy of the individual. And the new archival law, or novel, that was adopted last year, did not interfere in any way with these principles of the previous law. The only purpose of the novel in this work – because we need to know that, while this novel is very extensive, the new law also interferes with other areas of archivistism, which are unfortunately rarely discussed in this house – was to clarify the implementation of these principles that I have discussed and adopted by the previous coalition in the 2006 National Assembly. The type of provisions has been awkwardly written in the old law, some of which my colleagues have already talked about, for example, the current law, which is now in force, has appropriately defined what those sensitive personal data that are protected in the law are. For example, before you had an absurdity that the law prohibited access to material containing data on racial or national beliefs. According to this principle, we could close, according to my grave assessment, up to 20 or 30 % or even more of the archival material, not just the material of the SDV or anything else that is of interest to colleagues from the SDS. The current law, which is still in life, has removed excessive restrictions, as the material was completely inaccessible if it contained sensitive personal data. Now the law protects the data, not the material, and the remaining material is accessible if that sensitive information is anonymized. Furthermore, the law clarified the exceptions, who and when can and under which conditions of access to the material as a whole; also with sensitive personal data, with a view to a journalistic or scientific study, of course, if previously given a positive decision by the archival commission. And last but not least, non-democratic discrimination has been eliminated in protecting sensitive personal data of former officials, which was also very controversial from a constitutional point of view as former regime officials have been denied the protection of their sensitive personal data. This was very controversial in view of the categories of modern democratic society that set clear standards in this regard. It is also not clear from a very practical point of view why information on the private life of a party official would be available to everyone and anyone, for example, how he got along with his wife, whether he was beating her or her; and how this would contribute to the dark history of the single party regime. These are very sensitive intimate data that should be protected during the life of this individual or for at least ten years after his death. In summary, with the applicable law, one of the most liberal access regimes in Europe has been upgraded and operationalised. You can meet anonymisation anywhere, in any country you go to Europe, with the exception of the Czech Republic, they know anonymisation everywhere. Even if you access Stasi's material, you will only be able to wait half a year for information or data; you can wait a year and a half to access the anonymized material. The law cleared up some of the ambiguities of the previous Janša government law and there is no rational argument here why we should go back to the previous situation when the situation was very confusing and unclear. This is also evident from the inspection records and, for example, the fact that the archival commission is in the present composition, rather than assessing in accordance with its legal powers, the archive sent to Parliament to obtain an authentic explanation of the law, what is the sensitive personal information, who is the official and other details that were very unclear. Now, a little bit about the very text of the novel that is ahead of us. It is understood that in the types of SDS, fear that the law in force, I quote their words in explanation, "really represents a sophisticated way of closing or restricting access to archival material". Now let's try to simplify this; when I come to the archive room and I want material that contains sensitive personal data, the staff will warn me that the latter is not freely accessible and then I have two ways to go. For the first time, to send an application to the archival commission, in which I will base a scientific or research objective, that is to say, the purpose of looking at why I want to see all the material with sensitive personal data of still living people. Alternatively, if I am not a researcher, I can request an overview of the anonymised material, i.e. copies of the material on which sensitive personal data are blackened. To illustrate, if you remember a popular song with the ref Magnifico is gay, the chorus would read, "... [[pip or blackened]] ...is gay" or "Magnifico is... [[pip or blackened]] ".." And all the other information, except for these types, for example, about the crimes of the party, the Udba and so on, would remain freely available to everyone in the document. That's anonymization. Finally, when it comes to deciding who can see intimate information about another living person in the archive, the archival commission has a key role to play. In view of the panic reactions of the SDS, one would think that in the archival committee itself, the red stubborns of the type Matija Cat or Stana Dolanc, who would prevent good researchers of totalitarianism from accessing this material. But look at him, you piece of shit, it's not like that. The Commission was appointed by the second government of Janez Janša in 2012. Who's sitting on an archive committee with scissors and a canvas in his hands? President Andreja Valič Zver, prominent and dedicated member of the SDS. The next member is Jernej Letnar Černič – a lawyer who does not even hide his political preferences and is a right-wing thunderbolt who is not significantly different from Lovr Šturm in his views. The third member is Pavle Jamnik, a prominent researcher of hidden graves or battlefields of interwar and postwar beatings; for example, known for having literally filed a complaint against Mitja Ribičič in the light of the RTV headlights. The fourth member is Dr. Matevž Košir, who is trusted by the SDS because she appointed him director of the Republic of Slovenia Archives in the previous decade. And the fifth member is an archivist covering the SDV fund, which is there to help the archival commission with information that it can work better. That's the archival commission. Its mandate expires only in May 2017, and this cannot be a problem, nor could anyone want to replace this commission. So what's the problem? Maybe in the fact that the SDS doesn't trust the archival commission, where the people they named them themselves are. And now, with its proposal to this archival commission, it sets absolutely impossible conditions for work, namely that it must respond within five days to the request of a user wishing to access sensitive personal data. My lords, in five days we shall not be gathered together for the meeting: except that we may call the meeting, and give the members the opportunity to study the material for the meeting. I'm really wondering what the problem is right now. It may be that the law does not allow freckles and passovers or random passovers to reach the archive reader’s office before the cold and to shorten their time by reading archive material, full of sensitive personal data from still living people. All those who are researchers and journalists are given a decision by Mrs Valič Zver and her commission, in all cases; except when it comes to the personal files of other living persons under the supervision of the Ustva. It is obvious, however, that Mrs Valič Zver and the members of this Commission, which I have previously listed, cannot go beyond moral and ethical principles and do not allow the various Mr Lejaks and similar to look at these sensitive personal data. That's obviously their judgment. And then we get to those black photocopiers you like to call. Why would anyone have access to sensitive personal data from any other living person or person less than ten years old? Researchers and research journalists for the interest of objective research and public information – yes, this is undeniable. The archiving commission works well, simplifies procedures. That no one will think that I have anything against those people I counted. I just mentioned what their preferences were, how they were politically profiled according to their work and their statements. But I don't have a problem with that either, I just wanted to make it clear that the archival commission has no intentions or no clues to protect the crimes of the former system or data on these crimes. I believe that the adoption of the proposed novel, as presented, would be a major step backwards and really have no other purpose than to bring the parliamentary debate back into the field — now Mrs Irgle will be sad — of the fruitless ideological struggles around the alleged problems that do not actually exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I guess I don't think there's gonna be a round of applause like my predecessor's. There was a lot of laughter in the debate, too, and I think and I'm sure this topic isn't funny. When our predecessors in this Chamber spoke many times about changes in the law, as a young citizen, I understood that it hurt one to fear that this door, if I could call it, would begin to open. Since this was so close to the former regime, it was clear to me. All the Member States of the European Union have, as we have already heard today, called on all the members of the European Parliament to open this door in 2009 to do so. Some European countries have adopted a positive attitude towards the past, the present and the future; in the Republic of Slovenia, we have always had a problem with this. 25 years after the independence of this National Assembly, many Members and Members of Parliament have changed; many of us are younger, even now it would be very difficult to go into deep history because I was not born at the time. I think that this proposal and the area we are talking about again is not funny; even less than we have heard many times in this Chamber that there is some kind of political revenge. This is difficult to understand, what political revenge and with whom. I think that this is an important part of the past, very important for the present, and especially important for our future. When we hear a lot about this from a variety of experts, I feel like we're comparing these archives to our beautiful apartment that everyone has with them at home in which we live. We want to clean this place up nicely, but we're afraid to open the closet in the living room or the bedroom where it smells. I fully understand the Director and my predecessor, especially my predecessor, and I understand his debate. This certainly is not in the interests of our present and future, but we can also say that there is a politically responsible person in this area. I will support this bill with all my responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Tanya Zink. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I have listened in detail to all previous debaters, including the presentation of other positions of the parliamentary groups, and in my opinion I must oppose all those who think that we are discussing a past today. Whatever we look at, it is true that many do not want to deal with such things, even young people; but it is precisely this painful past that still places a heavy burden on us and somehow hinders us in our further development of the country. These things are still quite present, old patterns of thinking are present today, I can say, in all other areas of government, state property, politics and could still be listed. I take today's debate as a debate on the future, and yet I would expect a greater understanding, as well as a consensus that we must clear up what we had in the past, to go unburdened in the future. But this is what we will do when people who have done unethical things and business are responsible for it, as in all other developed countries. And when this past and some ideology may cease to burden us, but it must come on the agenda; not that we are setting ourselves in the midst of Ljubljana a statue, because the statues will do nothing until things change in our heads. And in our heads, we need to start thinking about each individual, not putting up a concrete statue in Ljubljana today, and thinking that now we have done something to make things right. I would also like to say that when we touch on the debate on the future here, we have tabled 35 legislative proposals in the mandate of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. I would count three or four: the law on measures in the field of traineeship, the law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people, the law on dual education, perhaps a very current Penal Code. What happened? You're rejecting everything. Sometimes I think, it sucks to try, because a priori coalition – a so-called moral coalition, sometimes a rainbow – votes against. Not because something is badly written, but because it's from the opposition, from the SDS. And I can't wait for you, too, a coalition; before that one Member spoke – let's talk about the future. Let's go. I cannot wait, let's talk, put in some legislative proposals and procedures. However, it will be difficult to discuss the present and future if the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence has not been out of sight for a week; we have a migrant crisis here. Please don't make fun of me. Who's got someone here for a fool?Oh, my God! And when we talk about cooperation and policy integration, we have tabled 35 legislative proposals; we have said that we are investing them in first reading, let us step together, find the best solutions. What happens – "Eh, no, this is from SDS". Let's talk about the future and solve the current problems. Tell me how a person should even have a desire and motive to propose, but if everything is rejected like a stream of liquid tape. The only law that went through was bound by the appointment of the European Commissioner and the appointment to the European Central Bank in Frankfurt. There was nothing else to go through. We talk a lot about the future and are looking for solutions to the real problems; but here this charge somehow is not, reform is not, we are committed to. It seems to me that all of this government's work is going on like this – one year we're collecting data, the next year we're doing a little bit of analysis, the third year we're looking for solutions, and the fourth year is the elections. And that's how this cycle in politics changes. Not here to deceive people and lie about allowing ourselves to talk about the future, but if it is just a floscule and a password that is constantly used by one and the same individuals. Be honest with yourself, do nothing at all, and that's a fact. Here some Members even laugh at debates that are very sensitive and important, but sometimes we need to adjust the mirror a little; and we need to set it up for politicians. Half the MPs of the coalition – without us knowing them from the opposition, let alone not be known by the electorate and the voters who gave them the vote. That's how it goes, I'm sorry. We can either look down now or up like anyone wants, but I don't know how someone can sleep here peacefully, or some. When it comes to laughing and having a debate circle in the National Assembly, that is; when it comes to exposing yourself and defining what to do, then God forbid that there is something to be said. The easiest thing to do is to read a piece of paper written by a professional collaborator and then add one or two more of its sentences — and prepare an excellent political paper. That's what politics looks like. It seems that politics in Slovenia has also become a third- league policy and I don't even know what to think. On the other hand, today I have listened to a lot of morally-rated debates, each of them being morally defined by our proposal. I will say so – some Members and Members here have already been called off by the Constitutional Court in this mandate. The one who has done this Constitutional Court to you is, in my opinion, the last person you can moralize and reason here is what and how. Fact: The Constitutional Court is, in my opinion, an instance that we must all respect if you do not listen to me, and you will probably be the Constitutional Court. Somehow I would like to conclude this debate. We have taken into account the current situation and warnings we have received in the last year since this law has been in force. It is necessary to go unburdened in the future and to take into account the situation that this law has, that is, the additional bureaucratic obstacles, the extension of research procedures and could still be listed. Allow me to conclude that Mr Matić's discussions are always very much to be heard. It is evident that he is active in the field of culture, he himself knows how to spice up the debate and perhaps sometimes to exaggerate. However, I might wish, in the future, that, as Chairman of the Committee on Culture, he would learn at least when Statehood Day is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanya Zink. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready. Here you go, Mrs. Cink.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u114	The Honourable Vice President, the Minister and the others present! I'm going to talk to my colleague, Chuša, who points out to the coalition that we're not interested in talking about the subject you're proposing. I absolutely disagree with this, but I think that this problem with the 2014 novel has been adequately addressed. At this point, I really don't see the point in reopening the old darkness. When I received this proposal on the table, I asked myself whether it was time for us to focus on the more important problems in the country. We have almost 110 thousand unemployed, poor, refugee crises at our door, and we could also list what we all know very well what I mean. But most of all, unfortunately, citizens and citizens; those who fight for daily survival. I think there's more to the kind of stuff that archives seem so important to them in these days. I repeat, this has also proved to be the case at the June 2014 referendum. The biggest damage, however, seems to me that at that time Slovenia had to spend more than 2.8 million euros in budget money to carry out the referendum. If the archive law ever needed to be amended, it was certainly before the novel, that is, before 2014. The changes you are proposing in this sense would mean a step back; therefore, the amendment you are proposing would restore inappropriate and problematic access to archival material. I'm no expert in this field, but I've learned. I'll probably do something again, but let me explain on some cases why. Since the old law has very practically taken into account the definition of personal data in the Personal Data Protection Act, which regulates, if we can call it, living matter, it has in many cases proved that the material should be completely closed if we are to protect, for example, data on racial or national origins that are very common in archival materials. Furthermore, it was not appropriate when data were considered to have been obtained by violating human rights. It has not been pointed out which persons are even considered to be holders of public functions. At this point, I will quote the Ombudsman's opinion, which says: "When it comes to regulating access to personal data, the legislator must carefully weigh the constitutional reasons for allowing access to such data. Even more stringent it is necessary to regulate legally the possibilities of access to sensitive personal data defined as such by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and our Personal Data Protection Act." In this respect, the proposed amendment would, in the view of the Ombudsman, constitute a step backwards in ensuring fundamental human rights when it has not been sufficiently specified which and whose data require a special regime or protection in accessing archive material. In certain cases, the old law even allowed for free access to court materials in civil proceedings which were not related to political persecution, for example. For example, in divorce proceedings, custody procedures, etc. The new law of 2014 removes the problems mentioned above. It shall clearly indicate which data are sensitive in the material and shall not be disclosed before the conditions are met. It protects specific data and does not completely closes the material and lays down exceptions when such material is allowed to be fully accessed. To conclude, I would only stress that neither the Government nor the Information Commissioner nor the Ombudsman are of the opinion that the proposed amendment would be meaningful and necessary, so we will not support the proposal in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chus has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thanks again. I didn't intend to discuss it, but I was also mentioned by name. I would like to set a benchmark or advice for my colleagues in the coalition, take a look at how many times someone is discussing, propose a solution and ask a written or oral question. Actually, that's not what it is. There is always a similar situation, three, four debaters, and others should come to the vote. That's how this coalition works. It's no different today. Maybe someone's more present because then you have the top of the coalition. Yes, but we will not find the best solutions that are yet necessary for the future of our country. I would also like to say it again, and I would like you to propose a solution or a complement to our legislative proposals. There aren't any. The government comes to the National Assembly with an opinion on two; now I have read three or seven pages. The last paragraph – The government does not therefore support this, and then every coalition member puts two paragraphs out and says, "that is why I do not support it." Let us start thinking a little differently in this country, and let us rather think about what we will do to make it better. I see politics just by looking together for the best possible solutions. I know that maybe sometimes something isn't perfect, but as much as it is in our power as the opposition, let's do our best and make a concrete marriage proposal. Sometimes we need only one or two articles next to us and we would have an excellent law that would work perfectly in practice. This can also be said in the field of traineeships when you even supported it in the first reading. Then I don't know what happened, but if we're just going to go, if, yes, that's from SDS, we're going to go against, I don't know if we're going anywhere in this country. [[…]] That is why I call once again: a little more pro-activity and desire for cooperation, and we will be able to get somewhere else. But the easiest thing to do is to be a priori against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Procedurally, Dr. Mitja Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. If this was a replica, please let the meeting be conducted in such a way that you warn the debater to sign up for the debate and not to abuse the replica institute for jumping in order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. He was named, and he reacted. He wasn't too long, so he gave his opinion. Here you go again.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u120	Being named isn't enough for a replica. The replica can only refer to its debate, which has either been misunderstood or misinterpreted. In this case, it was a serious abuse which is inherent to SDS Members. I ask you kindly to prevent such conduct from taking place in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We have strange manners. Why do we have strange manners? Because members of the coalition give some reminders to their own people. Okay, but it's funny. We're on the subject we're talking about, archival material, access to it, so one thing has to be said. I didn't listen to all of your debates. I listened to some of them, even now. SMC representatives, I'm telling you. And if I came from the moon, you'd tell me that these are all new Members now, I'd say, yes, fine, but they have old professional associates. You read reminders read by people from Positive Slovenia. You keep saying that like parrots. This is also logical because there are no other arguments. When we passed this law or when the bill came along, I also have an old reminder, but I am still Gorenak, and I am still in the SDS, and I am still a Member, so I can repeat old things. I don't have to repeat any of my predecessors' things. At that time, when this law, which is now in force, was on the way to adoption, the proponents filled us with this information, and they said, "Look, the existing law has 11 limitations, and we only have 6 more. Aren't we okay? We're only giving six more limits. So we're opening up archive material." That was the argument. But when I went to watch these things, that's true. But they didn't hold him open, but they locked him up. That's right. By the way, what's this all about? At that time, the applicable law, which was then amended, counted racial origin, national origin, political belief, religious belief, philosophical belief, political party membership, union membership, health status, sex life, registration in criminal records, deletion from criminal records. But there are only six restrictions after the new one. These are: health, sex life. victims of crimes against sexual inviolability, marriage, family and children, perpetrators of crimes and offences, except in opposition to the single party regime, religious belief and ethnicity. So there's only six of them. So you opened it. Well, now I've applied it to Edward Cardell, so let's say we go look at him. So the information on him is known, according to a new approach. And that's true today. The following information is available on this subject without restriction today. He was white, that's now publicly available information about Edward Cardell. He was a Slovenian. This is publicly available information. He was a communist by belief. This is also publicly available information. That he was a bass player is also an available information. That he was a member of the CKS and the ZKS is also an accessible information. If he's not a union member, he's also available. If he has not been dealt with for crimes and offences, there is also available information. And how many of them he's given to kill, and that's not available. That's it. And now read me these old notes from Positive Slovenia. Look, here's the reality. The limitations, the conditions we had before, and what we want with this law. Until the amendment of the law, we had restrictions on officials before 17. 5. 1990, for Udba employees and their spires. Leadership of CK ZKS, i.e. for CK ZKS officials, SZDL officials, trade unions, youth, fighters, police, justice, prosecutions, prisons and so on. All the material that was made before 17. 5. 1990, this category of people was accessible without any restrictions. There was no limit, but there were protections. [[..]] Victims were protected in terms of data obtained through human rights violations or personal data. The victims were protected while for these officials, I repeat, were fully open. The law, however, which was adopted, then went to a referendum, by the way, the referendum was successful, not to say that it failed, but did not reach a quota which was a constitutionally defined matter. Or, according to your household, not enough people have come to the vote. And they weren't rejected enough by this law. What did he bring? He compared Edward Cardell to the victim of the Udba. And he protects them the same way. Data on the health situation, i.e. Kardel and his victims, such as, or any other, sexual life of victims of crimes against sexual inviolability, marriage, family and so on, are protected by perpetrators of crimes, offences, except against the unilateral regime, that we are accurate, religious and ethical affiliations. So they're protected perpetrators of crimes and crimes. Now let's get something else out of this. If the rest of our archive material is really accessible to everyone and if it is really as open to everyone as some say, then tell me, answer me one question, especially, Mr Matić, who is an expert on these matters, at least among Members, because you worked there, you were a director, then tell me why we did not in Slovenia the same sentence of post-war beatings of those people who were killed after the war. Why did this not happen if you claim that the archives are fully open? But you've opened them even more. Slovenia is probably the only country I think is the only country that failed to bring a single user to court in 25 years after World War II. But if the police did something, he came to the investigating judge, and then he was tied up in the cross, and he went home and he was forgiven. Mr. Fishwich. Tell me, how is it possible, if you have absolutely open archives on one side, anyone can come, anyone can get everything – why is that? Where'd that come from? When the Austrian state authorities, I am talking about prosecutors who are working the Montenegrin case, they want to come to Ljubljana and what to hear, it is a procedure that takes no time. And our parents don't even want to cooperate, and at every turn, they're blocked. What's the problem? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem, how can I say that people understand me, because those who know things better, you know, but people need to be told simply. Once you are sick, in principle, or cured, or terminally ill. The comparison may not be the best, but we still have the disease of that time. We still have diseases from that time, which in the Slovenian political space one more, one less, one more accidentally, I cannot say otherwise for SMC, but you simply carry on into the future. Instead of opening the archives a long time ago, the police, the prosecution, put the judiciary to work, as they are called to do their job. All these systems, from police to judicial, prosecutorial and political, if you want, are political in different images, now it's hard to say here, the most clear image is on this side and there's a left of me. Because everything else is changing. From the big one, because we know how the people's corps comes up with some new corpus, but the disease goes on with it. And that's the problem. I repeat the question. If you think it's all open, why did it happen that we haven't found one in twenty-five years? But there are tens of thousands of dead. And we haven't found one yet. The Germans – the situation is perfectly clear there. And you're 50 years old, and you get caught in front of a judge, and you get convicted. Then what? They don't ask for years. And we, I don't know how to say it, are incredibly hard to move these things forward into new generations. And now you're picking up here some people who actually were kids back in those days before 1990. It's okay, it's okay, because you're younger, but look, you're talking when you have nothing to do with that time, you have nothing to do with history, you're nothing to blame, and you should be burdened with that story. And that is true of most of our people. After all, look, a generation born after 1990 will be twenty-five years old. But no! Politically, this young generation is protecting some of the crimes of 1946. I don't know who the hell it is! I don't understand. I'll never understand. That is why we have put this bill into the process of simply giving a new generation of people, especially the SMC, a chance to speak about it. And I am disappointed that you are reading the old reminders of those gentlemen before you. You know, Google, you put on a few key words or a long sentence or you put a thing in college there in a program, any one of them, and you see that you read an old reminder that someone else read there. I can't do that. I would expect you to take this opportunity to get rid of the burden of the past. In particular, it shall apply to junior Members of the SMC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u123	Dr. Matic, the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u124	Since Dr. Gorenak personally mentioned me, but I see that he did not understand my debate or my colleagues' debate, I think all the conditions for the replica are met. I hope my colleague Mitja Horvat agrees. For the first time, as regards archiving, because you referred to me as an archival expert, the thing is that archival material is already fully available, with sensitive personal data, for all kinds of official procedures. Especially judicial proceedings. And if there's a problem, if you see him here, Mr. Gorenak, then you have no idea. Because it's open, it's fully accessible, and anyone can see it. But the problem is in the judiciary. But it's not like twenty-five years in power is some left-wing option. What have you been doing since you had Prosecutor Drobnič, he wasn't some special communist, or is there ever an indictment, if we're talking about it, and I see that we're spreading the debate very far and we're really sailing somewhere into some subjects that aren't the subject of what we're supposed to be talking about today? [[Incomprehensible]] As far as this is concerned, once again, the archival material is fully available, I think that Article 67, at least Article 67, was article 67 of the law, for the purposes of all official procedures, including the tasks to be investigated by the judicial authorities. For all researchers, the archival commission is freely available – I said before when you were not in the hall, what composition it is, because you probably know it very well, Mr Gorenak. These are the people who are close to you. Opens and closes the material [[advertising in the hall]] Yeah, let's talk to them, because you put them on the archival committee in 2012! The Yanshe government has set it up! Who built it? It opens and closes materials with sensitive personal data, scissors and canvas in its hands. No one's replaced her, they haven't replaced one member, they're all there! Only the laws are fulfilled, responsible and by their conscience. And I think they're doing it, and I'm not criticizing them. You're in trouble. But it's kind of cannibalism in your own kind, it's not a problem of archival law, the archival profession. I think that's more your problem, but you have to clean it up yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Mr Sasa Tabakovic should be prepared. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you. I'll proceed just where Mr. Gorenak has stopped. Look at the principle of the previous marriage. This was a principle that was set in the same way as in all comparable countries former communist regimes that respected the principles of the modern European Union. These principles are simple to protect victims at all times, but those who have committed or have made a personal objective or subjective use of human rights violations for their authority do not have such protection. A simple principle, which is also reflected in the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism and all other acts, especially Council of Europe Resolutions, which is also perfectly logical. Who did this? The members of the secret political police, according to the local saying of the Udba. This is the organization for which two cases have already occurred in Slovenia, when someone was told by you, in court proved that that man was an active member of the Udba, and yet he was convicted, because in Slovenia we have a very interesting legal order, by which you must not tell anyone what he was in the previous regime, because that – think! — may harm his sensitive feelings, which he has so developed to protect human rights. A very interesting country, however, is a very interesting court logic, I must say; by the way, it has nothing to do with Europe, but it has something else to do with it. That's for sure. What protects the law, however, is the victims, because the victims are those who, after all international acts, have to be recognised, they have to be honored and must do everything they can to rehabilitate them. But the victims are not members of the CK, the victims are not those who were in office, they are those who took advantage of the systematic violation of human rights by the secret political police of all communist, fascist and other socialist countries. It's really about two faces of one and the same evil that there will be no misunderstanding. And that's why this marriage was okay. The change has now made a mistake. The change has now put things on our heads — those who have taken refuge are now protected. There's no reason for that. Why would we protect someone who took refuge and based his authority on it? Unless, of course, he's protecting himself with this one today! Then that's the problem. Here we witness an interesting situation, on how many key functions there are in us people who were former members of the Udba, and then sometimes very strangely scratches when they are always obvious, "yes, that's back to back, nothing to look at..." You know, history teaches, if you want, even math. If you want to know which way you're going, you need two points, the one you came from, and the one you're on, and then you know where you're going. But if you forget that from behind, you forget the past, and what happens to you is what Havel said, "A nation that can't clear up and respect its past won't experience its future." That's the problem. This marriage eventually ended with this intense blackness. This ink allows for a lot of things. Nobody can even check in at the end. I suppose those who work do their job right, but somewhere else is the problem. Any bigger matter takes a lot of time. People need time to learn all this to prepare materials. That's why things are passing, they're losing time, and, you know, time is exactly the kind of thing that no one can bring back to you. That is why this principle is wrong, at least in the form it is now carried out. I'm sure you do. And that should be changed, because there's a lot of things hidden in the archives that can then move away under this law, he says that it needs to be reviewed if he doesn't want to give it to someone. Then he waits and waits and waits, and he never comes on the day, because no one ever waits again. But once he gets here, forget what it was. But there's a lot of interesting stuff in the archives. Many times, when it is said, 'do not look back, this is the past', it is forgotten that this is not only in 1945, 1946, 1947, but in the archive was also given material, you will not believe, from 2008 or 2006, there, which was located at the Ministry of Justice in some forgotten cabinets, they were even a little walled down in the basement. And that was exactly the archive of political prisoners. There were not only numbers from 1946 or any older ones, but also very young numbers, 1989, 1988 and so on, and also from the years that had Fridays, sixes inside. It was stated that someone had been liquidated and then it was also indicated why. And you won't believe it: he knew too many foreign languages. That was the reason why someone was murdered. Or: he could read in foreign languages and so on, he knew too much. Interesting, isn't it? It deviates considerably from that image that was created in half-time history through official history all this time. And that's undeniable, because this archive is exactly the archive of those who actually made that decision. This archive is there, too. I think we should take a very good look at what one of the Witnesses recently did to me, which was next to when they found this archive directly, and very systematically. It would be very clever for the history of this nation and also for those "clean accounts, good friends". But if anyone thinks that everything is about a half-lived history that has nothing to do with the present, ladies and gentlemen, let us open up the latest problem that is connected to the Udba. We've all moved a little bit, because they were in the middle of a holiday, the biggest foreign policy scandal in the history of Slovenia. When Mr Sekolec, as an arbitrator of the country of Slovenia, spoke well with the representative of the state of Slovenia on the telephone, on an open line, speaking the greatest secrets, which Croatia then kindly misused in order to bring down the entire arbitration agreement. First, you ask yourself, someone who has 20 years of experience with that kind of knowledge, whether it's possible to be so naive or something else, let's call it intentional naivety. I want the police to look into this. What is even more interesting is that the man who has done unimaginable damage to Slovenia's reputation and its fundamental strategic foreign policy objectives, this man, ladies and gentlemen, is recorded in the archives as a co-worker of the Udba. That explains a lot, but it doesn't excuse anything. But when we talk about these problems, don't say that this thing is half past history. That's the thing about the period we live in. And sometimes the only way to explain a completely illogical thing, a completely, almost unbelievable thing, a negligence of the highest rank that turns out to be in the right light when we find that someone was a member of the secret political police. What someone might say you're embezzling. Here we go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. The government has announced thirty minutes of time, we are discussing a topic that is important. Apparently, there is a lot of anxiety among some Members of the coalition parties, so they can't even speak calmly and are bitter and say with great difficulty what could be said quite normally. Many of the facts of my colleagues, including some coalition members, were expressed and told, and the Minister, who took half an hour, was no longer able to read the government's position at this time, nothing else. Even so, she was unable to tell us at what stage the proceedings against the unknown perpetrator initiated by her predecessor, Dr. Grilc. There are also many things about the scope of the implementation of the archival law, and in particular what we are proposing as changes, we should comment, have a position, say what direction the Government is thinking, what might be even better than what we are proposing. And nothing happens. All the debate here is just one retroactivity, one retro thing: don't touch this topic, don't open the problem, don't solve anything and so on. Obviously, however, there are problems, otherwise they would not have proposed amending the law and would not have accompanied these public debates and discussions on solutions to the law. At the very least, the Minister could say whether this is the whole problem of this archival commission, which opens the file or not, whether this committee is working in accordance with the law or not. If this committee is working in accordance with the law, you have nothing to do with such a document. But if all of this is closed, what would be of interest to those who investigate it, investigate it, or take a personal interest in it? Mr President, I propose that you call on the Minister to respond to the debates of Members and matters on an ongoing basis or to direct the discussion in this work. Unfortunately, we have too many cases when the Minister comes and stays for the entire session. Or what's worse, he doesn't even come here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar herself will assess when she will call, otherwise she is on the programme as the last discusser. Thank you. Mr. Saša Tabaković, please, you have the floor. Get Mr. Franz Breznik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If we look at the history of the bill itself, we can claim, as it has been said several times, that last year's referendum fell because it was attended by an extremely small number of people, which means, as the opposition colleagues have already found, that the quorum was not fulfilled. Why the quorum was not fulfilled, we can also find an explanation in an explicit political, ideological debate, which at the time accompanied the consideration of this law. And I fear, in view of today's debate, that the main motive of the applicant has in fact remained exactly the same fact that people are tired of begging around the past to want to discuss themselves, even in the National Assembly, which is dedicated to the future and to the prosperity of all of us. If that were not the case, and this is not a flossule, it is a fact, perhaps even a referendum on the quorum would not fall. It has been pointed out several times in the National Assembly that the profession should be that and not that of the public, which, with some objective, scientific approach, devalues the past, of course in the spirit of respect for the ethical postulates of human rights. This means that it will evaluate the past in a way that this evaluation will not be aimed at partial interests, which could also be politically abused, and I will return to that later in my debate. The situation that the applicant is trying to show is not so catastrophic. More. In my opinion, in its assessment, the proposaler is very general and even misleading. That this is indeed the case, for an argument I am taking professionally, i.e. the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ombudsman's response that Mr Gorenak of the opposition would not have shown me that I am repeating anything like a parrot. Since some members of the opposition are losing the red thread within the bill, it would be good to summarize some things. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia, in its reply to the proposal, stated that in the use of archival material alone, there were no major complications or official complaints, any problems which had been brought to it, since in practice all researchers, I stress, have access to the archive in an unlimited and comprehensive manner. In particular, those documents containing the most sensitive personal data always go through the sieve of the archival commission, which then, on the basis of different circumstances, decides on the manner in which these data will be made available to the applicant for inspection. The fact is that the members of the Commission are certainly recognised experts, probably also the SDS Group cannot show them some poor expertise or lack of competence. And this Commission issued 63 decisions from 2013 until now, which is probably some additional proof that the research work that is based on the Republic of Slovenia Archives is going on as smoothly as possible. Now, if we look at the Ombudsman's response, this says that the bill would be ineffective in ensuring fundamental human rights, protection of privacy, personal rights and the protection of personal data, all in the light of Articles 35 and 38 of the Constitution. It adds that if the proposal had been implemented, it would have largely constituted an arrangement that would allow for the untransparent review of archives and thus the imprudent collection of personal data. That's the problem. This means that the new law would allow everyone, not just experts, not just research journalists, but the whole public, to access this information. But there could be a problem here. This field, of course, can also become a polygon for certain political abuses. A legislative proposal that transforms the protection of personal data into a market accessible to the public cannot, in principle, be supported. However, if the SDS Group would in fact not want to open ideological debates, then, according to the response of the profession, i.e. the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, and to the response of the Ombudsman, it would also withdraw this proposal. In fact, if the proposal were to be good, it would be supported by both the profession and the coalition. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The first question, therefore, which in this last year were the topics that pave the way for the future of the Slovenian country, the way between the most developed, the way to the greatest prosperity of our citizens and citizens. For the first time, tell me, dear colleagues from the coalition! Were these possible themes, I don't know, the fourth industrial revolution that the most developed European countries are talking about today, the high technology, the implementation of high technologies, the higher value added, the rise of the Slovenian industry from 15% to 25% in GDP, as reached today by the Czech Republic? What were those themes of yours? Is your budget, which we will be adopting in a while, included in the future? The study will remind me of some lectures, where then I also started to study alongside the technique that I have completed, right, history and everything else, so that, above all, in the macroeconomic field, we can seriously plan the future and look at everything else. When you see that a society does not act as if it has a crisis of values, as does an individual who has come before a doctor, where there is a long-standing disease, then you look at the intestines of this society, what has happened, what is happening today, that this society does not work, that we do not have effects in the economic field as well. In this process, when you look at the poultry of this company, you find that this company cannot work because former institutions or those who have been loyal to the previous totalitarian regime are still operating in areas such as the media, the education system, the judicial system, in the field of the economy, especially state-owned companies. And this is the same problem that Croatia has, the same problem that colleagues in Serbia are following, the same problem that was being pursued in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and so on. The best case is when you can compare one country that fell apart in two parts, those were West and East Germany. Most of the time, we talked about people who were former members of Stasi, as well as former judges, how they were mostly retired, while others went through various processes of education and control so that they could become judges again in a Western world. Now we come to the fundamental question: why are we not acting as a society? We do not act as a society and also a crisis of values is shown when you see that the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, a former member of the State Security Service Boštjan Šefic, stepped into Udba in 1975 and as a young assistant at the Faculty of Economics in Maribor, according to his then professor, accompanied academic circles and introduced them to the State Security Service. When you look at a whole range of lawyers, judges in district and district courts, who are still in the judicial system today, former or active, or also reserve, in the State Security Service. Let's move on. I can look in my own place. Responsible editor of the local magazine, former member of the State Security Service, quasi historian who writes the history of our country, member of the State Security Service, former director of the neighbouring town, former member of the State Security Service, current head of the elementary school ten kilometers away, member of the reserve staff of the State Security Service. Is that normal? A colleague from Germany told me last week that former Stasi members now cannot perform any functions in Germany, respected colleagues, or the functions of sports officials in sports associations in Germany. Not even the functions of sports officials. Here's the gut, this is the X-ray. And when we open this subject, we open up the subject of the future. Since these citizens in 2015, where the country has all the land through the Agricultural Land Fund, I can almost say in state ownership, where every citizen with an electrical connection is still paying RTV, where the same citizen has a uniform fuel price throughout the country, where most companies with a total monopoly are still in state ownership, then we know that something is wrong. It's a history of this society. We're repeating the same mistakes over and over again. When we go to look at the disease situation of this society to turn this society around, we turn this society towards the goal that we set ourselves in 1991, that, in addition to respecting human rights, we follow the path of countries that have high added value, where prosperity is at a decent level, then we come to the label that it is a party dealing with the past and not the future. But this future – I haven't seen it, I expect it in one year. And one more thing, fellows! I do not condemn most of the colleagues who are new, but respected colleagues, if you are claiming to be some European liberals, I think that this is a piece of cake for some that this would not be a matter of any debate at all. If we open these archives, we open them all the way. You don't have to be afraid of all these archives. Let them open. I don't know why they're resisting the archives to open up if it was so okay in this system, if there were no mistakes, if we're deceiving, I don't know why you're afraid the archives are open. But, dear colleagues, I am sure that until we all show it, it is a fundamental attitude that we want the truth to come on the day to be clear, to look at the intestines of this society, why it cannot work, then it is a topic that also concerns the express future – that we do not repeat the same mistakes in the various policies of this society, such as the question of privatisation. I'm looking at former members of the State Security Service, who owned one piece of property in my place, then they owned it. When you ask him today, when it came to his personal interests, he owned it, of course, with social money. When it comes to selling Telekom, of course, he says that Telekom must remain state-owned. And then here people can learn the duality of this society. Not to mention the ecclesiastical cases today in Germany, Austria, where foreign authorities are investigating the offences of the State Security Service. And why is that necessary? The State Security Service from Yugoslavia has some specifics. The first feature is that one of the few societies that has massacred its citizens in a mass way outside this country is formerly the common Yugoslavia. About 100 Croatian citizens in Germany, Canada, Sweden, Italy, even Argentina and so on. As a statistic, let me say only one citizen who was officially murdered by the Bulgarian Secret Service. Of course, we don't know about the KGB, they certainly killed them, but the statistics that are now known, that is, the State Security Service of former totalitarian creation was the most cruel to its citizens, is the only one who murdered its citizens outside of its own country. When they totally controlled this country, when, we can say, 1 out of every 4 citizens, the fifth citizens were hanging around their colleagues in various areas, when they controlled the complete system, they killed, exterminated their members also outside that country. And this is the specification of the Yugoslavia State Security Service, the largest. Maybe I'm doing the KGB's wrong because we may not have all the data because it's even stronger there, not least we have Putin, the former head of the KGB, who is now even president of the country, to see how this octopus works in the former countries of the Soviet Union, and how it works with us. The State Security Service network is as alive today as it used to be. Just like old times, respectable fellows! The same information is reported by colleagues from Croatia, they may be some bark ahead, Perkovic, Mustat are in the middle of the process, our former members are in the process, which is essentially ending according to my information. And that'll be another fiasco when it comes to it. How should judges working in the State Security Service today work to ensure that these crimes are discovered? No way! They're part of it, they're part of the problem, not part of the solution. The story of this company is also a story that institutions do not work. It is also a matter of our honour as Members, my fellow Members. We have eight hundred laws, and we have sixteen thousand sub-laws, we defile every law just because the institutions of this country don't work, because we didn't work for the people in 1991, when the former president of the then-congregation frenzied after this house, so that only through his body can we get the lustration, because we didn't do it, we're dealing with this network today, with this last generation of the Judgment that retired there around 1940. And these are people who are now between fifty and fifty years old. And here's the problem. I must admit that this silence is worse than the silence of the former Mobs in Italy. Fear of that. A few of these wankers also opened up to me, came in and wrote a letter, and I got in touch with them. Amazing fear, incredible information, from bank robbery to 1991, about parallel economy, which I think the whole series was also broadcast on Radiotelevision Slovenia, about responsible media editors, including on Radiotelevision Slovenia, now even on commercial televisions and so on. It is a kind of intertwine of all this and it is some kind of virtual democracy in the Republic of Slovenia as well as a virtual market economy. We are prisoners of former members, respected colleagues and colleagues! And I don't understand people being able to protect exactly these members and the work of a former state that doesn't have any connection with this country that we set up in 1991. I don't understand that. Especially people who at least indicate that they have a liberal European attitude. Because it is the liberals or the members of the ALDE in the European Parliament who are most committed to opening archives to clarify these matters. And I don't understand you here somehow. I would ask you once again to support what we have prepared for you to support this once again, what we have prepared to show this attitude and to move on. We're opening up those topics that concern the future. But in the future, without looking at where mistakes have been made in the past, we can't, because we're repeating the same mistakes and turning around in a vicious circle, a respected colleague and colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word to prepare Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We are listening to the debate quite nicely, and as I have already reacted in the meantime, we want to stick to the themes of today's agenda, namely the issues of the law on documentary and archival protection and archives. However, in the debate, we have all the other issues, issues of accounting with us, which we have come to fresh in the National Assembly, in order to change the practice. We're constantly getting readings because we don't want to change history. We just can't do that. So I don't know where you get the idea of us not wanting to change history. History is as it is, and our fundamental aspirations and efforts go in the direction of clarifying this, to find out what the truth was and to make a creative contribution to all in this society, by virtue of what we learn from history, to continue to solve together the problems we face. We haven't caused them, we've come to politics, we've come to elections, and people have given us support to change that. But what do we experience? A constant attempt to drag us into a 25-year-old bicycle fight about who's right. Why and how do we cooperate? Of course, very often as silent observers, as you tell us, simply because we have nothing to do with it. None of this has been done; none of what has been decided in the past has been done; we have simply faced challenges to all the problems and problems you have accumulated over the past 25 years, and we are trying to solve them in one exemplary way, in an open and constructive process of cooperation. But no. You reject each hand offered, you always tell us that we have something with a past with which some of us can't have anything at all, and others, of course, have nothing to do with it. We don't understand why you don't prefer to talk about the reasons that led you to the bill you're proposing. When I read the explanation myself, unfortunately I see no argument, I see no reason why you are proposing change. We have something small in the assessment of the situation and in the main solutions, but unfortunately you don't tell us what the basic purpose of the law is. I don't know and I don't understand why you're telling us that we're equalizing victims and perpetrators, but if we've made it clear that what happened in the past and what wasn't in line with our order is to be condemned, and there is no way that we can compare the various regimes that have been and caused evil in our space in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you so much again for saying that. Previously, in one of my discussions as a proponent, I spoke about the right to inform the public of the right to privacy. That's when I mentioned the German case. Here I just want to make it clear that it wasn't about the German President at the time, but it was about the Prime Minister, Chancellor Kohl. It happened that in 2003 the court decided that the right to information on the right to privacy was the right to be informed. Chancellor Kohl turned to the court at the time. He wanted to prevent certain disclosures concerning the information collected about him by the then secret German police, Stasi, but failed because the court was clearly aware that it was the right to inform the public of the right to privacy. I think we should do exactly the same. It's just like, I'll say, a sample or a trained example of how we work in the field of transparency and transparency, and how they work, say, in Germany. The other thing that really bothered me personally again is that we keep talking about ideological topics, about how we open them. Once again, it is not an ideological issue, but it is only to allow the archives to be opened in full, as Germany allows and as the Czech Republic allows. Let me also explain that, through the entire debate that I have just heard from the coalition Members, it was clear that all of you are working together just to in some way, it doesn't even matter how now, but to close the archives or archive materials. While, on the other hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are the ones who are constantly fighting to keep the archives and to keep them open. And if Mr Tabakovic has previously made some kind of history in this area, let me tell myself some information or how things have started to happen at all, and why I say that some don't want the archives to be fully opened. First, in 2006, the government of Janez Janša was the one who opened the archive material in its entirety. That's when she only protected the victim's data. And that's the point. It's a substance you're very fond of. She protected the victim's records. However, it did not protect the data of the perpetrators of the crimes. With the new law, it was precisely that victims and perpetrators of crimes were equalized. Instead of protecting the integrity of the victims, it protects the integrity of the perpetrators of crimes. Of course, not to be mistaken, everyone also has human dignity and integrity with the Constitution as well. However, when we talk about the right to public information, it is clear who must be protected. It's perfectly clear. I don't understand why, in the coalition, Dr. Horvath won't tell you that we're talking about them because you have nothing to do with it. All the previous coalitions have done the same thing. And today you're doing the same thing. You're not against it. You will not support what we have proposed. And that's the problem. I am not saying that you are responsible for this and I have never said that in the debate. However, in a way, you are Members of the SMC who inspired us, or me, because I am a proponent, and I have never said that. But something holds: to do the same. And here I have to say, for comparison, New Slovenia supported the law, but today it says that some of the anomalies that we have been warning about are really visible, so the law will now support further consideration. That's an important indicator. But if you were to do something different or at least argue and say, "Yes, it is true, in some parts you are right, and it might be really good to finally go over this way of thinking and open the archives," then I would understand your argument. I can't do that. In 2011, something crucial happened in the area of archival material. The current Director of the Sove Mr Selan unlawfully denied access to archival material to the publicist and researcher Igor Omerzi. What did he do? He automatically put on the material that Omerza requested and was legally owned, and he should have received it, marked "secret". Now I'm asking you, it's for you to open or close the archives. Is this for you transparency or blurring matters? I argue that it was not a professional decision at the time, as they would like to show, I do not say, certainly experts in this area, even in your parliamentary group, but it was not a professional decision – and that the current director of the archive knows – but it was a purely first-class political decision. Why? Because Mr Omerza requested microfilms relating to the period 1979 and 1980. He's had problems with the others, too, but he's had problems for the last two years. And you know why? Because this period referred to the period when no one other than Dr Danilo Türk, the former President of the State, led the Commission on Evictional Issues. And more importantly, why did Mr Selan have to go to the code of documents that Mr Selan had voluntarily given them a code of secrecy? Because there was a bombing in Veliovac during that period. At the time, it was none other than the former President of the State, Dr Danilo Türk, who, by the way, probably also because they knew each other, were friends, knew how things worked, then awarded the prize to the former or the last Head of the State Security Service, Mr Tomaž Ertl. That's when we challenged it, and we reasoned that it was a problem. And I don't allow you to keep saying that we're only dealing with these issues by digging up some individuals' pasts. That's not true, that's not true! It is simply that people have the right to be informed about these matters. We've already destroyed, I mean, the Udbov archive, more than 90% of the Udbov archive. And today you're closing it down by anonymizing it that way. So let's say it looks anonymization by law, but the more open archives are that, these are more open archives, Mr Matić. I don't think it's more open archive. Because you know what the problem is, even if we look at it, I don't want to say anything over anyone in the archive, but if the document is blacked out, where is someone who controls what's actually black? How do I know it's only about some information we can't black out by law? And in this case, given that we also have an original document, it was a criminal complaint. Is this sensitive personal information? Tell me. This does not belong to sensitive personal data. So it can be manipulated and can be deceived. And it's not a political law, but it's a law that requires all of us or gives us the opportunity to finally establish some normal democracy that we can also establish in a way that allows us to have full access to archive material. What happened then? Since this was not yet enough to prevent Mr Omerzi, even though the law required him to obtain these documents. But because it was a problem for the then president of the country, because it was also a problem for his associates at the time, they then pressed the then government of Borut Pahor and the then government closed the archives. Then the government closed the archives. At that time, we decided to hold a referendum in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the basis that it was constantly working towards closing the archives rather than opening them. And you know what the Constitutional Court said? It gave us the right one! It has given us the right to be informed, once again, of the right to privacy and that the final archive material must be fully opened. At that time, 70.88% of citizens and citizens confirmed the possibility of the archives being fully opened at the referendum. And there was no need for the Ministry of Culture under the leadership of Uroša Grilca to go into any changes to the legislation. There was no need because people made it clear that they wanted open archives. In 2006, when Janša’s government arrived, it really happened. But again, there's been a constant problem on the left with this openness of archives. Therefore, the law drafted by Minister Uroš Grilc had to be amended and claimed to open the archives more and more. Absolutely not! And here we have a clear picture of this. It's just one of the cases. And once again, anonymization. Anonymization is a long-term procedure. In the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia we also have files on 700 pages and more. How can two archivists, if a researcher orders more files at a certain time, do the work they have to do by law. At the same time, we don't know what's really black. We don't know. I mean, these aren't really ideological questions or political performances. These are matters of law, of law. If that were true, then I wouldn't need any laws in all areas. Then why do we have them if it's all ideology? Why? Why do we need them? Why do we need such legislation? I don't understand. Look, what I personally think is crucial here is that we all work together to have the archives fully opened. I don't know why that's such a problem. One way or another, most of the archive material was destroyed. And this destruction took place in three stages, I think first in 1967, then in 1989 and then that mass in 1990, just before the democratic elections. Why did this destruction take place if there was nothing in this archive material? Why could they have prevented this from happening in Germany when it became known that the Stasi archives were being destroyed? More than 100,000 people came to the streets, in front of buildings where they protested and ordered the destruction of archival material to cease immediately. Only 5% destroyed it. And these 5% today are bonding together and doing reconstruction because they are aware of how important this is. Because they are aware that despite the difficult information that this is a serious matter, they realize that this is also important because such a history never happens again. And a constant repetition of the need to think about the future and not the past – I agree with you, the future is important and it is necessary to ensure adequate conditions for citizens and citizens. But who's the one who's in the government right now? And who's most responsible for this? It's a modern center party. We are constantly awaiting some measures and solutions. They're gone. When we propose them – for the future, not for the past, you are against them. If we want to talk about a better future, we need to know the past. But you can only know the past by having a comprehensive view of this history, not partial, not the kind of political gender that has to be so represented that some acts must be consistently excused for being protected by individuals. It doesn't go on like that anymore. But until we clear up the past, until we put things in place, it's hard to expect that the future will not be so bright. It's hard. Because things that are not cleared go back to the plan as soon as possible, both in the present and in the future, and they repeat themselves. And we probably don't want that. At least that's how I understood the previous debate. That's not what we want. But if we don't want to, and if we're honest with ourselves and with others, then we have to do something about it. And it would be good to follow these changes, because it is about opening up the archives to the victims, not least, so that they can rehabilitate themselves. This is a fundamental and fundamental human right. They don't have those options right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u137	Reploco has Mr. Sasha Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. As far as my explanation of history is concerned, it seems to me that I've been perfectly present and clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u139	There were 15 seconds left, I'm sorry. It's already down. I didn't see it. I'm sorry. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. After this intense communication between the National Assembly and the Government, it is time to at least conclude by saying something about this law and also about the situation in general. Here you have accused us of dealing only with history and not with the future. If you look at the statistics of the National Assembly for this mandate, we have filed 35 laws and other acts. The vast majority of these, if not all, except for the archival law and the law on the protection of cultural heritage, as well as these two, are directed towards the future. The abolition of shameful free traineeships in state institutions is one such law. The introduction of dual education is another such law. Housing issues and a whole bunch of other things, not to mention them, are laws aimed at correcting the present and improving the future. You've turned everything down. All but one, except for the law on the participation of the National Assembly with the Government in European affairs. We have tabled some extraordinary meetings and agenda items with recommendations on how to improve certain things in the functioning of the country. Do you remember which of these recommendations you supported? Not one. And now the representatives of the largest coalition party, which, by the way, including the other coalition, have not drafted any parliamentary law in this mandate, tell us from the SDS that we are not working and that we are not preparing appropriate laws, laws that regulate the situation further. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the exact same issue as those archives. A lie, hiding for the definition of a lie. You have all the data in the archive of the National Assembly, you can count everything, you can count everything, you can count all your discussions, you can count all your positive initiatives in the debates, and you can compare them with ours, and you will not get to 3 to 50 percent of what we did. Before you go into any criticism, any coalition party, first look at the past work, but regarding your mandate, which, by the way, is almost gone. No sign of anything you tried to do, but you just crawled for government positions, just like in the case of this law. The second thing that is more obvious in this debate today is that there has been virtually no argumented independent debate by members of the coalition parties, except for spinning through the jaws of a government proposal or government position. Nothing else. Paragraph and item three paragraphs of comment. This was all the debate you had at that time, which was available to discuss this law. I'm sorry. Look at the magnetograms, compare the government text attached to this law, and you will see the added value of what you said. That's it. Nothing, either. But given the time you've spent, I can tell you something less than nothing. The next problem, which is more than obvious, is that the Government has no position, except for what you sang for the government's meeting and invested in the National Assembly as a government, as a whole, none of the government's representatives at the State Assembly meeting, and the Minister, who is here and specifically covering this area, has been able to discuss in a matter of hours not a word. What do we benefit from a government like that that doesn't speak? He sits here like an anonymous person, waiting for time to pass, and then in the end, they read something else from that opening text and then they leave. That doesn't make any sense. There's always evidence here that we're dealing with history. Good. But history is important. It's important. If history is not important, then you can come right now with the law on the abolition of tax administration, financial administration, now it's together, police, NPU and so on. The NPU deals exclusively with history. Is he doing anything else? With the future? Only with the history and actions that have happened. That may be funny, but that's right. That's why we have this institution. The prosecution also deals exclusively with history. The court also deals exclusively with the history and actions that have occurred in the past. If these things, when we deal with history, hurt you so much, you can undo all these institutions. Everything. After what you're saying, we don't need any of these institutions. Not one. But obviously we need them to be to deal with the history of those who are being processed. Is that right? He probably does. Many of you have relied on the position of the Ombudsman in your deliberations. In this mandate, colleague Irgel had many meetings of the Commission on Petitions, Equal Opportunities, Human Rights, and count how many times the Ombudsman or any of her deputies have come to the debate on the protection of human rights. So what's the problem? What's the problem is that the guardian doesn't come to the debate about how someone was abducted abroad, brought to us, processed and executed, and no one knows where this victim is. Is this a theme for the Ombudsman or not? I'm asking. The entire coalition, Vlado. The chairman may speak. Is it dark or is it not dark? Is this, as you say, politicization or, as you say, political treatment? These are the facts, these are the facts. You can't hide behind this politics and politics with some accusations that we're talking about some things that have nothing to do with reality. You can't hide because we're talking about facts. And you're politicizing those who talk about us doing it. If there were such brilliant historical circumstances, and I did not know what period to independence, then those who had created the policy of this period would not have made sure that these archives had disappeared to destroy themselves. Perhaps Mr Matić, as a top historian, and someone else who has participated and disappeared in those archives and is still performing perhaps some important functions because it has done nothing wrong and has not been recorded anywhere. That's the question. You should be interested in where the archives are and what it says inside, especially as a professional, if you were the director of the archive, and Mr. Cvelfar as well. We should do everything we can to give the government money to reconstruct those archives that are not there. You are a government party, the largest, you have a cultural centre, including archives, and you should make sure that missing archives are reconstructed. What did you do? Nothing. What are you gonna do? That's less. Nothing. You don't care. As long as we do not somehow have this comprehensive view of all this happening, in the documentary material, until that little thing that Irgle spoke of disappeared after all these dates, does nothing, but this state of systemic ignorance will continue joyfully until then. And that's probably the only thing you're attracted to in this work. But as liberals who are open to ideas, like liberals, who are looking for facts and things to come forward and back, we should probably provide an important budgetary resource to approach the system-wide reconstruction of archives. And the other thing we should do is – because now I see that in government writing it says that there are only two people who decide to do this as experts – there will be a team for 10, 15 people if they want to open up that little thing. The Director of the Archives should come to the government and to all parliamentary groups with such a proposal, and we would support that. Apparently, there's a desire to get to the archives. It's not funny, but these are the situations that are and where something definitely needs to be changed. Here before us we have this famous 2003 Supreme Court judgment, which is an important part of what we are talking about today, defined, the documents refer to the former secret service. The Supreme Court has stated that this service has planned some activities, constructed the existence of criminal offences, demanded responsibility for them, even falsified them, that is to say, produced documents or planted burdensome evidence. The victims of such activities of this secret service were, as a rule, political opponents who had no opportunity to disclose the constructions of the Udba during the period of the regime and to obtain rehabilitation. This service did not operate on the basis of the laws adopted, which were published in the Official Journal, but acted on the basis of secret official documents, the recipients of which were only a few dozen persons in the entire former country. Now I ask, when you speak of human rights and thus defend them, human rights are covered by Chapter 2 of the Constitution from Articles 14 to 65. You can answer, Mr. Matić, Mr. Hainz, Weber, anyone. And I tell you, they didn't. Anyone can answer that. Have their rights been properly exercised or restricted? They were not sanctioned by public laws, but by secret laws. So they weren't, they weren't fulfilled. Was the inviolability of their lives ensured? She wasn't. Was it, Mr. Matić? She wasn't. Is there a ban on the torture of those persons who have been abducted, captured, transported and penalized in such or other ways? Article 19 of the Constitution speaks of the protection of personal freedom. Was that guaranteed? It wasn't. Was Article 20 respected — the purpose and duration of the detention? It wasn't. Was Article 21 respected — the protection of human personality and dignity? It wasn't. Article 22 – Protection of rights? It wasn't respected. Article 23 speaks of the right to judicial protection. Did these persons have a right to judicial protection? Can I expect an answer? They didn't. They had the right to a remedy, Article 25 of the Constitution. They didn't. Did they have the right to pay back the damage? They can enforce it because 90% of the archives have disappeared? We know where some have been buried who have been sanctioned on the basis of secret official lists with the activity of the former secret service. It was done, was it possible? Article 27 speaks of alleged innocence. Was that respected? It wasn't. Article 28 of the Constitution refers to the principle of legality in criminal law. This may have been done for persons who have been in such or otherwise after these activities of the Yugoslav Secret Service, as well as the Slovenian, understood, abducted, imprisoned, incriminated, tried and probably some also eliminated? Was that respected? It wasn't. You were talking about Article 35 of the Constitution and talking about the Ombudsman's statement. This ensures the protection of privacy and personal rights. Have these persons who have been abducted on the basis of such a technology of implementation against them due to political activities been assured? They were guaranteed that? The Ombudsman can confirm that these victims have been guaranteed the protection of privacy and personal rights. Were they given personal data protection if they were pursued and hacked into apartments, listened to and followed in their homes? None of these rights, respectable, have been guaranteed to those persons whose archives and files have disappeared. Not one of those rights. I'm sorry you're talking about not knowing what the guardian's activities are and so on. For what reason, now, under this law defended by the government, those who have done all these acts, contrary to the basic provisions of the Slovenian Constitution, have done so, with those who have been their victims. With what right, exactly? These persons, who have been sanctioned and whose records have disappeared, carried out these activities by certain persons, have also dealt with them. On the basis of personality, sexual orientation, and family dismemberment, many have been sanctioned, processed, imprisoned, and done something else. And now you're defending this principle of parity. That is to say, the victim and the perpetrator of the crime are equal in these rights. You do not guarantee the equality of the opposition and the coalition in this National Assembly. You're forcing us to share our bodies and taking our place if we don't make the choice you want. What about these people here? They picked up everything that was possible and everything that was not possible. Given what I'm talking about, and I'm talking about human rights in particular, you're the one who did it to talk about the cultural fight. Maybe so. Maybe you're even right. Because the difference between respect for the Constitution and human rights and the defence of the rights of constitutional and human rights violators is precisely in the culture of attitude towards the Slovenian Constitution, to the Slovenian state and to the fundamental values that have set this country. But that's the difference. We advocate that these people belong to human rights, you say they don't, and if they can, things are still closed. In what you're talking about and what you're polarizing, you're constantly instilling some ideological themes and cultural struggle. It's a permanent topic. Every time a topic relating to human rights violations in the past opens up, an ideological theme is a cultural struggle. Without defining why this is an ideological theme and a cultural struggle. 41 members of the Constitution are those who define this cultural struggle. Whether you respect them or don't respect them. We are on the side of those who respect this second chapter, 41 articles or 51, which speak of human rights, in judicial proceedings and so on. Not to be mistaken, even now in some court proceedings, exactly what was happening under this definition of the Supreme Court in relation to the former secret service. Human rights are also being violated in many cases in the same way, by constructs, forgeries, factories and similar matters, against other thinkers or political opponents. In fact, nothing has changed completely at this time. Now perhaps another question. As we speak of several thousand or more tens of thousands of people killed and expelled by the escaped Slovenians and thousands of others who ended up on Slovenian soil in Slovenia, why did we not have any process of official duty against anyone? This is where you act and talk about this area, this chapter, as if it were a mass collective suicide. It was as if they were jumping there themselves in Kočevska Rog, but they were throwing themselves at the tanker ditch at the Slovenian Bistrica and so on. Why are the individuals involved anonymous? You investigate and now the police investigate every victim they find. And first, find out whether or not the crime was suspected. They're making an I.D. They're looking for documents, asking hundreds of people to come to this. In this case, why are these procedures not carried out, on the basis of the same legislation, the same things? I think that's a serious problem. The fact that former President Türk decorated the last chief of this secret police means recognition of authority for actions that took place until independence. Commendation means that. You don't get medals if you're not praised. He didn't get the lemon, but he got the highest or one of the highest national decorations. Whenever this topic opens up about rewards for those who should not receive these decorations, talk about going to a cultural fight and opening up ideological themes. We don't open them. But it is right that this country, this policy, now you are the majority, does everything to reconstruct these things, to arrange these matters, to get to those who have caused these acts, and to start to identify responsibility once. Why would some be exempt from this? By adopting this law, you have done everything in your power to protect those involved in mass violations of human rights. We're not even talking about the abolition of those who did it, like there used to be a lot of customs, but you protected them. We haven't come to the hearing yet. The pure human question is why those who have caused such acts must be protected, for the first time, by unsanctioned doing so, by not seeking to destroy the archives, and by not doing anything about it, by speeding up access to these archives and by reenacting these archives. Minister, what's the problem with you not doing anything to reconstruct the archives? What is the problem with doing nothing to speed up the acquisition of documents for those who need these documents? And why don't you do anything to not get blank sheets, as in the last review report of TES when everything is business and state secret. Exactly in this archival law, which is in force, those who have been or have even been involved in any worse acts have been anonymized, erased. Acquisition of archival material is similar to the Court of Auditors’ report on the revision of TES when you only have the title and the signature, but in the meantime the practical whole text has been erased. What kind of archive is that? What kind of access to archives is this? What can you do with such an archive? Nothing but accusing those who want to make anything of this archive useful to themselves and this society. It's about time these things changed. And there's something else. As a country, we are extremely sensitive to all the problems, all the problems of others. There is no problem for the President of the National Assembly to read on the anniversary of Srebrenica such a, indeed a cultural speech, a major problem for August 23rd, in the condemnation of totalitarianism. However, in order to recall those who have tragically ended up in Slovenia who were killed during the post-war war, no president of the National Assembly has ever been able to do so. This is manipulation, this is politics, this is a problem of ethics, morality or anything of the first kind – we are not able to provide our own, and our relatives, our citizens, not a minute of silence, have been extremely many dead. More than Bosnia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u141	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak, Minister of Culture. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I thank you very much for today's debate. I listened to it carefully, and I can claim that the Ministry is working towards opening the archive, of course taking into account the profession and protecting sensitive personal data. We are a democratic society, which, of course, means that we must also respect the standards of personal data protection. I believe that there is no one in this room, and there are most of those outside this hall who condemn all wrongdoing and especially crimes. And I can claim competently that as far as the archives are concerned, no criminal is protected. The archives are always open for investigation procedures. As in Austria and in other democratic countries, so is we. That's what it means when it comes to crimes, when it comes to everything that's a crime, we can't say that this archive is closed. However, when it comes to sensitive personal data, certain data from a certain period when it comes to still living people are not accessible to everyone. And we can say that all other countries also protect personal data and have similar laws as we do. Germany, for example, has anonymization. I believe that Members would be able to answer all the questions that have been asked today, if not for the SMC Group, for example, time has run out and that is why they have not been able to answer the questions that have been asked here. But it's a political tactic to do that, so it's smart to end up saving yourself a little time for replicas. Not many of the things that have been said here are true. Even according to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, no one has been waiting for material for more than two months. It means this isn't about waiting, it's about accessing data. But it is true that there is a human resources problem in the archive, and it could be solved with more work, more money. As far as employment is concerned, we also know what is going on with Zujf and those things that we are very limited to, and that is why we cannot solve all these things. At the same time, we have found that a number of problems related to the terminology uncertainties that were resolved by the archival law last year could arise again with the adoption of the bill. Let me mention those who haven't been exposed today. Thus, in Article 1, on the amendment of Article 65, third paragraph, of the Act, the proposer refers to the non-availability of certain public archival material, but does not determine whether individual documents are not available or whether there is a lack of access to wider material. The proposed deadline for the decision-making of the archival commission is also, in our view and also in the view of the profession, as we have already heard today, difficult to implement in practice. Since the preparation of relevant data by the archive itself, which is urgently needed in the decision-making of the archival commission, in the vast majority of cases requires much more time. This means that these proposals are not good from this point of view. In addition, I would like to point out that the archival profession, as well as the vast majority of users or archive material researchers, do not share the view that the amended archival law causes major problems. What I said before is, of course, arguments in favour of this position. The new archival law, that is to say the one that has already been adopted, allows significantly wider access to archival material. For example, one that was not accessible to researchers under previous legislation. While it is true that users of such material, which was previously completely unavailable, do not get an overview the next day after the order, but have to wait a few days for the archivists to examine and determine if it contains personal data that are secured by law. The review and possible anonymisation of the archive material are demanding and, in large quantities, a delayed procedure may also be necessary. We had seen, say, a rather black document that was shown to the public before, but when we looked at these materials ourselves, we found that it was usually a very thick pile, I don't know what kind of material it was actually, you'd know better, but it was like a hundred pages or over two hundred pages, and in the meantime it really found some kind of a leaf. But it was rare, it wasn't that you could say that it often occurs. I was able to look at some of these materials myself. Thus, I can say that interested users, especially researchers or journalists, are also offered the possibility of accessing comprehensive archive material, including personal data, if they meet the conditions laid down in Article 66 of the Law and are granted unlimited access by the archival commission. That's what you call it. There's a possibility. For researchers who received the decision of the archival commission to access the complete archive material under the old law, the new law did not change anything. That's what they say. Things have really spread with the previous amendment of the law. In particular, I would like to stress the views of such an information officer or the Ombudsman that they are both aware of the consequences of this when it comes to regulation as it was before or under the provisions of this law. We have asked for opinions both institutions, which are very well-known and have received their opinion. The information officer thus expressed concerns about the need to abolish partial access to public archival material while at the same time supporting the maintenance of the existing two emergency access regimes. It's via the archival commission or the government. In his opinion, the Ombudsman stressed that the protection of privacy and personal rights and the protection of personal data are constitutionally guaranteed to human rights. In doing so, he mentioned Articles 35 and 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that the right to information referred to today by the applicants is not a separate constitutional right to obtain information of a nature, as referred to in Article 39(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is linked to the legitimate legal interest in the law. The protection of privacy and personal data is, of course, also provided by a number of inter-State human rights instruments, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms itself and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The Ombudsman points out, however, that when it comes to the regulation of access to personal data, the legislator must carefully weigh the constitutional reasons for the admissibility of such data. Even more stringent it is necessary to regulate legally the possibilities of access to sensitive personal data identified as such by the specific Directive of the European Union and our Personal Data Protection Act. The Ombudsman concludes his opinion by assessing that the amendment of the law constitutes a step backwards in ensuring those human rights and that such a proposal is largely a return to the regime that was in force before the amendment of the law when it has not been sufficiently specified which data and whose data require a special regime or protection in access to the archive material. For these reasons, we also assess, on the basis of the views of the information officer and the Ombudsman, that the proposed amendment is unnecessary. Respectable if the proposal were to be professionally acceptable to the Ombudsman, if it were acceptable from the point of view of democratic standards or the standards of democratic countries, then the Government would have no reason to reject this proposal. It's not about any other reason, it's about the very simple reasons I've been talking about. For criminals, the archive is fully open to investigative bodies and also to investigators under certain procedures. I think that's important. At the Ministry of Culture, we will continue to try to listen, listen carefully to your opinions and good opinions. To those who do not have the proper basis, however, we cannot listen. As we say, I thank you for today's debate, for the peaceful dialogue that took place during today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u143	The text is given by the proposer, Mrs Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much, again. Dear Madam Secretary! The original document is the only real document that a historian or researcher must receive, not get such a document after anonymisation. Given that I have only two minutes left as a proponent, let me say that I had previously done some kind of review of the situation in the field of archival material or how everything was done in this direction in order to close the archives, but I forgot to stress another important thing. In 2011, when the Borut Pahor's government closed the archives or made it very difficult to access the archive material, then we did go to the referendum and 77.88% of citizens said they wanted the archives fully open. Thus, we have succeeded and today I claim that any later legislation was entirely inappropriate because people have already made up their minds. But we always went back. There's something else that's happened. After the referendum, not before the referendum, but immediately after the fall referendum, Mr Matić, who is sitting in the Modern Centre Party today, then the director of the archive, introduced the anonymisation of the udbov material. Thus, after the referendum, after people decided 70.88% to want open archives, Mr Matić voluntarily took a step further and anonymised the audience's material. Then he came to the directorship of the archive, Mr Dežman, and then he got rid of it, and the archives were reopened. But now the key question is: Can a director choose such matters voluntarily simply because certain people need to be protected? Can he make his own decisions? And I'm talking about every case, no matter who the director is. Can he make that decision on his own? It's politicization. That's politicization. Even if there are many smiles and smiles, this does not change the fact that everything is going in the direction of closing the archive material to protect certain people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u145	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Mrs Eva Irgl, and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. The text is last received, first by a representative of the Government and then by a representative of the proposer. Before the application, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there will be no visible names on the screen for the renewal of the conference voting system, so we will be receiving from the duty station in a few moments a list of the advertised debaters, which the system will draw up in a random order, just as so far. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 4 minutes of time available. But they signed up, and it's just that something's not right. [[…]] Let's go manually again, please, if you raise your hands, it'll hold. Now we've done it. Mr Mitja Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. But I didn't hear it now in this manual, how much time do we have available? Four minutes to go. Thank you very much. I would like to respond to some words spoken after my performance, which were skillfully carried out by new attacks. I would also like to thank my colleague Tank, who gave us a nice introduction to the review of the second chapter of the Constitution of Slovenia, in which I fear that the SDS party is very often involved in a violation, although he said very strongly that they adhere to the Constitution and that they respect the Constitution of the guaranteed rights of everyone and everyone. The purpose of my reaction to everything that has been said below is, of course, the following. I respect the proponent who speaks about the right of the public to information, but I am afraid that this is again one of the types of manipulations that the SDS party is allowed to do. In view of the particular data it acquires, then use it in an interpretation manner, as it corresponds to that party for political purposes, but not for the purposes of determining the truth. But again and again in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia we testify that the data obtained in one way or another is used for the purpose of political struggle, not for the determination of the truth. This unproductive and inappropriate conduct must be personally condemned and, of course, I expect that we will continue to discuss, in an open debate, issues that are on the agenda, without manipulation, without interpretation, without torn-out parts. What I would like to respond to in particular, and this was the first part that I originally submitted, to the constant warning that the public has the right to information. That's what this is about. The public has the right to be informed of the truth. I absolutely agree. I'll sign it at any time. Unfortunately for you, however, I do not regularly receive the tendency to report objectively on the facts that have occurred in history. The simple story, however, which is linked to the agenda item, is that the protection of personal data is, however, raised above the level set by the law in the right to information, it is said, in particular in matters of the right to access information of a public nature. Personal data may be processed, stored and transmitted only for purposes specified by law. So that any other purpose and use of this data is not in accordance with the constitutional order, and in this part I call for you to stop this kind of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u147	Mr Andrej Šircelj has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm basically responding to the thesis that was put here. Thesis is that SMC has nothing to do with this. I also think that in Mr Horvath's first performance this thesis was explicitly told that it was already 20, 25 years ago considered that this has been dealt with several times here and that you are new here and that you have nothing to do with it. Somehow I'm summarizing your first position here. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The archives contain the heritage of Slovenia. And you are part of Slovenia, representatives of the people of Slovenia and you have very much with this, just as much as me and just as much as anyone else. Some are interested in getting some information that they didn't know about before and shouldn't know about because of the totalitarian system, and they're still protecting themselves. So that thesis doesn't hold. Don't even hold the thought that we don't have a future generation with this or you have nothing. No, no, no. You have a huge, huge future generation, too. Until this is cleared, until this history is cleared, there will be a burden. So much time and for all future generations, however you want, some history has to be cleared up. I think that this position, if you're defending him that you have nothing, you've come here new, you're here now as if, I don't know, where you came from. You are representatives of the people, representatives of the state, and this country has its own history, which is in the archives. Someone may be proud of her, someone may be ashamed of this history, but it is. And that's where she's written as she is. About manipulation. Look, there's data in the archives. And you say, the truth What is the truth? [[…]] I think, given that they are not only with us, but with us in particular, the truth was written by the winners for fifty, sixty years, that truth is very weak or that it is not true. And it is likely that another truth will have to be identified, and historians will have to identify it for many years. Because of this truth, which has been written for fifty or sixty years, we are speaking today because it is not true because it is a lie because it is a trick, because it is manipulation and so on. And we all learned that truth in schools after all. And it's the wrong truth, because some things weren't supposed to be talked about until 1990. The killings in Kočevska Rog were not to be discussed until 1990. And then it was only a partial truth at the time. And we want this and that there will be as few bureaucratic closures as possible, administrative closures, that this truth will be re-evaluated, re-established, that the burden from this and future generations will simply be lifted and that it will no longer be lifted. That's what this is about. And don't say it's none of our business. This is our business, the representatives of the people in this national council, including history. Because if this is not our business, the future will not be completely clear and the future will not be as it should be. And that's been on us for seventy years. That's what this is about. Don't say it's none of our business. That's your business. For this reason, I propose active cooperation in this law. If you don't like anything, change everything in the process, suggest. Don't say it's none of our business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u149	There's no replica in time-sharing. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u150	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Most of today we are talking about archival materials. I must admit that, above all, I agree with Members of Parliament that there are no Members on my right hand side, that this is probably the time that should be used for something else. But, I repeat, the time spent today on this bill should have been saved many years ago. If this subject were resolved, this past, which burdens the Republic of Slovenia, would not be discussed today. And certainly the situation in Slovenia would be essential, essentially different. And I don't mean the refugees coming to Slovenia. Today, in the National Assembly, we saw a lot of ridicule, a lot of mockery. I don't think the people who walk in front of the Devil's Cave in front of many graves in Slovenia are funny. And they wonder why their ancestors, especially those who did not know what life was, had to die in one way or another. I'm sure this isn't funny. When we talk about the law, which is an important article in our past, I repeat, it is an important part of the present, and I fear that we will act so irresponsiblely that it will also be an important article of our future, an important article for people who will live in the future in the Republic of Slovenia. Today's reflection of disagreement, ridicule also refers to all the other laws we talk about for better Slovenia and for better life in the Republic of Slovenia. I will, of course, support this proposal. But I appeal to all of you, honourable Members and Members, I sincerely wanted and was convinced when we were elected to the National Assembly, that you are people of different professions, judges, even among us, today we have listened to him a great deal, Director of the Archives, and when I introduced you as people who have done in the past each of you in our services, that we will improve things that do not count in the Republic of Slovenia, according to our own words. Today, however, we have proof that some of you have come to the National Assembly in order to keep things closed, which should be open – of course, I do not know who is forcing you to do so – closed. If this was the purpose of running for the National Assembly and sitting in these benches, I think this is a bad trip for the future. Today's topic, today's bill is certainly important for a better future in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u151	The word has magic. Ange Logar. Get Dr. Dragan Matić ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Horvath said that it is the wish of SMC to report objectively on the facts that have happened in history. Why do I point out the words of Mr. Horvath? Simply because the leader of their parliamentary group once said at a meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission that what one SMC member said was true for the entire SMC Group. Therefore, if it is the wish of the SMC Group to report on facts that have occurred in history objectively, it means that they will support this amendment of the archival law. For what it means to eliminate anonymity is that all relevant information that is still in the archive becomes public. And when this information becomes public, it will be objectively reported on facts that have occurred in history. Then none of us will be able to build some conspiracy theories, nor will we be able to talk about some stories that are supposed to have happened, because all the information left in our archives will become public. I cannot agree with the words of the distinguished President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, who, in his previous life, was also the head of the Administrative Law Department of the Faculty of Law, that the protection of personal data is superior to the injustices that have occurred in the past. That the protection of the personal data of the bloodstains over some right, the general right of the perpetrators to answer and that those who have been victims of these injustices get at least one, I will say, satisfaction at this level that the opening of the archives can offer. Look, until we get over this division, and I don't understand, sorry, I don't understand why the Modern Centre Party is even dealing with this subject, why it doesn't support this law and once allow these archives to open up, as they say, are not tied to any back-up uncles, are not bound to their history, so they have all the characteristics to open archives. Why are they vehemently and persistently advocating the politics that have led Slovenia to the fact that this division of the nation is still present? Let me return to Mr Horvath's words that the SDS party is a breach, for intent, the purposes of political struggle. At the moment you open the archives, this political fight will no longer be fought, because both Mr Horvat and I will have the same opportunity as Mick and Jože to enter the archives, not to get an anonymised archive and that everything that has been recorded in this archive is revealed to the public. And then, Mr Horvath, it will not be for the purposes of political struggle, but it will be for the truth to see once and for all the light of the world and to stop dealing with these things. As long as you hold your hand out of me for an incomprehensible reason over the archives, this debate will continue in the National Assembly. So, the ball is with you, support this archival novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u153	Dr Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. The secretary taught us a little about what tactics to pick up and how much time to take. Let me say that we have taken exactly as long as we need, because some implementation of the SDS does not make sense to answer five times because they do not hear. Nor does it make sense to answer Mr Tank, who has read about 20 articles of the Constitution, and I do not know why he referred to me as questions if some of the rights guaranteed by the 1991 Constitution were respected by the people of the 40th century who had tasted the horrors of totalitarianism. It's such nonsense that it really doesn't make sense to waste minutes. Not in this national council, not anywhere else. But to explain again, I think it's the third time. Mrs Irgl is asking about those anonymous letters where everything is blacked out. Whether this paper has been brought to it by someone who is not a scientific researcher or a research journalist, and it is correct that he has received such a version of the document because he has nothing to see sensitive personal data or has brought it to a research journalist or a scientific researcher, the archival commission has rejected the decision because it considers that in a particular case it is the protection of sensitive personal data over the interest of information or the interest to gain insight into sensitive personal data on the sex life of a particular person, the health situation of a particular person or an intimate life which has no connection with political threats or other matters. So the archive commission is that one. Who's on the archival committee, I said. It was appointed in 2012. She was appointed by the government of Janez Janša and is led by Andrea Valič Zver, your member. Gentlemen of the SDS, you're getting yourself together. This is complete absurdity and you attack your archival commission to make it work badly. Let us then deal with it, then open it up and assume this responsibility, if the personal files of those who have been pursued by the Rise of the Year may be available to you and to store sensitive personal information in them. Let her know that she has other members convinced and that she will open it, and there will be no problems, and we will not be wasting our time here. As for my alleged will to introduce anonymization. Mr. Dezhman came after me, which you praised. He opened it to everyone, just like you want to do today. Anyone who had five minutes of time could have read sensitive personal data and was punished by the inspectorate. In criminal proceedings, he was punished for violating the archival law. I didn't get any fines. So much for who broke the archival law. Come in. Why did it turn out to be "secret" last year? Since the SDS adopted and opened the archival law in 2006 and in 2007 Janez Janša signed the regulation, the government regulation that the material of SDV is accessible only under special conditions and under special arrangements. In 2008, the Director of Sove Rupnik, named Janez Janša, and the Director of Kosher, appointed by the Government of Janez Janša, concluded an agreement on the non-availability of SDV by 2044. And then Selan could come in and put the "secret" markings up. So, my dear gentlemen from SDS, it seems to me that you've been fighting yourself all along or this episode that you've been explaining about how Selan came and gave the signs "secret." Of course, it can be because he relied on the agreement between the two directors you set up. So they already knew there had to be something more secret. But this is a story about classified information that is completely different from the sensitive personal data that we're talking about today. If Mr. Logar thinks that Mick and France need to look at the sex life and health conditions of their neighbor and that this is a constitutional category, or I don't know what kind, then it's an honor. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u155	Order, please! Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On 6 June 2011, when we had a triple referendum, Slovenian citizens and citizens made it clear that they want open archives. After that, it wasn't a problem. But the problem arose — when? During the second Janša government, when the then Director of the Sove Dr. Damir Črnčec transferred the archives of the former Udba from Sovo to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and thus became a public matter. It was only then that this transfer enabled us to come up with different cases such as Stjepan Crnogoorac and so on, where we saw the eminent gentlemen in Slovenian society, including Janez Zemalerič, Silva Gorenc and the others in fact dirty to have bloody hands and so on. That's not what I'm saying. Let's wait a while longer, I'm sure the Austrians and the Germans will also attach to my claims. Then we went into a change of law. There was also a referendum, which, while convincingly saying what people thought, did not reach the quota. And what did we achieve after this referendum? When someone asks for material, they get material like this. So it's all black. There's nothing out of this. I can agree to a certain extent with Mr Matić, who said that someone who is not a scientific researcher may have asked for this material, probably had Mr Omerzo or Mr Lejak in mind, but on the other hand, I can ask myself why those who are scientific researchers do not apply for such material. Why do those who really need to deal with these matters in order to clear this up not deal with it? But those who want to deal with it, publish books, issue lists that are scary on the basis of these documents are denied access to material? I have great respect for some, including my colleagues from the SMC. However, I find it interesting, Mr Mitja Horvat, who was last my professor, I did not know what he meant when he said that we were manipulating law in the SDS. We have not manipulated the right to interpret it in our own way, but the law now says that we will take a Member's mandate. I don't know, fix it if I'm wrong, but we're not that way. However, when you say, let's deal with young people, let's deal with the past, look, I agree with everything. We have proposed 35 laws in the Slovenian Democratic Party so far. Only one was accepted. Those relating to cooperation between the National Assembly and in the event of the appointment of certain individuals to European functions. You turned down everything else. Laws also concern young people concerning the future of young people, dual school systems, traineeships. On Friday, you will reject our marriage regarding the housing problems of young people. And please give your support to this matter, so that everything is accessible to all and that this chapter is finally completed. By rejecting this law when it remains inaccessible to certain people, those dealing with it should, of course, be accessible, but they do not want to deal with it, with a specific subject, is of course accessible. But since we're not dealing with it, it's a problem, we don't know. By opening this matter, we will also close this chapter of history and no one will be able to tell us that we are dealing with history. Because, as you say, we're fighting some kind of cultural battle. So what's a cultural fight? It's a battle of values, it's about finally clearing up the past. Anyone who doesn't know the past can't even be seen in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u157	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. The SDS Group is of the opinion that the substance of the bill is to determine the relationship between the right of the public to information and the right to the protection of personal data. The fact is that I am not responsible for these particular relations, nor am I, nor is Irgle, a respected colleague, with her proposal for a law, but is the Constitutional Court, the Information Commissioner, the Ombudsman and, in this case, the archival commission. That the SDS Group is not accountable to the Slovenian court, we already know that. Today, however, I am surprised that neither the work of the Ombudsman nor the work of the information officer is appropriate. I personally respect these two institutions in this place, and therefore, on the basis of their opinion on the proposal of the parliamentary group, to which both institutions have actually given a very negative opinion, I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u159	Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor to prepare Ms Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I have a little reply to those who have previously appointed me in their performances, such as Mr Tabakovic, the predecessor. You said you haven't read the case since the previous Members. You played a good game of directors putting it on the table. That's right. Let's see something else. Now, Mr. Matić, let's stop lying! I know you have nothing to do with God. Yeah, well, you mentioned me, too, but it's not a good thing. Because you gave the wrong information completely. The exact data is as follows. In 1996 or 1997, the Drnovsk government said that the archives of the Owl should be placed in your archives. I don't know exactly when you became director. But the fact is, the archives weren't there in 2006. Even the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, I do not know whether you were the director or not during this period, nor did Owl respect this for anything in the world. If you were there at that time, then you didn't respect the law. Let's move on. 2006 we have adopted a law under which we have said not only that you must deliver it, but also that it must become public. The regulation mentioned at this point is completely misleading to the public. The regulation you are mentioning does not allow the Director of the Archives Close Owl. He won't allow it! If we can read Slovenian, it's clear. He won't allow it! You are only right in the part where you said that those directors, including Mr Rupnik, signed such a document. You're right about that. However, we have learned of this document, of this treaty, only when we were no longer in the government. In short, the director of the Owl has concluded this by way of the government. Exactly. And don't laugh at the fact that the government knew about it. The President of the party received this contract from the late Prime Minister of the Government at a meeting in the Government. And that's where we first saw her. The document does not have a legal basis and passed through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's not fair for this part to be deceiving. That's very irresponsible. Look, I have to propose to Andrea Valicz the Beast to leave this committee. Because this is your only plant now, because now Andreja Valič the Beast represents to you – you know what, I'll show you. You're two meters underwater and you've got a straw and you're breathing and you're keeping your life alive, in saying, through this straw. This straw is Andrea Valicz the Beast. If she resigns from that function, you will sink with your nebulosis. Because now it's all Andre's fault. Yeah, then what were you doing in the archive? So you don't sell some kind of pumpkin around here. Yes, look, Mr. Horvath, when you say you're being attacked. Yeah, who's attacking you? I have some martial arts police, tell me who's attacking you, I'll defend you. I really want to defend you, not last but physically, you know, I'm gonna help you. But don't talk about how you feel about protecting human rights. Absolutely not! You, as a lawyer, have pushed "Janez Janša out of Parliament" as a professor of law. Yeah, how now? You also pressed this button, of course in client blindness and neglect, because I believe you have enough expertise as a professor, but you did. So don't say anything like that. I'm sorry. I'm out of time. May I continue? No, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-22-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u161	All those of you who wanted to discuss it. So I conclude the general debate. In doing so, I inform you or apologize to you for the problems we had on the time-sharing list. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2015, in the context of the votes I hereby terminate this agenda item and also the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow, fifteen minutes after the 19th extraordinary session. Goodbye.
