ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to resume the 10th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mrs Vojka Shergan by 16:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on environmental protection by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members, all present! The proposed law amending the Environmental Protection Act deletes the provisions of Article 172, paragraph 3, and Article 172, paragraph 4, of the Environmental Protection Act. The main purpose of deleting these provisions is to fulfil the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to the requirements of the European Commission, in order to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in case C-49/10 of 2010. By this judgment, the Court found that the Republic of Slovenia was in breach of Directive 2008/1/EC because, by 30 October 2007, it had not taken the necessary measures to operate the existing installations on that day with appropriate environmental permits. Since the Republic of Slovenia has failed to fulfil its obligations under that judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as a number of devices without a legal environmental permit still operated, the European Commission is 25. Ten. 2012 sent an official reminder to the Republic of Slovenia in which it invited it to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In doing so, the Commission also drew attention to the provision of Article 172, paragraph 3, of the Environmental Protection Act, since it was precisely because of this provision of the existing installation that they could operate without an environmental permit. The Republic of Slovenia replied extensively to the European Commission's claim by letter. It is also the European Commission in 2013, 27. 9. has sent an official notice for incorrect transposition of certain provisions of Directive 2008/1/EC, which also lists a violation of the provisions of Article 5(1) of the Directive, also in conjunction with the provisions of Article 172, third paragraph, of the Environmental Protection Act. The Republic of Slovenia has also responded extensively to this reminder, namely 26. 11. 2013 The European Commission insists on its claims under those official reminders and requires the provisions of Article 172, paragraph 3, to be deleted. By adopting the proposed amendment of the law, the Republic of Slovenia may avoid effectively bringing an action before a court and in the event of a finding of violation of the penalty for default. The penalty at stake is a round one, a million 600 000 euros and 9,000 euros a day until the execution of the judgment. In the second article of the proposed amendments, we are also correcting the error in the previous provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, whereby operators of installations that may cause pollution of a larger scale should submit a baseline report on soil and groundwater conditions at any time on any proposed change from their installation or any change to the environmental permit that would take place after official duty. Consequently, the provisions of Article 84(2) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act shall be amended in such a way as to ensure that this obligation occurs only with any intended major modification of the device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u3	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 18th emergency session. Seven. 2015 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law amending the Environmental Protection Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 32nd meeting, on 2. Seven. 2015 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. On behalf of the proposer, the Minister for Environment and Space, Irena Majcen, stressed that the main purpose of the bill is to comply with the European Commission's 2010 European Court of Justice's requirements. By judgment, the Court found that the Republic of Slovenia was in breach of Council Directive 96/61/EU of 24. 9. 1996 on integrated pollution prevention and control, since up to 31. Ten. 2007 did not take the necessary measures to ensure that existing installations capable of causing more pollution operate on that day with appropriate environmental permits. Even after that judgment, the Republic of Slovenia failed to fulfil its obligations, as a number of devices were still operating without a legal environmental permit and the European Commission was therefore 25. Ten. 2012 sent a letter of formal notice to the Republic of Slovenia urging it to execute its judgment, since it is precisely because of this provision of the existing device that it is possible to operate without an environmental permit. The European Commission is 27. 9. 2013 also sent an official reminder to the Republic of Slovenia for incorrect transposition of certain provisions of Directive 2008/1/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15. 1. 2008 on the comprehensive prevention and control of pollution, by which Directive 96/61/EC has been implemented, which also refers to a violation of the provisions of Article 5(1) of the Directive, also in conjunction with the provisions of Article 172, third paragraph, of the Environmental Protection Act. The adoption of the proposed law may prevent the Republic of Slovenia from effectively bringing an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union and in the event of a finding of a violation of the penalty for failure to comply with its obligations. It has already been pointed out below that the draft law also removes the error in the previous provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, whereby operators of devices which may cause environmental pollution of a greater extent should submit a baseline report on the state of soil and groundwater on each intended change of their installation or any change in the environmental permit that would take place on an official basis. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed at the meeting of the Committee that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. It pointed out that there were no comments on the individual provisions of the legislative and legal service proposal, but the opinion pointed out that it was not clear from the explanation of the article whether there were still any proceedings currently under way on that legal basis, since in such a case the termination of that legal basis could have legal consequences for ongoing proceedings. She found that the representative of the applicant gave an unexplained warning in the context of the introductory presentation to the draft law. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the bill and has no comments on it. The discussion expressed the view that the infringement of the draft law on the deletion of the provision of Article 172, paragraph 3, which also permits the operation of those devices which have not obtained an environmental permit if the reasons for the failure to comply with the obligations of the operator on the part of the competent ministry are, in principle, appropriate. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u6	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The 1993 Environmental Protection Act was renewed at the time of Slovenia's entry into the EU and has been amended and supplemented six times. In autumn 2013, the European Commission sent an official reminder to the Republic of Slovenia for incorrect transposition of certain provisions of Directive 2008/1/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on comprehensive pollution prevention and control. Even without warning The European Commission should ensure that the then government prevents over-pollution of air, soil and groundwater, especially in the area of large industrial facilities, and it is therefore unclear why it has not amended and supplemented the law in question in spite of judgements and reminders. Thus, in February this year, the Republic of Slovenia has not yet complied with its obligations to ensure that all installations operate in accordance with that Directive on pollution prevention and control, and the European Commission has decided to reopen proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Article 172 of the Environmental Protection Act lays down an environmental permit for existing installations which may lead to pollution of a larger scale. The deletion of the third and related fourth paragraph of this Article shall constitute the abolition of the legal basis for the application of special benefits in the procedures for obtaining an environmental protection authorisation even where the reasons for failure to fulfil the obligations of the operator are on the part of the Ministry. In the SMC Group, we also support the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act because it prevents financial consequences related to the failure to comply with the requirements of the EU Court of Justice judgment in Case C49 10. This effect would have been borne by the Republic of Slovenia and would have resulted if the amendment of the law had not been adopted. In the long term, however, it seems even more important that existing installations without an environmental permit cease their operation, at the same time, in the event of a major change in the device in accordance with national and European industrial emission regulations, these devices will have to carry out an environmental impact assessment. The very negative impact on the natural and social environment of these devices is what has also encouraged the necessary changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u7	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, last Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! Once again, we have before us a proposal for a law on environmental protection following an urgent procedure, because we have not amended this law properly in the past. The Republic of Slovenia has not fulfilled its obligations under the Directive until the deadline, since all existing installations have not obtained an environmental permit, but because of the provision referred to in Article 172(3) of the Environmental Protection Act, the reasons for the failure to comply with the obligations of operators were, in particular, extremely long administrative and judicial proceedings. This is why the European Commission brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. By its judgment in October 2010, the Court found that the Republic of Slovenia had failed to comply with its obligations under this Directive within the prescribed time limit. As the Republic of Slovenia failed to comply with its obligations under that judgment, as some devices were still operating without a legal environmental permit, the European Commission sent an official notice to the Republic of Slovenia urging it to execute the judgment of the Court. The Republic of Slovenia replied extensively to the European Commission’s claims by letter of 20. 12. 2012. The European Commission is 27. 9. It also sent an official reminder to the Republic of Slovenia for incorrect transposition of certain provisions of Directive 2008/1/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2008 on the comprehensive prevention and control of pollution, in which it also cited a violation of the provisions of Article 5(1) of the Directive, also in conjunction with the provision of Article 172(3) of the Environmental Protection Act. The Republic of Slovenia also responded extensively to this reminder by letter dated 26. 11. 2013 However, the European Commission continues to insist on its claims under those official reminders and requires the provisions of Article 172, paragraph 3, to be deleted. The European Commission is 26. 2. 2015 decided to reopen proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia before the Court of Justice of the European Union because it does not fulfil its obligations under the Pollution Prevention and Control Directives. The amendment of the environmental law before us meets the requirements of the European Commission regarding the enforcement of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and corrects errors in the submission of the initial report. The adoption of the law by emergency procedure will take the measures required by the European Commission in proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the transposition of the Directive. The adoption of the law by emergency procedure may remove the possibility of the Republic of Slovenia being sentenced to a fine. In the future, it is necessary to ensure the implementation of European directives in a timely manner, not only when European courts threaten to pay us fines. We will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! We have before us a second consideration of the Proposal for Amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, which aims to meet the European Commission's requirements for the enforcement of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Existing installations that will not have an environmental protection permit until the law is in effect will have to cease to operate in accordance with the provisions of the novel. Brussels initiated the procedure against Slovenia because the Lafarge Cement cement plant operated without an appropriate environmental protection permit. The Commission also requested a daily fine of EUR 9 000 9 per day on second referral to Slovenia until the obligations were met and a lump sum of EUR 1.6 million. The proposed amendments also remove the error in the transitional provisions. Operators who are required to submit a baseline report in accordance with the law will submit it only if the environmental permit is amended and updated in order to harmonise the operation of the plant with the conclusions on best available technologies, in accordance with European industrial emission regulations. Members of the DeSUS Group and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a law precisely because of the formidable high fine awaiting the Republic of Slovenia if we do not address the above-mentioned problems of the operation of installations which do not have an environmental permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u11	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u12	Dear Mr. President, Minister! The basic purpose of the consideration of the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act is to delete Article 172, paragraph 3, of the Act, which provides that the operator for a device causing pollution of a greater magnitude must obtain an appropriate environmental permit, otherwise it must be closed or extinguished by a judicial inspection decision, unless the reasons for failure to comply with the obligations of the operator on the part of the competent ministry. Such an exception was not acceptable to the European Commission requiring the deletion of those provisions of the law and referring to the enforcement of the 2010 judgment of the Court of Justice. The Court found that Slovenia was in breach of the European Council Directive of September 1996 on the comprehensive prevention and control of pollution by 31 October 2007 because, until 31 October 2007, Slovenia had not taken the necessary measures to ensure that existing installations capable of causing pollution of a larger scale operated with appropriate environmental permits on that day. For this reason, the European Commission sent an official reminder to the Republic of Slovenia, in which it called on the State to implement that judgment. A bad year later, the second official reminder was also followed by the incorrect transposition of certain provisions of the Directive, in which the Commission reiterates its violation of Article 172, paragraph 3, of this Law. Despite the extensive explanations made by Slovenia on the two official reminders of the European Commission, the latter insists on its findings. At the end of February of this year, the Commission also decided to bring proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union against our country in this case. In the event that the Court finds a violation of the Republic of Slovenia, it means that we are exposed to a penalty of approximately EUR 600,000 and an additional EUR 9 000 fine for each additional day until the obligation is fulfilled. Any such penalty, in particular in such high amounts and in the circumstances of general budgetary savings, cannot be acceptable and must be avoided. That is why we will also support the amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u13	The text is given by the United Left Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia refers to the transposition of European directives into our legal order and to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the proposal to amend the law. In 2013, we experienced a major amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, and at that time, the Lafarge cement plant acted without an environmental permit, allowing the article you want to delete now, as it was written there that such devices could operate without authorisation even after 31. Ten. 2007 – Pay attention, 2007 – if the reasons for the failure to comply with the obligations of the operator of the existing installation are the Ministry's. The judgment of the European Court of Justice was precisely due to the failure to comply with the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the continuous operation of the already mentioned cement plant. Rather than allowing the State of Lafarge to issue a decision at that time to terminate its operations, it prefers to change the way in which environmental permits are obtained. Today, when Lafarge Cement doesn't work, it obviously doesn't matter anymore. The law therefore amends because the Republic of Slovenia has not issued a decision within the prescribed time limit to terminate the operation of a cement plant which has not obtained an environmental protection permit, which should be the reason for the failure of the operator to comply with the obligations of the Ministry. The government is now elegantly proposing a solution whereby Slovenia is supposed to avoid paying EU fines and, of course, it is asking us whether or not there may still be proceedings under the aforementioned articles of the law, which are deleted [[..]] We can read in the bill that the reasons for non-compliance are, I quote, "extremely long administrative and judicial proceedings". Does this mean that operators use all legal loopholes to delay the process of obtaining an environmental permit up to 8 years after the time limit for obtaining it? Rather than delete the provisions under which the Government is required to issue a decision to terminate the operation, the Government and the Department of Resources should once again ensure that such environmental disputed establishments are closed. In adopting such a law, we also expect the Government to present a list of devices and operators directly affected by this amendment. The Government did not attach such a list to the bill. If we read this marriage, if you're not familiar with the background, you don't even know what it's all about. Nor did her representatives want to talk about this or were they willing to discuss it at the parent parliamentary committee when I asked them about it on behalf of the United Left. It is unclear which irregular transpositions of the Directive are to be eliminated by deleting paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 172. All these two points state is that, I quote, "...the inspection responsible for environmental protection, after the decision to reject the environmental permit has now become legally binding, must issue a decision to terminate the operation of the device". The argument for the adoption of this law is poor, and the consequences of its adoption are unclear, so we cannot support this law in the United Left Group. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u15	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Our living space is threatened by a number of harmful factors, which, unfortunately, are often caused by the right person with irresponsible, sometimes even heinous behavior. Thus, nature and a healthy environment are not something that has been given to us for all time. For a number of years, we took advantage of our natural heritage, our underinvestment, and their preservation. Our environment has become so vulnerable that we need to look for long-term and comprehensive solutions, from preventing and reducing environmental burdens, from abandoning the use of hazardous substances to sustainable use of natural resources and from increasing the use of renewable energy sources. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today’s amendment to the Environmental Protection Act is far from sufficient and comprehensive regulation of our living environment. As we have already been trained in this mandate, we are talking again about the so-called ad hoc solution to the individual problem of preventing the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of society, which is why we need to adopt a proposal for amendments to the law on an urgent basis. We must – therefore, I stress, we must. What would happen if we did not do so today? Slovenia should pay a daily fine of EUR 9 000 to the European Commission until it fulfils its obligations to ensure that all existing installations operate in accordance with the Comprehensive Air Pollution Prevention and Control Directive. In addition, a flat-rate amount of EUR 604 thousand should be paid. Let's take a closer look. Managers of existing installations should be up to 31. Ten. 2007 to obtain an environmental permit for installations capable of causing pollution of a greater magnitude. These are those installations which, on the date of application of the Regulation, were in operation or had previously obtained a legal building permit under the building regulations in a series of activities which may lead to environmental pollution of a larger scale. The Environmental Protection Act, despite a certain deadline for obtaining an environmental permit, now allows that where the operator of an existing device does not obtain this authorisation within the prescribed time limit and there are reasons for failure to comply with this obligation on the part of the Ministry, the device may continue to operate. The proposal for a new law therefore deletes this exception, leaving existing installations which will have to cease to operate until the amendment is put in place. What are the reasons on the Ministry's side in this case? As we are already used to, in this case, we are talking again about extremely long administrative and judicial proceedings. Colleagues and colleagues! Christian Democrats in this case, too, find that things are being stopped again and again in our legal standards under the tough and scrupulous rules that are the result of the slow management of our country's tasks. Once again, the government is solving one aspect of environmental protection that threatens the country to pay the penalty. The Court of Justice of the European Union, in its judgment of October 2010, found that Slovenia had not taken the necessary measures within the prescribed time limit to grant licences for industrial plants and thus failed to fulfil its obligations under the Directive. Even after receiving the European Commission's 2012 and 2013 reminders, Slovenia has not done its homework in this area. Thus, four and a half years had gone by, and the new threat had only caused the Government to submit a proposal for a novel to meet the requirement of the directive following an urgent procedure. Once again, it is a matter of putting out fires, dealing with the problem of environmental protection in part, which is much larger and requires wider treatment. We are therefore forced to adopt the new law, I stress, forced to accept it, because, in the meantime, we are again threatened with a penalty that would cause great harm to the country. The logical question follows – why hasn't the government done this much earlier? Why are we always waiting for the last train? Let's remember that. By the end of this year, we will be hunting the last wagon again when we have to talk about how to regulate the implementation of the mandatory public environmental economic service. The area of the provision of chimney services remains one of our country's broader and priority tasks. So why would the Christian Democrats support the proposed amendment to the Law on Environmental Protection? Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, there is only one reason to avoid paying the penalty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u17	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. Seven. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, she gives the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u18	Your Honor! The amendments to the Water Act, which we adopted this March in the tasks of our government, have been dealt with with in all seriousness by our colleagues at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Water is an area where we can all agree that it is not well arranged. The change that we have on the table today governs the most urgent at this time. Given that water is a source of survival, a sustainable source of development, and that inadequate water management poses a threat to people's lives and property damage, the government has instructed us to prepare proposals for measures to reorganise water management. In recent years, unfortunately, a number of flood events have taken place that have resulted in great damage. In order to manage water effectively, it is necessary to establish a water management system in a way that enables effective, integrated and integrated water management in Slovenia, so that we recognize water as a development opportunity and not only as a barrier and a threat to space. The main purpose of the amendment or addition to the current Water Act is thus to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the reorganisation in the field of water management, namely the establishment of a Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water as an Authority in the composition of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The reorganisation in the field of water management will be carried out by combining management tasks in the field of water and transferring certain powers to the Ministry or Directorate. In accordance with the delegation of power, the Ministry or body in the composition of the Ministry will take over the staff of the Institute for Waters of the Republic of Slovenia. To this end, the tasks of the Institute, which are defined by law, should be amended accordingly, while the powers of the Water Directorate will be further determined by amending and supplementing the Regulation on Organs in the composition of the ministries, which is already in preparation. In doing so, I reiterate that none of the staff at the Institute will lose their jobs as a result. No less important is the regulation of the issue of water use or the extension of the transitional period in respect of the payment back for water use for 2014 and 2015. These are the corrective measures recorded in the audit report by the Court of Auditors in 2011. It is an equalization of obligations between those who have already had water rights and paid concessions and those who have not been granted concessions or have not paid for water rights. The issue under consideration is also dealt with by the Ministry as a priority at systemic level by granting water rights. She's working a lot. The draft law also contains the provision of a legal basis for the implementation of exceptional measures in cases where, after a natural disaster, there is still an increased level of risk due to the harmful operation of the water. It is therefore a matter of implementing exceptional measures carried out by operators of the economic public water management service when the intervention under the rules on natural disasters is terminated, but there is still an increased level of threat due to the harmful operation of the water. Furthermore, the proposal contains the implementation of the Government's measures for the budgetary rebalance with regard to the reduction of the costs for the functioning of municipalities in the area of the collection of building rights compensation. The proposal for a law includes the possibility that, under the Water Act, the way in which water and coastal land are made available is initially determined, as well as the burden of these land with real rights. A legal basis is added for the preparation of a methodology to determine the value of water and coastal land and the burden on real rights. On the basis of the Regulation, exemptions will be laid down in respect of the payment of charges for real rights on water and coastal land in the case of the construction of municipal public infrastructure, such as bridges and other water flow crossings. In conclusion, I welcome the amendment to delete the amendment to Article 3 of the Law, which deals with compensation for reduced income from agricultural activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u19	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u20	President, thank you for your word. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at the 11th meeting and the first session of the 11th session. 6. 2015 As a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 30th meeting of the President of the National Assembly. 6. In 2015, it was decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. At the request of the SDS Group that the National Assembly decide again on the decision of the College, the National Assembly shall be at its 9th session. 6. 2015 confirmed the decision of the College. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Institute of Waters of Republic Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Municipal Economy, the Agricultural Forestry Chambers of Slovenia, the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, the Association of Leaderships of Slovenia and the Law and Legal Services participated in the meeting of the Committee. Amendments to Article 16 of the SMC, Desus, SD, SDS and ZL were tabled within the deadline of business and amendments to the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors were tabled. In its supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, Minister of Environment and Space, Irena Majcen, pointed out that, in preparing the draft law, the applicant had followed in particular two main solutions, namely the extension of the compensation for water use by system, as originally prescribed by the Water Act 2013, with an extension of the period for 2014 and 2015. An extended period is necessary because concessionary acts have not yet been granted in full, but in addition to that, a water right payment regulation has not yet been adopted which is granted by a water permit. As a second major solution, however, the reorganisation of water management was highlighted on the basis of a decision adopted by the Government on 5. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The reorganisation in the field of water management will be carried out through the merger of management tasks in the field of water and the transfer of certain powers from the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia to the Ministry or to the new body in the composition of the Ministry, namely the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. In accordance with the above, the tasks of the institute, which are legally determined, should be amended accordingly, while the powers of the future Water Directorate will be further determined by amending and supplementing the Authority Regulation in the composition of the ministries. Representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mag. Tanja Strniša pointed out that the draft law also includes an amendment to Article 79 of the current law. With regard to this issue, it has been seeking for several years an appropriate arrangement to replace the existing system of payment of refunds under the current regulations on the method of payment and the criteria for calculating the remuneration for the reduction of income from agricultural activities with a view to adapting to the measures of the water protection scheme. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that certain comments from the Legal and Legislative Services were taken into account in the amendments of the Coalition Group and that further clarifications were provided by the applicant in relation to some of the comments. In doing so, she drew attention to Article 3 and stressed that, despite the amendments tabled, not all the confusion was being overcome, as the proposed regime still suggests that compensation should be intended for loss or reduction of income from agricultural activities and, on the other hand, a reduction in the value of land and agricultural holdings should be taken into account when determining the compensation. The criteria for determining the amount of compensation in the law should also be clearly laid down and probably also linked to the type of water protection measure. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Governmental and Regional Development, Jernej Verbic, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. In the debate, some opposition Members drew attention to the opinions transmitted to the Committee regarding the content of the bill by various institutions or the public concerned or to the fact that the content was not adequately aligned with all stakeholders. The most controversial was with regard to Article 3 of the draft law or Article 79 of the existing law and with regard to Article 16 of the bill relating to the transfer of the bulk of employees from the Water Institute to the future water directive. The Committee adopted amendments to SMC, DeSUS and SD's parliamentary groups [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the other amendments. [[…]] However, the amendments of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Articles 3 and 16 and of the SDS Group to Article 3 have become irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u21	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the SDS Group, we have proposed that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act be considered on a regular basis and not by a reduced procedure. We are once again faced with the practice that an important system law governing the water sector is proposed for treatment in an unusual way. Perhaps this would be justified if it would happen immediately after the floods, if some pressing problems were also to be addressed at the legislative level. At the moment, there was no need to make changes with these short-term solutions without the need for a broader discussion of all involved, as the debate on the parent committee also showed. Past experience in the adoption of comparable legislation gives rise to our concerns, as the problems posed by poorly conceived solutions later pose a major obstacle to the implementation of law in practice, and many times thankable material for the application of legal protection requirements and constitutional review. The reduced procedure is permissible when it comes to less demanding changes and legislative additions. It is clear from the proposed amendments that there are major changes and new systemic solutions that should not be dealt with in the short term. The content of the explanation of the proposed amendment of the law by the proposer also confirms this. The current state of play in the field of water management is considered unsatisfactory in terms of organisation, which is also confirmed in practice. Therefore, the proposed reorganisation in the field of water management is carried out by combining management tasks in the field of water and transferring certain powers to the Ministry or to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water as a body within the Ministry. In accordance with the delegation of power, the Ministry or body in the composition of the Ministry will also take over the staff of the Institute for Water. With the proposed solution to the extension of the transitional period for payment for water use for 2014 and 2015, the payment shall be extended on the grounds that not all concessional acts have yet been granted and the Water Right Payment Regulation granted by water licence has not yet been adopted. In this case, it is only a matter of extending the rights already laid down by the law and, on the other hand, it is necessary to ask why not all the activities and regulations already adopted have been carried out, which are already prescribed by the current law. The Ministry advocates the view that compensation for water and coastal land should be regulated at systemic level. It is reasonable, however, to charge symbolic charges for objects crossing watercourses, service and building rights. The proposed amendments to the law provide a legal basis for implementation, while at the same time preparing a regulation for the establishment of compensation for services and building rights in water and coastal areas. The Regulation should provide for an exception agreed with representatives of local communities to determine the amount of the compensation for the construction of local infrastructure facilities at 5% of the amount of the other compensation. The Water Act regulates the country's tasks in the event of water damage and the recovery of consequences. As regards intervention, it lays down only a few basic provisions on water protection and provides for the adoption of a guidance on concrete intervention measures. Not in the Water Act, but in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, the period following the completion of the intervention is not regulated. In the proposed amendment to the law, it shall be governed by a period prior to the implementation of the recovery after the completion of the intervention under the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, which has so far been unregulated. The Ministry should invite the professional and other public to deliver their opinions and comments in order to draw up such important rules. In the past, in order to prevent corruption, the Commission has repeatedly pointed out the inadequacy of adopting such important legislation by means of a reduced or urgent procedure. Water management has a spatial, infrastructure and environmental dimension. The current organisation of this area is more subordinate to the environmental dimension and infrastructure is extremely inefficient, and it is even more important that we adopt laws in this area with due consideration. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me stress that we do not oppose the amendments to the Water Act. On the contrary. New solutions are necessary. We are pleased that the coalition has listened to the substantive debate and warnings on the Committee and has proposed several amendments that we have already proposed on the Committee. In case the amendments are accepted, we will support the law in the SDS. Finally, I must point out that it is confirmed that important laws are being dealt with according to normal procedure in order to avoid the adoption of bad solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In preparing the draft amendment to the Water Act, the proposer pursued two main solutions. The first is the extension of the compensation for the use of water by system, as originally written in the Water Act 2013, with an extension of the period for 2014 and 2015. An extension of the period is necessary because concessionary acts have not yet been granted in full and, in addition to that, a water right payment regulation has not yet been adopted which is granted by a water permit. This solution ensures equal treatment for all those who need water and do not yet have water rights, achieves budgetary sustainability, while making operators significantly less burdened. In particular, the taxpayers of the compensation are users of water for the production of beverages and baths that are in use and have not yet obtained a concession or a water licence and will have to pay compensation for the use of water for 2014 and 2015. However, water users for the production of beverages which have been granted a water permit for the production of beverages will have to pay for the right to water in the case of water licences issued for 2014 and 2015 and the legal or natural person referred to in Article 199.b, fourth paragraph, which was authorised for the production of beverages withdrawn from drinking water facilities and installations issued between 22 December 2013 and 31. This Decision shall enter into force on the The second main solution is the reorganisation of water management on the basis of a decision adopted by the Government on 5 March 2015. The reorganisation in the field of water management will be carried out through the merger of management tasks in the field of water and the transfer of certain powers from the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia to the Ministry or to the new body in the composition of the Ministry, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. In accordance with the delegation of power, the Ministry or body in the composition of the Ministry will take over certain staff of the Institute of Water. In accordance with the above, the tasks of the institute, which are legally determined, should be amended accordingly, while the powers of the future water directorate will be determined in more detail by amending and supplementing the Authority Regulation in the composition of the ministries. This proposed water management reorganisation is strongly opposed by employees at the Water Institute, who, together with the Education and Education Union, science and culture of Slovenia, point out the problem of the proposed method of transfer of employees from the Water Institute to the Ministry. According to our assessment, the proposed reorganisation does not constitute a distortion of the competence and mission of the Institute of Water, but the professionally strengthened ministry can certainly contribute to a more efficient water management system. Of course, it is clear that employees at the Institute of Waters that will be transferred to the Ministry will retain all rights under the employment contract and other rights and labour obligations. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we also consider that the law is not a suitable place to define the precise systemisation of jobs and organisation of work, but, as is the case with other similar situations, the basic provision on the transfer of work of employees, jobs, equipment and documentation must be introduced into the draft law. The same solutions have already been used, for example, when employees were taken over from outside the State Administration to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, in taking over employees from the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The appropriateness of the way in which employees are taken over in this particular case was also confirmed by the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Since we believe that the proposed solutions are appropriate in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a new law. At the same time, I announce my support for the coalition's amendments to Articles 3, 13, 14 and 17, while we will not support the other amendments proposed in our Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u25	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act is certainly necessary in some contexts and also solves some things that have not been regulated in time. This certainly applies in particular to payments or the extension of payments for compensation for water use. This Act extends for the period 2014 and 2015, which is necessary because concessionary acts have not yet been fully granted or the Water Right Payment Regulation has not been adopted and the water has been applied during this period. A completely different content is the reorganisation of water management. If we look at it gravely, it intervenes in this reorganisation mainly in the research work and attempts to strengthen the administrative work, the administrative work, but nothing is done on the execution site or related to the performance part only in the period when the natural disaster occurs and temporary intervention works are to be carried out and there is a need to prevent further possible consequences in the event of a repeated natural disaster. This part on temporary measures has also been undefined and we welcome it, and it is therefore right to try to define a period in which it is possible to interfere with the watercourses even after interventions, so as to mitigate the consequences as soon as possible. The second is how to organise only the Slovenian Water Directorate, which is also within the water management system itself, has been long awaited, especially for the reason that there will finally be someone at the Ministry of the Environment who will be an interlocutor in the field of water management. Unfortunately, this part is trying to organize itself in a way that will drastically reverse research work, so that researchers will in fact become administrative workers, officials, and this is certainly not a good journey for the future development of the water economy and water management in Slovenia. The fact is that the Institute of Water in its 25-year tradition has developed the scope of action and, last but not least, has created a human resources structure, with which it has also opened the way for the European Union to obtain funds and has greatly contributed to the professional solutions that were often needed when, in particular, the lack of resources required the most appropriate solutions. The most important part of the reorganisation that is missing in this law is, in fact, the provision of funds. The fact that the work of the Institute will be reversed and researchers transferred to the administrative area will also largely mean that the resources from the Water Fund for research will be made available for the functioning of the administration of the public authority. Instead of keeping the money at the implementation level, if I may say so, we will use it for the functioning of the national authority. I'm sure that's not good. Otherwise, if we do not see the water financing system more clearly in Slovenia, no reorganisation will bring effective solutions. Unfortunately, this law does not solve these key problems; some improvements will be made, so we will not oppose this law. We are extremely concerned, however, that the attitude towards research work and the people who will become officials under this law has been completely inadequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u27	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u28	Once again a nice greeting, especially to the extended team of the Ministry. In the Group of Members, the Joint Left of the proposal cannot be supported because of its content, the way in which it is prepared and also the treatment in the parliamentary procedure. The relationship demonstrated by the Ministry of Justice is a representative attitude, regretting this coalition to the issue of water in general. Before it, before this amendment we have already met cutting water monitoring resources, the SMC is somehow sinister about recording the right to drinking water into the constitution. Companies such as Pivovarna Laško, Droga, Kolinska and Radenska are being quietly privatised to water resources or have already gone, from which foreign corporations have large profits for little work and low concessions, sometimes not at all. Of the 29 water wells in Slovenia for the food processing industry there are already more than half of them, 17 of the highest quality, owned by foreign corporations. The Ministry has prepared the amendments without the cooperation of the professional and interested public, is adopted after a reduced procedure, which is inappropriate for such major changes as are envisaged and is also not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, a proposal for amendments to the coalition of decisions and harmful crown processes by de facto abolition, referred to as the reorganisation of the Water Institute, is the only public professional institute in the field of water management. The excuse for reorganisation has been flooding in recent years, even though the profession has consistently warned that the problem is not in intervention but in insufficient preventive action. Slovenia will lose a number of experience and international references gained by the Institute in decades of operation through the reorganisation. The original text of the amendments even envisaged that experts from the Institute should be employed, beware, at the Ministry of the position of the lowest officials. The second set of problems that the proposal raises, continues and even deepens is linked to the issue of concessions. At the meeting of the Home Committee on the Environment, Infrastructure and Space, the Minister herself highlighted the irregularity of concessions. User's drinking water is 11. For all wells, only seven documents are available. The concessionaires paid €1 million for water last year, €463 in inter-resort coordination, which apparently took place in a transparent and non-lobby manner, and this amount was halved or exactly €712,000 490. The Ministry will even have to pay some money back. Concessions for water to drink producers with foreign owners will be lower this year. According to the Association of Leaders, amendments to the Water Act reduce the price of drinking producers and the difference should be passed on to water users in baths, heating and so on if mineral, thermal or thermal mineral water is needed. This means a potential loss of concessionary revenues, and this also risks the depletion of water supplies, as reducing concessions means promoting greater production of non-healthy drinks, by the way, by the way, if they are too sugary. For all these reasons and what else could I say, we cannot support the proposal for amendments to the Water Act in the United Left Group. As we have already proposed at the meeting of the parent committee, it would make sense to withdraw this proposal, to put it into regular procedure, to exclude the area of concessions that could be regulated in this amendment, but we have somehow stumbled upon a deaf ear. Similarly, it has happened to all stakeholders, both professional and local communities, who are involved in this issue. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u29	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u30	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Water as a natural resource requires the careful and responsible conduct of its users, requires comprehensive care and the provision of conditions for the conservation and management of water quantities and the promotion of sustainable use of water. Today's proposal for amendments and supplementing the Water Act represents only a fraction of this whole area, which will need to be regulated as soon as possible, since this time we are talking mainly about the merger of administrative tasks in this area and the extension of the transitional period for payment for water use in 2014 and 2015. The remaining problems and implementation of measures in the field of water protection, including farming in water protection areas and the acquisition of substitute land or the payment of monetary compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in those areas, remain, it appears, left to the next amendment of the law. Well, let's take a closer look. The extension of the transitional period for the payment of actual water use for which the debtors have not paid for water rights for 2014 and 2015 should be adopted. We are talking about retroactive regulation of public water payments before water rights are granted. This is constitutionally controversial and constitutes an intervention in the principle of legal certainty, as such an arrangement was established in 2002 and we are still talking about a transitional period. Let me just say it's been 13 years. It is truly incomprehensible to talk about the transition again. Not all concessionary acts have yet been granted, nor has the Water Right Payment Regulation, which is granted by water permit been adopted. The government should issue concessionary acts and the Ministry of Water Authorisations by 31 December 2014 at the latest. So that everyone who needs water will be in the same position, we are again forced to accept solutions that are only temporary or temporary. With the proposed amendments and additions today, we are also interfering with the organisation of work in the field of water management. The merger of management tasks and the transfer of certain powers and employees of the Institute of Water to the Ministry or to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water as a body within the Ministry constitutes a step towards a more effective implementation of the tasks in this field. The proposed reorganisation of work is also welcome from the point of view of public interest and better communication with end-users, while the Institute will maintain the references and continue the implementation of the established professional projects. The concern of some that the Institute for Water will thus be doomed to failure is, of course, completely superfluous. Since the acquisition of public servants from a public body to a public body constitutes an exception to the general rules of public administration, such acquisition will be carried out by means of a special sectoral law, this is today's proposed amendment to the Water Act. However, the issue of the payment of monetary compensation or the provision of substitute land for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas remains unresolved. For the new law does not remove all ambiguities. The criteria for determining the amount of compensation are also not clearly laid down and are aimed at individual conclusion of compensation contracts. In order to prevent any subjective assessment and decision-making, the Government should no doubt lay down a set of measures for which compensation for the reduction of income, the method of payment and the criteria for calculating the amount of the refund may be paid. For this reason, we will support the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the coalition, which proposes the deletion of article 3. Dear colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister and staff! In view of the above, the Christian Democrats will support the amendment of the Water Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u31	The word is given by the Allied Parliamentary Group, for which the Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The new law provides retroactively for payment for water use for 2014 and 2015. In the light of the findings and recommendations of the Court of Auditors in the Alliance, we expect that all concessions will be issued this year, as the audit found that, due to the irregularity of this area and the unallocated concessions, the state budget loses millions of euros of potential revenue each year. Dearly beloved, at times when every euro is important when we save on every step, we lose millions every year because of unsharing concessions! It is interesting, however, that when accepting a novelty of complications, it did not lead to a proposal to extend the collection of water payers to users of mineral and thermal water. 'Cause you haven't paid up till now. Most of the comments were about the procedure for the adoption of the novel and the envisaged reorganisation of the field of leadership. In spite of the complications, the Alliance supports the establishment of a water directorate as a body in the Ministry of Environment and Space, where management tasks in the field of water will be combined. In the previous mandate, the Ministry was reminded of the lack of expertise needed by the State in the preparation of strategic water documents, in the planning of anti-floating measures, as well as in the performance of administrative tasks such as the granting of licences and water-use concessions. In the Alliance, we would like to point out that the novel touches on important issues such as the granting of water licences. Despite the addition of Article 125, we believe that the law on drinking water supply is subordinated. As you know, in the Alliance, together with the SD, Desus and ZL MPs, we proposed recording the right to drinking water in the Constitution. The proposed amendment sets out the universal right to drinking water for all inhabitants of Slovenia under the same conditions, which means that everyone has the right to drinking water and that the provision of drinking water for the population is carried out by non-profit public services. With the change of constitution, we want to ensure that water supplies cannot be implemented by either domestic or foreign private law. Water supplies worldwide are shrinking. Today, drinking water represents only a percentage of the total amount of water in the world. It is not too much to note that our Water Act does not give priority to the use of clean drinking water over all other uses of water. The conditions for connection to the water network and the conditions under which the operator can terminate the supply shall be left to the Government and to the municipal decree. The management of the right to water must be uniform, not as it has been so far, when each congregation sets out conditions for the cessation of drinking water supply. The right to water is linked to the right to life and health and not to political will. As we know, a new energy law has been adopted in the previous term so that vulnerable residents of distribution operators cannot be excluded from the electricity or the deduction under a quantity that is necessary in terms of summer time, temperature, place of residence or health. Therefore, water supply could also be followed by these solutions, since the right to water is part of the rights that are fundamental to the lives of people. It is also not negligible that this April the European Court of Human Rights addressed the issue of whether the country has adopted a regulatory framework which obliges the State to provide its residents, particularly vulnerable groups such as Roma, with access to drinking water. In Slovenia, the consumption of drinking water reaches about 150 litres per person per day, while in Roma settlements there are only 20 litres of water per day for entire families. It is therefore even smaller quantities of water than international standards require in cases of humanitarian crises. The Constitution clearly states that, in order to ensure human rights for all, including Roma, the country is responsible, so we tabled a proposal for a novel Law on the Roma Community a few days ago in the Alliance. The aim of the law is to establish a framework to ensure conditions for placing Roma settlements in a space, to regulate them and to improve their living conditions, including access to drinking water. In the Alliance, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u33	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u34	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The current situation in the field of water management tasks has long been seen as unsatisfactory from the point of view of organisation. This has occurred in the past in particular at times of floods. The Government therefore ordered the Ministry of Environment and Space, in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration, to carry out all the necessary activities in order to bring together all management tasks in the field of water and to establish a Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water as an Authority in the composition of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the independent budgetary consumer, which is to begin its operation on 1 January 2016. In addition, the Government ordered the Ministry of Environment and Space to submit to it by May 2015 a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act, which we are dealing with today. The law will thus determine the competences of the RS Institute for Waters to be adequately adapted and transferred to the Directorate. In accordance with the delegation of power, the Directorate will also take over the staff of the Institute. The tasks of the Institute shall be amended accordingly by law and the powers of the Directorate shall be specified in more detail by amending and regulating the Authority Regulation in the composition of the ministries. In addition to the reorganisation, the law also provides for an extension of the previous period for the payment of compensation for water use, since the current regime covers only the period from 2005 to 31. 12. The Law therefore extends the period of payment for 2014 and 2015. With the proposed solution, the payment for the refund, as already regulated under the Water Supplement Act 2013, is extended because not all concessional acts have yet been granted and the Water Rights Payment Regulation has not yet been adopted when granted a water permit. Payment shall be made for the period of actual use of water in 2014 and 2015, on the basis of a concession contract or annex or in the case of water licences based on a decision. The introduction of a refund provides for inflows to the Water Fund for 2014 and 2015 totalling EUR 4 million for water use for drinking and EUR 4.4 million for bathing, heating, etc. The law also provides for equal treatment of water users in 2014 and 2015 during this period in terms of payments for water use. The law also ensures the implementation of the Government's measure to reduce the costs for the functioning of municipalities in the area of the collection of building rights fees. The proposed amendments to the law provide a legal basis for the exemption from the Real Estate Act of the State and the local communities of building rights on water and coastal land and other treatment of these land. The methodology for determining compensation for building rights and other management of water and coastal land in the management of the Ministry will be laid down by a regulation providing that the amount of compensation for construction of local infrastructure facilities and municipal connections to public infrastructure directly linked to water and coastal space will be set at a symbolic rate of 5 % of the amount of other compensation for building rights on those land. The law also provides a legal basis for carrying out all activities at the time of the increased level of risk or after the end of the intervention. With regard to intervention in the event of water damage, the law in force provides for only a few basic provisions on water protection and provides for the adoption of a directive setting out concrete intervention measures, the modalities for their implementation and the functioning of the public service adopted by the Minister responsible for the environment and the Minister for Defence. Everything else is left to the regime under the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. Intervention under the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents shall be initiated on the basis of an order and concluded by a decision. The problem is that water interventions are not yet completed when intervention under the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents is completed. Not in the Water Act, but in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, the period following the completion of the intervention and the prevention of recovery is not regulated. The proposed amendment of the law thus regulates the period following the completion of the intervention and before the recovery. Following a meeting of the committee, the draft law was subsequently coalition and intersectorally coordinated. As a result of the coordination, amendments have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly. For all of this, the SMC Group will support the Law on Water Amendments and Amendments of Coalition Groups on amendments and amendments to the Water Act. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to the third article under point 1 and the SDS Group Amendment to Article 3(2) are substantively linked to the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 14, with the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 17, and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17, we will discuss all amendments to these articles together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 3, 14 and 17 and the three amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD Group and the three amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for saying so. First of all, it's about the bill. I will support this law, which means a step forward towards the reorganisation of water management. Every year we witness, in fact every year, every fall, maybe even spring, floods, and every time we wonder where this water management has actually ended in such a way that the rivers are constantly flooding again and again. People wonder why the watercourses are out of order, why we're getting more and more wet. Television broadcasts are invited representatives of various institutions and many are asked who is actually responsible for water management. Journalists like to invite two or three representatives of different institutions to avoid confusion, and with this reorganisation, we will narrow this circle of people responsible for water management for preventive action against floods to the Water Directorate not least. What is important in this is that this Directorate for Water, which will be the body of the Ministry of Environment and Space, means that we will also have somehow politically responsible persons as regards the water management situation. When the floods occur, when we find that the watercourses are out of order, we can knock on the Ministry's door and at least knock on their sleeves and ask, "What have you done in this area and in this area?" So far, this has not been possible because everyone has claimed responsibility and we are actually witnessing a situation that I described a little earlier, so we are facing floods virtually several times a year. The law provides for the establishment of a Water Directorate, which will somehow be responsible for its work through the Minister. Of course, this body is going to do a lot of work in the future. However, since the adoption process of this law has come to a great deal of attention with regard to adopting it too quickly, it is precisely in relation to these events that are taking place, every autumn and spring in Slovenia, that we do not have time to approach water management gradually in a long and slow way. We're in a big hurry. I'm sure there are some unforeseen events waiting for us this fall. The Water Bill also contains a provision governing landowners' rights in water protection areas, namely, according to the initial proposal of the law, compensation should be paid to such owners instead of the so-called state aid. During the course of the procedure, it was found that the extent of these compensations was not known, which led to the coalition's view that this could not be regulated once in a while, not even in the absence of all data. For this reason, we will also support this amendment of coalition groups to delete Article 3 and remain Article 79, which regulates compensation for landowners in water protection areas in order to maintain the system so far. As regards other concerns relating to the proposal for a law, the circumstances regarding the recruitment of workers from the Institute of Water for the Future Water Directorate have also been raised. In this regard, in the Group of Members, we have taken the view that the Water Act is not one that should very carefully define the transition of individual workers from the Water Institute to the future Water Directive. In this regard, we have a wide range of labour legislation as well as judicial practice. The Water Act, however, should be the one to give the Ministry the basis for individual workers to take over. I believe that once these workers are taken over by the Ministry, it will be necessary to ensure that these workers are not harmed in any way by their rights under labour law and judicial practice. As has already been said, this law in this part, which is in Article 16, does not restrict in any way the rights they have under the rest of the labour legislation, so it gives only the basis that the Ministry of the Environment will be able to carry out those procedures which it must be possible for workers to move to a new job, so that I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u37	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u38	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! Today we're talking about natural resources, water. This is one of the rare resources that we have in Slovenia beside forests, and of course I will fully support this law and amendments that touch on these pressing issues. Let me remind you of some of the auditoriums that are happening to our natural resources. The water is leaking, almost never used again, instead of building some hydroelectric power plants and imprisoning water resources, setting up hills. On the other hand, there has been additional damage and, of course, the appetites of foreigners have been showing up recently to take over our water resources in one way or another. Of course, we are no different from another natural resource, these are forests that we do not deal with today. These products of our forest also flow abroad unexploited and unprocessed. I can say that we have dealt with the waters in an irrational, carefree manner so far, and that this resort has somehow been organisationally intertwined in various ministries, and finally the Ministry of Environment and Space, following the Government's conclusion, decided to resolve the systemic issue and somehow manage our natural resources so that we can draw more for our country and all our citizens. As I have already mentioned, there are water catches that cause us additional damage that we must then repair, and that is what we pay taxpayers. Of course, one of the reasons for such a situation is the lack of water management. With this new law, the Ministry systematically addressed these issues, since we have so far resolved these issues at various institutions, established various inter-ministerial commissions and agencies, which have not worked at the end stage as they should. It has recently circulated via e-mail that we have 250 inter-resort coordination commissions in Slovenia, rather than systematically solving matters as in the case that these functions will somehow be taken over by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. This is, as I have already mentioned, the transfer of competences from the institute and other water-related institutions into a directive that will be able to carry out these tasks fully under the roof of the Ministry of Environment and Space and ensure that water does not cause such damage, and also that water is managed rationally and concessions are also regulated. As far as the merger of these management tasks is concerned, I fully support this as well as the amendments that are linked to this. I think that this is a step in the right direction to take advantage of water resources for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Of course, the law also touches on the construction of concessions. Even as I have already mentioned, there are also great appetites for foreigners to take over, but I think that we have also taken a step in this law and extended the transitional period, so that, in my opinion, the amounts for these concessions will still be settled back. Let me clear my mind. I fully support the law and the amendments. I want this to become a similar practice of sectoral resolution to other ministries, and our natural resources would be managed in favour of the country of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u39	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, again. Good-bye, everyone. We have in our consideration Article 3 and all the amendments that are related to this article, but as I have found, my forerunners also speak of the law as a whole and I will also make one such mental review of the matter in this area. I hope that we all agree that no matter what kind of law we adopt and how many amendments to this Water Act we will adopt in this National Assembly, we have done nothing about it unless we are proactive in any other act that we will adopt in this State Assembly in the future. I'm talking about accepting a bill. We can accept, I don't know what amendments to the law, if we don't provide funds for these jobs, we're just throwing sand in our eyes. It is important to be aware that water service or water protection service, or whatever we call it, has been well regulated in those past times, and if we go from Austria-Hungarian to Austria, most of the water facilities on our watercourses, at least in the upper part, which are important for ensuring flood safety, come from those very historical periods. We can say that even in the former Yugoslavia, water communities have maintained these facilities quite well, so there was probably a larger flood, but of course it also helped to make the landscape much more orderly and that there were no trees in the watercourses and congestion of individual watercourses and similar. There's been a strange period with some new country. Since there were not enough resources to cover the legal regulation that existed, legislation in this area has changed with each new mandate, mainly in this respect, so that funds intended to regulate watercourses and, above all, prevention can be cut. This has become more and more vengeful in recent times. In the past, watercourses have actually been linked to one operator. The individual watercourse had responsible persons who cared practically from the source to the outflow of this watercourse for maintenance and also responsible for potential damage. Later this changed, concessions were awarded which are not even formally granted at this time. That's what the Ministry knows. In the past, quite a few good services that cared for the quality of water supply management have been destroyed. We are talking about Pooh as one of the companies with knowledge, but above all, she had history on individual watercourses, which is important for some maintenance. In the future, if we have any reorganisation, which I myself have said is the position of the Group of Members, we do not oppose it, we are aware that certain things need to be rationalised, but, as I have already mentioned, such steps should be followed by a normal procedure, not by these rapid, reduced procedures and excuse ourselves to avoid any natural disaster. I think it's a delusion. In this particular case, it appears that despite the fact that it was quite boisterous on the committee, it was useful for at least one piece of this legislation to be rectified so that we do not go on the nose to work problems where they do not need to be. I am talking about the deletion of Article 3 that we have proposed, later taken over by the coalition, which we consider to be positive, and this article and all related articles will also be supported by us. The fact is that this article would mean different accounting for water in areas where individual concessionaires should also be concerned about paying compensation for agricultural activities for those areas that are burdened by restrictions on agricultural use or should provide replacement land. In this case, this cost would be passed on to customers, and this would be to citizens who would be in different situations. This law also refers to the reorganisation of an individual source or the abolition of the Water Institute. We can say that this is some step in the right direction, but this is a systemic change, and it would be right to follow some normal procedure. I don't know if this is going to make a lot of difference, because it always depends on people and, above all, on the responsibility that we require of those who deal with a particular resource, so that it can be a step towards some improvement in this operational one. However, if we know that there are many permits that are linked to the issue of the possibility of building largely small hydropower plants in this area, I do not know if this will solve this problem. Above all, it would be important for the Ministry to be given greater powers at this level to individual expositions and to require responsibility from them. I think this would significantly improve the operationalization of this area of water protection. The second article of this Law speaks of coastal and water lands. Here we welcome the solution drawn up by the Ministry with a rule that also respects the commitment and agreement given by the Ministry to all local communities in the adoption of Zujf for municipalities, where there was a talk that coastal and water lands in cases where public infrastructure is being built are not burdened in the same way, but at a level of 5% of the usual calculated value for these compensations. So we must welcome this here and commend the ministry for having made the right decision and acted quickly. As already stated, the third article is deleted. This amendment to the arrangements for replacement land and compensation. Here I must make it clear that we do not object to agricultural land being treated in such a way that, where they have limited use, substituted land is clearly provided or compensated, but this arrangement, which has been proposed, has in fact constituted a different treatment for individual economic operators and citizens in these water protection areas, and this could be a major problem further. We also welcome the introduction of Article 4, which in some way saves the legal void between intervention and rehabilitation. This has often proved to be a major obstacle in the past, as individuals responsible, in the recitals, have always referred to the fact that they do not have a legal basis for reacting to each segment. So this is a positive solution in this law. As I said, I hope that all Members understand that these changes must be implemented in this legislation. However, I propose that we come up with such solutions in the future after some normal procedure, not after these cuts, because this causes a lot of amendments and bad will and eventually unconstant solutions. On the other hand, I hope that you are all aware that, regardless of the additions to the Water Act, the key issue ahead of us is when we confirm the budget and allocate sufficient resources to this department to prevent it. All of this has been pointed out several times in the past, but some position in this country was primarily in the direction of remedying things rather than taking preventive action. I hope that this philosophy has only slowly passed and that in the future it will be a little more focused on the prevention of watercourses and thus definitely reducing the consequences of floods and other natural disasters.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u41	The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As I have already said in my presentation on the position of the SMC Group, the proposal for a law following the last meeting of the committee was still a coalition and inter-resort coordination and the amendment to Article 3 is the result of this coordination. What are the substantive reasons for this amendment? The first is, of course, the one which also stems from the explanation for this amendment, which refers to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly concerning the system governing State aid for compensation. The government has decided in its interdepartmental coordination to notify the amended provisions of the law for the sake of legal certainty to the European Commission, and until then we propose that this article be excluded from the consideration of the bill. At the same time, it committed itself to coming forward without delay after harmonising the text and after obtaining the opinion of the European Commission to prepare a new proposal for the amendment of the law and to submit it to the National Assembly for adoption, so that the issue could be addressed in 2016 outside the system of state aid granted. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the opinion of the two ministries in this inter-departmental coalition coordination. The first is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which states that in the case of compensation or compensation to farmers, state aid would not be present in the following two cases: If compensation or compensation were not financed from public funds, therefore, in the case of financing from the price of water, the State should not prescribe the purpose of the use of the funds, or if the State were liable to compensation for the damage suffered by farmers due to the introduction of water protection areas. The Ministry of Environment and Space has given an opinion on the first condition that the proposed Article 3 actually sets out the purpose of the use of resources, namely State aid, and on the second condition that the assessment of whether the State is liable for damages is virtually impossible to say that the regulation of the water protection regime is indeed a State compensation measure, since there is no unlawful conduct that would render the State liable for compensation. Perhaps later in the discussion, the Government will be able to explain these substantive reasons more precisely. In addition to the two conditions set out by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance adds that it has concerns about compensation liability due to the following two facts. In the Guidelines on State aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors, the European Commission has taken the view that compensation for damage caused by restrictions related to the Water Directive constitutes State aid. The second point is that, in line with the practice of the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the burden of amending legislation is one of the usual costs to be borne by companies. Notwithstanding this content, the position of the Ministry of Environment and Space relating to other substantive reasons is also interesting in the inter-departmental coordination for the reasons for the amendment of Article 3. Among them, let me mention just a few. A problem is the amount of compensation which would now no longer be determined, so if the article remained in force. In the absence of professional rules for the assessment of injury, it is thus impossible to predict or assess the amount of the compensation proposed and the type of crop that would result in the loss of income. Therefore, it would make sense — and this position in the Ministry of Environment and Space, of course, we support — to draw up certain professional recommendations at the professional level on the basis of which the taxpayer could calculate the amount of compensation and the beneficiary of the compensation could prove any greater damage only later in court. In addition, long-term solutions should be sought primarily in addressing the problem of farming in the water protection area. One of the ideas that also arose in the debate on the Committee was organic farming, and the payment of compensation or compensation should in fact be an extreme measure. At the same time, alternative agricultural land should be made available as a priority. This also raises the question whether the Agricultural Land Fund or other owners of agricultural land have a sufficiently large agricultural land fund that could be replaced. Furthermore, the existing Article 3 proposal also covered two new measures for which compensation was to be paid, namely a reduction in the value of agricultural land and a reduction in the value of agricultural holdings. Even for these two new measures, it is not possible to estimate roughly what their height would be and what this damage would involve. Furthermore, in the new proposal for amendments to the Act, it should be added that the beneficiary is obliged to amend all information relevant to the determination of compensation within a certain period of time, we imagine that this could be a period of 30 days from the date of the amendment, that the beneficiary is not entitled to any other compensation, subsidy, compensation or aid for the same or similar measure provided for in the second title, and that there is a certain period of time, the transitional provisions should set a time limit for the first submission of the request by the beneficiary or the transmission of the contract by the debtor. Amendment to 14. And Article 17 is in fact linked to the amendment to Article 3. The text of Article 14 remains the same as proposed in the basic text of the law, as proposed by the amendment. Article 17 is deleted because it provides for a transitional provision to Article 3. All the amendments mentioned above will be supported, as already stated in the presentation of the position. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u43	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I myself would like to speak a few words about the amendment of this Water Act. I would also like to discuss Article 3 on amending the law in its entirety. Water management is a very problematic issue. Every year, at least in the spring and autumn, we meet in our country with great floods, which also bring great damage to ourselves, causing great harm to people who flood their possessions, their dwellings, and so on. We always wonder who is responsible for causing such damage, for such trials, and for who has not done what he should not have done to cause such great floods. This Law on Water Amendments now answers this question because a special body within the Ministry of Environment and Space is being established, namely the Water Directorate. As Mr Zorčič has already pointed out, this Directorate will be the body responsible for this if there are no emergency interventions in the watercourses and other waters that will prevent this huge damage, and it will be the body to which we will be able to address the requirements for action. With regard to Article 3, which deals with damage or compensation to farmers for damage in areas that are protected by water, we have found that these provisions are not precisely written down and that there are still some dilemmas regarding the identification and payment of these compensations or the provision of substitute land, so the amendment is to delete this Article. We support the deletion of this Article by ourselves and by the Desus Group. It would also touch on this transition of workers from the Institute of Water as it is being established, as I have already said, by the Directorate for Water within the Ministry of the Environment and Space, the amendments to the law provide for the transition of some workers from this institute to this direction. There have been many debates here, many contradictions mainly by the Institute and these workers. Trade unions also participated in the Committee on Infrastructure and Space when we discussed this amendment of the law and pointed out that this is not a legal transfer and that workers will be harmed. Ms Mojca Ramšak Pesec, Director-General of the Public Sector at the Ministry of Public Administration, presented the position on how these workers are being transferred. She also said that such an example had already been that it had already been carried out at their Directorate, that there was also a case law in this area and that, even if these workers were transferred from the Water Institute to the Ministry, they would be carried out in accordance with positive legislation, so that the rights of workers moving to the new job would not be violated. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be done, so I don't have a dilemma not to support this law. As I have already announced in the position of the Desus Group, the law will also be supported by all my fellow Members from the parliamentary group. We will also support the amendments to Articles 3, 13, 14 and 17 of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u45	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that the Water Act is a demanding, professional area which in practice does not function well. Therefore, such a law should by no means be adopted by means of a reduced procedure. I also support the creation of a water directorate within the Ministry itself, as there are significant shortcomings in practice, both through the issuance of various consents to new constructions, and the issue of where concessions in the field of the production of beverages and thermal baths in the past are due to failure and delays in granting concessions for small hydropower plants. In short, the system does not work best in practice. On the other hand, at the Institute of Water, we have a large professional capacity with 78 employees, which I think we should give more than our own in this area and expertise. I do not blame them because I do not know all their work, but I believe that in the new reorganisation, which will be in the area of the Water Directorate, this expertise will be used better than it has been before. If I go to the articles themselves, the amendments, Article 3, where the SDS Group has proposed that it be liable to pay compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities, the Ministry responsible for agriculture will explain the following. If I look at the bill itself, it states that it is also possible to obtain replacement land provided by water operators who have ceased their status as natural public goods and by operators with state-owned coastal land, but we have not received a clear answer on the Committee itself, but how many of these available land is available to offer them in exchange. We didn't get that information on the board itself. What has already been said today is that the extreme provision should be the payment of compensation. I also absolutely agree with this because I believe that the Fund of Agricultural Lands in the Republic of Slovenia has sufficient land and that all owners of agricultural water protection areas should be adequately replaced with state-owned land. This would absolutely avoid the payment of all compensations. So here it is necessary to look primarily at rationality and these solutions are possible and quite simple. In general, however, the law brings good solutions, so that I also support the law in this segment. However, the law is a living matter and, sooner or later, an even more professional approach will have to be made to the finalisation of this law, which in practice will also lead to a real and good life.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u47	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister, Mr Director-General of the Directorate for Water and Investment, welcome! We're talking about an extremely important content. Water or Slovenian waters are our extraordinary wealth, our extraordinary potential. Not only energy, we also talk about water as a barrier to life and health, which it really is. We are well aware of this, especially those who do not actually have safe drinking water by this time. I'm talking about the majority in the vast part of the statistical region of Pomurje. But thank God, we are practically just before the completion of the biggest cohesion project in the country, this is the water supply of Pomurje, when more than 120 thousand people will receive clean, healthy drinking water. The country will be richer by 150 million euros – 150 million euros, this is nothing compared to people actually getting healthy drinking water. I would also like to thank the Government or the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the great efforts that have to be made to make the actual project 10 years after the signed letter of intent by the Mayors – in 2012 it started and this year, if everything is lucky, it will also be completed or completed. If I may say a few more general thoughts. Water or rivers are also linked by countries and people. What am I getting at? I am aiming for the first macro-region strategy within the European Union, the Danube macro-region. Donava is the one that connects as many as 14 countries, of which 9 are members of the European Union. So it's all over the water. The Danube River does not run through Slovenia, but rivers are flowing into the Danube River. It is a macro-region, a political association, an economic association, but it is also, of course, that we are talking a lot about cross-border water management in this macro-region, "cross border water management". We discussed this a lot at the two interparliamentary conferences of the Danube region. The first one was in Ulm last year, the second in Budapest last year, where the President of the National Assembly also had a report and this year this conference was held in Belgrade. In this context, I also welcome the e-invoice portal and I call on you, Madam Minister, to develop this portal as much as possible in the budget as possible. I think it is very important that we have virtually all the information that citizens need on one common portal. Citizens as ordinary citizens, citizens as investors, as consumers, as farmers and so on, as designers. I think it's very important. Of course, I also expect this portal to be part of this cross-border water management. I would like to remind you that in Slovenia we have developed a portal for macro-regions, the address is eRegion.eu. I think it would be good if we could find a link on this portal to the e-water portal, if it hasn't already been done. Of course I salute the law. It is a relatively small change, but useful and urgent, especially urgent. However, I would like to say very briefly something about the solution to agricultural land in water protection areas. There, in fact, these agricultural land is not to the full extent agricultural, since practically farmers, owners there must not use mineral fertilisers and plant protection products. Madam Minister, as a member of the Government, I am putting my heart at your disposal to try to solve these problems in the next direction. The municipalities are simply not able to pay compensation, since we talked a lot yesterday about averages that are practically lower each year. So don't put this problem in the congregation, please. However, it would be good if the Agricultural Land Fund might buy out these agricultural land in water protection areas and provide the farmer with agricultural land at another location. However, this agricultural land within water protection areas could be leased for organic production and the matter resolved. I think that this could be resolved within the Government and I think that this would also be very well accepted among Slovenian farmers. It is true that it is somehow expected to be solved by the congregations, but the congregations simply cannot do so. We have the Fund for Agricultural Lands, which should do something in this context. And that's a very simple solution. I don't think it's any fun fun, and probably only one government decision would be needed. I'd make this very simple, and the solution is in the palm of my hand. I support the amendment to Article 3, which requires that article be deleted. In fact, the amendment to Article 79 is annulled. When we talked a lot yesterday about municipalities, about the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, these associations, all of us colleagues and colleagues, sent us a letter a while ago, quoting: "The communities strongly oppose the changes in the 79th Section of the Water Act, which refers to compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities in water protection areas. The proposal for amendments is aimed at individual conclusion of payment contracts for the reduction of income from agricultural activities, thus undermining the system of charging and pricing of the public service for drinking water supply, in particular, intervention and breakdown of the way in which the network is charged, including compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities." Well, thank God with this amendment to Article 3 we are somehow going on hand with these representative associations of municipalities. As far as I'm concerned, this amendment to Article 3 will also be supported. I also now think that the implementation of this law will make it easier to reach a concession. I know the case in Prekmurje, Gorički, where the full role was given at the end of 2008. This Prekmurec even had an investor, a doctor from Israel, who even realized that there was water there that cures cancer. However, until today nothing has happened, until today he has not been granted permission to pump and charge, so no concession has been obtained. No, I don't know, there's the last officer, so he said, he told him that there's just no price left and that's why he can't get a permit, he can't get a contract and so on. I hope that this marriage will somehow resolve itself, too, because it's really insane if someone has an investor to wait 7-8 years to get the papers, as they say. And there, among other things, as this investor assures us, he could employ up to 12 people. I welcome these amendments and amendments and will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u49	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Because I've got quite a bit of time, I'm gonna go nice and slow. First of all, I cannot help but respond to what the debater was discussing before me. Of course, we welcome the fact that parts of Slovenia, which do not yet have safe drinking water, are given this undeniable drinking water. But, for the first time, how do we know that it is impeccable if we cut out the funds for monitoring in the budget, and for the second thing, we have to be aware that this integrity is not eternal, it can be integrity from today on the morning and so on. As a creature, mostly made up of water, I will not go into this populism thing that you two have said before about how important water is. No one here talks about climate change as if it doesn't happen somehow. If I touch the amendments themselves and the law itself, we have another similar debate like we had yesterday. On the one hand, we have a coalition that says we're doing something, we're doing something, we're saving something, it's great. On the other hand, we have an opposition that is more or less critical, resulting from more or less knowledge in this criticism. But this is, after all, normal, it is also the opposition's parliamentary task, and it is high time to get used to it. What is the problem with this marriage? This is a major change after 13 years. When it comes to these major changes, when the whole professional public and the good part of other stakeholders in particular in the local community are brought up when this law is drafted, when it is somehow not known who this law is written, when it is followed by some accelerated procedures, now the Rules of Procedure could be reopened and read, when appropriate, this is too much, since in fact the Coalition and the Government are also in breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is pointed out by the Government's legal service, which I read on the Committee, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, one gets some uneasy feeling. My colleague Daniel explained that this is a matter that has a beard, a tradition that makes sense. On the good 20,000 square kilometres of Slovenia we have a circus of 26 thousand kilometers of water-basin system and we also have some so-called hidden knowledge, a tradition that has been loaded for centuries. We can go look at the Idris. We can go look at something else. Especially based on the importance of this, if you want, the geomorphology of Slovenia, is such a way of adopting this legislation mildly – Mr Cerar often thinks I am rude – rude. I can't say anything more than that. As we have already said on the committee, there is probably no problem that this is an activity that needs to be seriously regulated. Member Ranc used the word "systemic" seven times, eight times. The way you did it, it's not like that. You've forgotten about the good part of the profession or you haven't contacted it. You're throwing people away from the only institute that's dealing with this, you want to turn them into officials, which is mildly said to be very sad. Why? Because especially SMC is made up of some people who, like me, have come from the academic research sphere who already know that we're becoming more and more bureaucrats because we're meeting more and more forms, and now you're going to systematically transfer these people to the bureaucrats. Here I'm surprised by the rather vehement thought of my colleague Krivec, who said, "The abolition of the Institute, a step in the right direction." I wouldn't have hoped to say something so vehemently. There's been a lot of talk here about substitutable agricultural land. On the committee, which opposition Members have already pointed out in particular, we have not received any response in this regard. I can agree with the New Slovenia Member that the municipalities have neither the staff nor the financial resources to do such things. I'm a little skeptical of his proposal for these exchanges to take place on these shores, if I may say so, to this extent in organic farming. We could talk long and wide about concessions and concessionaires, where there are many, because this is not some basic activity, serenity, mildly said, unusually and harmfully leading to the environment. We can talk about how Isko was cut in the face with Ljubljanica, I can talk about how they drenched the frozen caves, the Soviet trout and so on. In short, it seems to me that some key problem of this law is to rush where there should be no rush to mix something that should be arranged accelerated, this is in particular the area of concessions. We have a strange situation, and certain legal entities that used water wells in the economy and actually calculated concession fees and some other entities that are still waiting. In fact, I'm surprised someone hasn't gone to sue the state, because it's in some way an unacceptable distinction. In fact, you don't have to be too much of a lawyer to find out that it's also some kind of illegal state aid. If I somehow go to the amendments themselves now, we have a situation where both the executive branch and the coalition turn on the opinions of the legislative and legal services, both the government services and our national councils. A fine example is Article 13, where I will read the Law-Legal Service very clearly: "The provision of the Article deviates from the principle of an integrated budget. The Water Fund is a budget fund and cannot be earmarked for the financing of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry, since the Authority is an independent budgetary user. In the composition of the body, there will be civil servants and not public service providers who are concessionaires. The provision is contrary to the rules on budgetary spending. Such a provision also jeopardises the functioning of the body in the composition, as funds in the water fund are gradually acquired." Once again, I'm starting to get on my own that I always have to say this, some coalition with a very strong legal lobby that kind of excites on these basic issues, not to say that the water fund is obviously quite overloaded, because in the Ministry you know well, by financing the construction of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava. Now I'm going to touch our amendments so I won't answer again. In this light, we support this article, the amendment proposed by the opposition, which in fact removes this unacceptable fabrication of the coalition. Our amendment shall be referred to Article 16, paragraph 1, paragraph 2 and paragraph 3. In fact, it deals with this reorganisation of water management, which you want to do so quickly, and in doing so you have a convenient excuse of catch in recent times, although the profession very strongly warns and is quite uniform here that we have to deal with prevention more. In short, the traps that happened, the accident. I come from this area, which is also connected, which the New Slovenia MEP once again warned about, with some international cooperation, according to local words, the Austrians begin to water their towns and open their prisons and flood us with Duplek. This is also the dimension of this area. But if I go to our amendments, somehow we propose a first amendment to extend the deadline from 1 January 2016 to 2018, to reconsider whether it is actually the right approach to reorganisation and, in fact, to virtually abolish the Institute of Water. This gives the Institute time to reorganise, as well as time to look for some new sources of funding, and also time for in-depth discussion and coordination among stakeholders. However, the amendment to the third paragraph refers, of course, to some of the rights of the workers of the Institute of Water. I will not now mention a longer treaty on which all the laws of the European Directorate could be invoked. In this debate we received from Members and Members of the Coalition, in particular Desus, part SD, somehow, "Yes, they promised us that there will be no problems." The National Assembly is not some body that lives on promises. We are the legislative body, the legislative branch of the authorities, which must, in accordance with the rule of law, take care of matters arising from the declarations we make in their legal order. You know, I can't buy this as a Member, "Yeah, they promised me this..." I've been promised a lot in my life, but I'm not going to explain my personal biography here right now. Once again, I find it extremely unacceptable that we have a full mouth of knowledge society. After all, here, I could return to my golden slag of darkness, a strategy of smart specialization, but in this society we will be able to learn scientists from an area that is crucial to a country that is, in its own words, so watery, which many of us envy, roar and turn into some bureaucrats. In drafting legislation, we will not actually include them in the drafting of this legislation. Let us leave aside, of course I am a sociologist, there are different interests, including partial ones, it is difficult to coordinate so many stakeholders, so many actors. It is true that, as I quote, the Minister has fallen into the water, but if we want to systematically solve such things, all people with knowledge of this area, people who are somehow affected by this, local communities with interests here, farmers with full mouth, and self-sustainment on the side of the SD to a feudalized area splits in seven, eight years. Not to mention how much less they will operate or grow according to eco-principles this year. It's just an area that's a school case, an ideal typical case. That is also why it is possible for us — because we have come from the water, if you believe in evolution, I believe — all of this is hindered by the need to open it up systematically, to think things over, after a dozen years or more, and to respond to it. This change in legislation and the way you drive it, the way that you whistle on many stakeholders, the way that you, after all, get involved in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the one hand, shows your scale, on the other hand, that you do not want to go about these matters in the way you should. We have repeatedly warned you in essence from all the opposition parties, which is also our duty, not our nagging, which is our duty to make a mistake, to separate something that needs to be reformed, to be regulated, even in order to prevent this discrimination and in some way latent illegal state aid, to settle the issue of concessionism, to consider another law, to enter into the constitution of access to water and then to go into a systematic change through some more open debate of all stakeholders. Not that we have at the Ministry of the Environment and Space to essentially throw these changes in the public debate for a few days, you have a weekend in the middle of it, it drops on Friday, it's over, it's over on Wednesday a little "mail" on Thursday you give to the government. There are probably articles in the Codex of Penalties that could be used to persecute you. As a result, there is no way in the United Left that we can support such work and amendment of this law. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u51	Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, her team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The current situation in the field of the implementation of water management tasks has been pointing to situations that have not been regulated for quite some time. It also shows inefficiency and inadequate water management. It is unacceptable that such a situation, as a result, poses a risk to people's lives as well as damage to property. This was also clearly demonstrated in last year 2014 in the floods we witnessed, where it was clear in some parts that the system does not work as it should, and also does not allow for integrated water management in Slovenia, so that we take advantage of the water potential that is available to us, as our great development potential and also a great opportunity. The service in this area should provide the conditions for the effective performance of the public service, the implementation of investments and cooperation with the professional as well as with other stakeholders. The system must ensure adequate organisation and adequate human resources coverage both at national, regional and local level. For the purpose of establishing the Slovenian Directorate of Water as a stand-alone budget consumer, which is expected to start operating with 1. 1. 2016, I believe that the time is enough, despite some concerns in the debates on the Committee that we have witnessed when it comes to this transition to a new organisation. Saying that this is too short a time frame for this transition, I don't think it has the right basis, because I come from an entrepreneurial point of view if it takes a year or two in entrepreneurship, then I don't know how we can adapt to entrepreneurship because entrepreneurship is practically subject to different changes every day, and you don't want to adapt or you won't. In the few months ahead of us, this reorganisation can take place. I am also convinced that the fear is completely exaggerated by the employees, in particular by the Institute itself, because the transfer of rights and the respect of the Labour Relations Act is the duty of the employer to respect the obligations of workers as well as the rights of workers who are also subject to this transition in this new organisation. I support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Water Act after a reduced procedure, as well as the amendments tabled. I think it is high time that the final relationship, state and management of this part is regulated in order to implement comprehensive measures to reorganise the area of water management. Madam Minister, you have a lot of work to do, as well as Mr Vehin, and I wish you a great deal of success in this reorganisation, as well as a new set-up. As has been heard from previous debaters, this is one part. Things are connected, but I'm sure it's a step that was necessary. As we know, after so many years, there is a change to the law that is necessary, so it is also appropriate to shorten the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u53	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Articles 13 and 18. Since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13(1) is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 18, we will discuss all amendments to these articles together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 13 and 18 and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 16. So I am putting to the debate the amendment to Article 16 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the time frame of the meeting tomorrow, 15. Seven. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE WAR VETERINARY LEGISLATION The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. The bill is proposed at the 13th session of the 30th session. 6. 2015 treated the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the disabled as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, everyone. Thank you very much. We have before us a proposal for a law that has been amended twice in the last three years, and in the meantime two amendments have been unsuccessful. The content of the proposals is and also relates to the right to payment of the full value of health insurance to war veterans, i.e. to payment of additional health insurance. Of course, in this proposal for start-up, we cannot help but raise doubts about the sincere purposes of this proposal, because it is the SDS that is the author of the regulation they want to change today. In the spirit of a multitude of austerity measures, the drafter of the Act under consideration today with the Public Finance Balance Act in 2012 has weakened rights, including war veterans. However, the socially weak, those war veterans who have less than 497 euros in income, have maintained the right to payment to the full value of health services. The party Desus was also part of the then coalition, which sought to mitigate the financial crisis by reducing budgetary spending by tightening the belt for our citizens and citizens. Also, the Desus Group supported the legislative amendment of the government of Alenka Bratušek, which provided that the measure concerning the freezing of supplementary health insurance payments to all those war veterans who are not entitled to payment of additional health insurance after Zujf will be abolished as from 1 January of the year following the year in which 2,5 % of economic growth is officially established. In a situation similar to that of now some 60,000 war veterans, there are still some people who have been deprived or reduced of their rights through austerity measures. Among them are, for example, 610 thousand pensioners, 10 times more people than just war veterans, whose reconciliation of pensions is linked to the fulfilment of this same condition. Finally, the latter will be re-coordinated over a long period of time also when the conditions of 2.5% GDP growth, or even with a delay, are met, as although 2.6% growth is still found informally in 2014, coordination will only take place in the coming year. As far as the purpose of the bill is concerned, in the Desus Group, we wonder why the drafter is not returning the rights of all Zujf to war veterans. Zuyfa and his wife had also raised the age limit for veteran status, and medical and air - conditioning treatments had been discontinued. Finally, even among war veterans, let me say how such a sudden conversion of the SDS is possible and condemned by such a unconscious and shameless act. In the Desus Group, the decision to support this law's proposal was negative for the reasons stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u55	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u56	Madam Vice-President, colleague and colleague. We have before us a bill amending the War Veterans Act. In 2012, the Public Finance Balance Act disproportionately affected the right to health care for war veterans. Zujf abolished the legal basis for the exercise of the right to medical and climate treatment, increased the age for the exercise of rights under the War Veterans Act from 50 to 55 years of age, and further increased the conditions for war veterans to exercise the right to health care. He permanently abolished the only material right of war veterans, which is the payment of the supplementary health insurance premium. Before the adoption of Zujf, the right was guaranteed to all war veterans who had reached the age condition of the War Veterans Act. The right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium provided by the State budget remained unchanged under the terms of Zujf only for persons with the status of war invalid and for persons with the status of victim of war violence. The right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium from 1 January 2013 was granted to war veterans only selectively when the age condition and conditions for obtaining the veteran supplement were met. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we insist that the rights granted under the War Veterans Act constitute recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for the contribution given by the veterans of the war, the fighters of the NOB and members of the defence and security forces who participated in the liberation processes or the war for Slovenia in 1991 for the freedom and independence of Slovenia. When Zujf was adopted, they made great efforts to ensure that the provisions adopted in the law did not remain permanent. We believe that the receipts of war veterans and war victims must not and cannot be of a social nature and not constitute a payment, but rather a compensation for physical and mental injury, and mean a expression of gratitude. This is precisely why the then opposition MPs, with Matjaz Han, wanted to prevent the permanent withdrawal of those rights by the end of 2012 with the Zujf novel. The new law provided for a preliminary period in which these rights would be frozen in connection with economic growth. Unfortunately, all attempts to change Zuif failed. It was only in 2014 that the proposed solution passed the new Law on War Veterans, which re-examined rights, such as those before the adoption of Zujf, and bound them to a condition of economic growth, which would allow the payment of these rights to a greater extent and to realize the special constitutional protection of these beneficiaries. The novelty that we are referring to today and that has been put into the legislative process by the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, provided for a solution to ensure that war veterans receive health services in the amount of the difference to the full value of the services in the framework of compulsory health insurance as soon as possible and that the condition of 2.5% of economic growth is deleted. As stated in 2014 the adopted amendment provided for this right to be returned on 1 January of the year following the year for which the economic growth found will exceed 2,5 % of the gross domestic product. This is a dictatorship that is unified with other such measures adopted under the Public Finance Balance Act. As the Government points out in its opinion, the exercise of rights from public funds is, indeed, about different content and under different conditions, but measures to balance public finances apply equally to all beneficiaries. By removing the procrastination of economic growth, however, war veterans would be in a significantly more favourable position than other citizens, beneficiaries of a variety of types of rights from public funds, which would only be felt by the effects of favourable economic growth in 2016. In addition, if the SDS proposal were to be adopted, additional budget resources of 58 million would be needed for this purpose, but are not provided for in the 2015 budget. In view of the above, the majority have already assessed on the parent’s labour body that the amendment of the law cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u57	The text is given by the United Left Group, Mr Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. In the United Left, we object to the confiscation of legitimately acquired rights, which has even been exercised by the Government of Proponents of this Act in part unconstitutionally. In addition to the wrong policy of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, the current austerity measures have led to a second recession that could be avoided. The negative economic consequences of Zujf today are recognised even by the Ministry of Finance, otherwise they could have been anticipated and can not be justified for economic reasons. The law is proposed by the party that has seized the rights. The proposal only restores the rights of one of the groups affected. That is why this is a classic example of the cheap collection of political points. However, the law is before us and must be defined. We see no reason why we should not support the proposal. Indeed, veterans who exceed the price for a veteran supplement are not among Slovenia's most socially threatened inhabitants. Veteran censorship is almost twice the price for monetary social assistance, but this does not mean that the rights of veterans threaten the rights of the socially disadvantaged, as the Government stated in its explanatory statement: "With the removal of the deferred condition of economic growth, the war would in fact be more favourable than other citizens, beneficiaries of a variety of rights from public resources, who would have experienced the effects of favourable economic growth only in 2016." In view of these alleged inequalities, it should also be said that veterans were placed in an unequal position compared to the victims of war violence who in 2012 maintained the right to pay health services irrespective of income. Therefore, inequality cannot be an argument against, but to a greater extent an excuse is an excuse to play one social group against another. In this way, the real causes of their plight are concealed. With the same tactic, the government rejected the proposal to abolish the restriction on the succession of recipients of social assistance and protective allowances. It must therefore be made clear that the situation of the socially disadvantaged will not deteriorate with the return of rights to veterans. It's not the veterans who are responsible for their problem, it's the system we live in and the government that runs the anti-social policy. How else could we appoint a plan to abolish the fourth income class in the year of the worst strain? In 2016, the Stability Programme provides for a reduction of €664 million in expenditure in relation to 2014. At the same time, the government intends to introduce a tax relief for the 3 000 262 best paid people in Slovenia. The government's explanation should be read carefully. The government did not guarantee that social rights would be defrosted in 2016, but that they would "freeze themselves". This restraint is not random. If he thinks the government will reduce spending by 664 million, temporary measures will have to become permanent, perhaps not all, but that is exactly what Minister Maramor and Koprivnikar predicts. In the United Left, we do not agree to a policy that takes on the socially disadvantaged with one hand and gives it to the richest with the other hand. That's why we're going to support the marriage. In the medium term, however, we will be working towards different arrangements for health and social protection. We need public health insurance to cover the entire basket of rights. After we replace supplementary health insurance with solidarity public service, the problem of pay will be solved for all residents, not just veterans. Only this is a satisfactory solution: a decent life must be guaranteed to all people in Slovenia, regardless of their social status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u59	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of New Slovenia – we were under great pressure at the time of the adoption of the Law on Public Finance Balance. No one, we didn't want the Public Finance Balance Act either, but the only path we saw was necessary. The austerity measures that have been and are still inevitable to balance public finances are not simple, but we hope to look everyone in the eye and explain their urgency. The standard we used to practice until then was no longer possible. It's unendurable to spend more than to create. With sobriety and patience, that must be understandable. It was for patience that we also asked citizens and citizens. It's not easy, and we have everyone in mind when we decide on austerity measures. All this is because we are and will ensure a better and stable future for all, especially the generations that are coming. We are all aware that no one was satisfied with this law. There has been tremendous pressure on all parliamentary groups and on all Members. We've been getting a lot of letters, personal stories and stuff. I can say that even the New Slovenia Council has asked us Members to do something to ease the pressure on family policy. The veterans also paid and carried their share of the burden. But we all hope it won't be long. As it appears right now, they're supposed to be with 1. 1. 2016 refunded right to payment of health services in the amount of the difference to the full value of the services under the compulsory health insurance. The current Government is responsible for assessing at which point it can provide sufficient resources in the budget for this purpose. We did not object to the proposal for a law amending the Law on War veterans of New Slovenia on the home labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u61	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the debate on the proposal for a law amending the Law on War Veterans, there were many debates in the second reading by the Home Committee on the irrefutable merits of war veterans in the past and on the review of the amendments to the Law on War Veterans that have been tabled so far. These have sought to regulate the return of the right to payment of health services in the amount of the difference to the full value of the services provided under compulsory insurance, to all war veterans with effect from the adoption of novelties, and not from the government's decision of 2.5% economic growth. The latter was also cited as the main objective of the bill. The current regime guarantees the right to payment of health services in the amount of the difference to the full value of health insurance services only to war veterans receiving a veteran supplement. Such arrangements were laid down in 2012 by the Law on Public Finance Balance. However, the 2014 amendment of the War Veterans Act adopted an amendment setting the current regime as a temporary limitation until one year after economic growth reaches 2.5%. In this amendment to the 2014 War Veterans Act, it is necessary to know that such a condition for the return of rights applies to many other rights, which were also linked to economic growth with Zujf. Given the implications for public finances that would have been caused by the implementation of the bill, it would have been difficult to adopt such a law in the middle of the financial year, since a rebalancing for this year had already been adopted. We are also aware that, like many other marriage proposals, which are attractive to someone in a given economic situation and the current state of public finances, they must also give something to someone else. We therefore stress that we cannot weigh each other's social groups, assessing which ones to give to one of the other social groups that also needs help. Individual groups in need of assistance cannot and must not be placed in a competitive position. The removal of the conditions for economic growth found would, in our opinion, lead to a significantly better position than other beneficiaries to other rights from public resources, which would only have felt the effects of favourable economic growth at the beginning of 2016. We must also point out once again that, for reasons which we have already pointed out in the second reading at the meeting of the parent committee as decisive that we have rejected the proposal for a law, there is no way to view it as an assessment of the achievements of war veterans. The immeasurable achievements of these veterans throughout the history of Slovenia are an absolute and irrefutable fact, which has never been disputed or discussed in relation to the bill. In the SMC Group, we rejected the draft law for all of the above reasons, both for the financial consequences and for the equal treatment of all beneficiaries of public funds rights, at the meeting of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u63	The text is given by the SDS Group of Members, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! In the SDS we have proposed these amendments to the Law on War veterans in good faith that the National Assembly will realize that now, given the economic situation, it is time for all war veterans to make the most of their sacrifices for our country and that we are now living in the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia, we give the most thanks in some way. After 2008, the economic and financial situation in Slovenia deteriorated considerably. By the end of 2011 and February 2012, another Janša government had sworn in, the cuts were immediately made in all areas. There was a need to save, to consolidate public finances. Since we are not exclusive to anyone in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and because we did not want anyone to tell us, you took it away from us, you did not do so, we also decided to apply to certain rights of war veterans. As a result, we all took the supplement or supplementary health insurance paid to them by the State or those who were not entitled to the Veteran supplement. There were also great criticisms at our expense at that time, but we pledged that as soon as the economic situation in the state was more favourable, we would come up with a proposal for this matter to be returned to them. Today, if you look at what measures are praised abroad, which are praised by the OECD and what measures are being taken in Washington, the European Union and everywhere else by the Finance Minister Dusan Maramor, this is pension reform, labour market reform, the establishment of SDH, the establishment of a bad bank and the consolidation of public finances. This is the five measures taken by the then other Janša government, that we have not fallen further, that we have not had an even greater deficit, which would certainly have pushed Slovenia to the brink of today's Greece, where we are also witnessing that the radically left-wing party of Siriz, who promised me no candy before the elections, is now agreeing to a radical saving, because that is the only obvious solution. It is true that informal growth in Slovenia exceeded 2.5% in 2014. Later, the government of Alenka Bratušek passed the law to return to all war veterans the right to additional health insurance with 1. 1st year following the year when more than 2.5% of economic growth will be detected. However, it is necessary to wait for that official information. If it's not 1. 1. 2016, then it will turn out that this proposal was justified, and obviously we will have to repeat it then. It is not about being veterans of war because of this in a more favourable position than other citizens and citizens. We believe that those who were on the trenches at the time who exposed their lives still feel these and other consequences today, the country is obliged to pay them at least something to remember and appreciate their efforts at that time. We had to intervene at all levels within Zujf. However, when speaking about pensioners before, it is necessary to be honest and honest and say that Zuif did not take the euro away from pensioners who have less than €622 per month. So we made sure that the most socially threatened with Zyphus did not take them. But later, of course, the Constitutional Court returned some privileges to those when Zuyf also took unjustifiable privileges, high pensions, and so on. There will also be something else to be done in this area in our country. We regret that you have not accepted our proposal by the coalition MPs and Members. You can only hope that official economic growth will be somewhere in August, when it is known, indeed 2.5%, because it was discussed on the Committee as if it were already a fact. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will wait for these numbers and then we will decide how and what to do in these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u65	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure for the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the composition of agricultural land and to the lords of the Republic of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. The bill was tabled by 5,000 voters and voters. The Law’s Proposal Is at 9th Session, 1 / 1 Seven. 2015 treated the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The aim of the law's proponents was primarily to try to bring closer the interest of land users in decisions taken by the Council as a management body. While we welcome in the Group of Social Democrats the solution that would go this way so that representatives can also be appointed to the bodies of the Fund to protect the interest of the tenants, of course there must not be any representative in the world of the fund that could be the lessee himself and thus come to a conflict of interest. Unfortunately, this law interferes with the composition of the Council of the Funds at a time when it is in the middle of its mandate, and such a change could be unconstitutional. That is why we cannot support this change. At the same time, however, it should be pointed out that there has also been a broad debate on the importance of the management of state agricultural land and also of forests on this occasion, and how important it is that the Fund takes account of both the economic and social aspects of this management. This is not the last thing the Constitution imposes in its 67th Article. However, in all the history of the Fund since 1993, we are constantly faced with the importance of taking into account the economic interest and the social interest. In the last period, however, it has to be recognised that the bidding process for the conclusion of the lease has raised rents by 4.2 times from previous leases, which means that the economic category is taken into account in particular, and not the social moment of the buyer, when it has to manage or manage these land effectively, to earn sufficient resources both for himself and for technology and for all that it takes to grow something good on this land. It is true, however, that the Fund plays its social role in cases of extreme natural disasters. For example, because of the drought in 2013, the fund will write down as much as €421,000. So in a state of emergency, this is still the case. But surely in the future, if users' representatives were to be in the holy funds, this dialogue between the economic category and the social category would be significantly more balanced, so we believe that in the future we should re-establish a different composition of the world, of course in a manner consistent with the Constitution. In doing so, it should be stressed that the Fund has returned all the land in the denationalisation process in its history of operation. In nature, such denationalisation under the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests has been completed. It is not completed with regard to financial obligations, as in addition to the return of property in Slovenia in the process of denationalisation in nature, beneficiaries of course also claim compensation for the non-use of these land, in particular during the period when the land was not returned to them from the establishment of the Fund itself. This brings very high financial obligations to the fund, and it would be right to consider in the future, because it has returned all the land to relieve the Fund of paying 10% of its contribution to the Slovenian Compensation Fund, which is intended to settle the commitments of denationalising beneficiaries also from other titles. The Fund is indeed intended to manage only agricultural land and forests in the future, but not to settle denationalisation compensations, which would certainly improve the operation of the Fund as well as the attitude towards the tenants themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u67	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Agricultural land, especially forests, which are one of our most important natural resources, must be treated with discretion and sustainability, especially for the country. By amending the law proposed by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, representatives of users or leasers of agricultural land, farms and forests and a representative of employees would, inter alia, return to the Council of the Fund. In the United Left Group, we believe that a conflict of interest could arise with the return of landowners to the world of the Fund, and we therefore oppose this. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber has its representatives in some other public institutions, in the Agricultural Institute or in the Institute for Agriculture and Brewery. But here they are as representatives of the profession and not as representatives of business partners, if I may put it that way. This solution does not seem acceptable to us, but we support the issue of representatives of employees in the Fund's world. If we take as a comparable arrangement the representation of workers in supervisory boards of companies as provided for in Article 79 of the Law on the participation of workers in management, the representation of workers in supervisory boards should be from one third to one half of the representatives. Although we do not have a comparable law regulating the representation of workers in sacred institutions, it seems important to us that they are also in these holy representatives of workers. However, we believe that this must be resolved through a system-wide law that will introduce workers' representatives into all state funds. However, as regards the second proposed amendment that would impose the Fund on the introduction of the general principle of mandatory order between equivalent priority beneficiaries, I must point out that the land policy, which, in the course of the sale and leasing of agricultural land, forests and farms, acts only and only in accordance with the principle of who gives more, is not in line with the strategic objective of Slovenian agriculture. In its opposition, the proposed amendment to the law referred to the development strategy of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, stating that the decisions of the Fund must be economically sound and that therefore a better system is one that gives more. In doing so, it must remain silent that this same Fund strategy also entails improving the land structure and consequently improving the agricultural structure and ensuring rational use and maintaining the environmental value of agricultural land. Therefore, the Fund must take into account other factors in its business. In the United Left Group, we agree to establish a mandatory regime of order between equivalent legal beneficiaries. However, we believe that the framework for the sale and lease of agricultural land should be more clearly regulated by law. This should give priority to co-organising farmers, strengthening food supply and promoting the construction of local food chains. In the United Left Group, we believe that the proposal for a law of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is going in the right direction, but that it is far too incomplete to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u69	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u70	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, with signatures of more than 5,000 citizens, has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for a law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The law, according to the motioners, brings three fundamental novelties. First, a change in the composition of the Council of the Funds and the manner in which the President of the Council is appointed. The Council would make up five new representatives of the founder, three representatives of users or tenants and one representative of workers. And all the members would be named Vlad. The representative of the founder would be proposed by the Ministry responsible for agriculture, representative of users of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and representative of workers. The president of the world would be elected by members of the world from among themselves. Secondly, it will be possible to classify equivalent candidates by introducing a general principle of order between equivalent candidates. Thirdly, the government's mandatory consent is also introduced for the sub-laws governing the lease. Proposalers estimate that the fund with the current organisational structure of the world cannot follow optimally the national interest and strategy set out in the agricultural and forestry documents, in particular in the Slovenian Agriculture Development Strategy and the Forest Development Programme in Slovenia. Christian Democrats and I agree with the proposaler that the Fund should implement Slovenian agricultural policy as a good land owner owned by the Republic of Slovenia, transport these lands and carry out other tasks, by law. The proposal for a novel, which unfortunately did not receive sufficient support from Members of Parliament on the labour market, would allow the fund to do so. Christian Democrats believe that this is another of the many missed opportunities for state institutions to approach farmers, and we expect that the competent ministry will soon offer alternative solutions that will pursue the same goals as this rejected novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u71	The word is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, for which Mr. Peter Wilfan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u72	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of 5 thousand electorates and voters submitted to the National Assembly the amendment of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Although it is a so-called people's initiative supported by voters' signatures, it is worth noting that it is a bill prepared by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and that voters or signatories are mostly its members. It is an attempt by the Chamber to remedy the solutions adopted by the amendment to this Act in 2010. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia proposes to change representation in the management bodies of the Fund, which owns state-owned assets. It is worth noting that the 2010 National Assembly eliminated the conflict of interest between the private interests of members of the Council when it stipulated in Article 5(1) that the President and members of the Council of the Fund may not be persons for whom there is a potential conflict between their private interests and the public interests pursued by the Fund. The possibility of a conflict referred to in the preceding sentence shall be considered if the member or chairman of the Board is a member of the fund of a tenant or a tenant of land in the management of the fund or a contractual contractor of the works in the forests with which the fund is managed. The proposed solution therefore seeks to legitimize the situation before 2010. According to our assessment of the novel, he is trying to legislate solutions that would allow the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia or its members to influence the management of state property, which is contrary to the interests of the fund's founder, i.e. the state. Such a composition of the world could therefore have an impact on the implementation of land policy if users or leasers of agricultural land, forests and farms from the fund currently exempt participate in the decision-making process. To this end, further proposed amendments also show that they introduce a mandatory order between equivalent priority beneficiaries, in order to follow the objectives of the development of the agricultural activity. In addition, the proposed amendment seeks to prevent the granting of state-owned free agricultural land by auctioning. The proposed changes are, according to our assessment, to the detriment of the Fund or its business policy and therefore also state property. In the Alliance, we agree to some extent that the Fund should also pursue the objectives of agricultural policy in the field of agricultural land transfer, which does not mean that it can completely ignore economic objectives. The data show that the average price of the purchase of state agricultural land is lower than the average price of the lease of private agricultural land and the return of the fund does not exceed 2 % of the value of the property of agricultural land, which means that the leases are still too low despite the increase. On the basis of bids, a three- to four-fold lease was reached. It is worth noting that market-oriented management of state property must also be enforced in the field of agriculture. This is a so-called natural income which the state cannot and must not leave to the private, even if they are engaged in an agricultural activity. For a long time, the Fund was a kind of parastatal fund, a political toy of one of the political parties that it used at the time of its participation in the government to satisfy the economic benefits of its members and sympathizers. Although it is not possible to report the latter to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, we cannot agree to re-establish logic as socially acceptable, that state property is not to be treated marketably, and that it is permissible for the State to bring them in on the basis of the so-called pressurization of policies that are hidden behind public initiatives to individual stakeholders. In addition, it is necessary to be aware of the financial obligations of the Fund. Some 12 million Euros have been paid from denationalisation procedures due to the inability to use agricultural land and forests returned in denationalisation procedures and 22 million Euros have still been opened. In the future, this will represent a very large financial burden for the Fund and the question is whether it will be able to pay it itself and will have to be taken directly by the state. In addition to the need for the Fund to pay the denationalisation financial liabilities due to the inability to use land and forests, it must also allocate 10% of all revenues each year to pay for all denationalisation obligations. The last fund for these purposes shall be transferred to the previous Court or today’s SDH. Not to mention the rent chosen by the mayors of municipalities where forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the owners of the fund are located. This annual burden of over €3 million, which is even more than the fund has to allocate to the Soda or SDH. On the basis of the above arguments, we do not support the bill in the Alliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u73	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u74	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow Members! By amending the law, the proposers wanted to amend the three articles relating to the modification of the composition of the Council, the introduction of the general principle of compulsory regulation of the order and the possibility of the Government to give its consent to the sub-legislative acts governing the lease of agricultural land. The change in the composition of the Fund's Council, as proposed by the proposers, would also include three representatives of users or leasers of the Fund's agricultural land, farms and forests, raises the question whether the proposed solution actually reflects the objectives set out, since this intervention in the four-year mandate of the Fund's Council, which began with the beginning of the year, which can be constitutionally disputed. The change at this point could also lead to a conflict of interests between private interests and public interests pursued by the Fund, which has already been published in the 2010 amendment. The Fund must continue to pursue objectives such as economically sound management, improvement of land and consequently agricultural structures, and preservation of the existing size of agricultural land owned by the State and the management of the fund. As possible, it should therefore be concerned about the provision of agricultural land functions, which are in the public interest in particular and only in the public interest. The Fund must follow the general principle of the implementation of agricultural and forest transport with a view to improving the land structure. The Fund also pursues the strategic objective of permanently increasing the competitive capacity of agriculture, as it allocates land to a competitively more eligible candidate in the process of leasing land for the same land if legally equivalent candidates appear for the publication for the same land. The auctioning institution is therefore used in the case of two equivalent tenants and is only considered at the last stage. In 2014, auctions were applied in less than 8 %. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that changes in this area are necessary, which also shows the fact that the proposers of the amendment of the law are a group of 5,000 and more voters. However, the amendments to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia need to be made more comprehensively and more systematically, in order to protect farmers on the one hand and to enable the Fund to function rationally and effectively. We will therefore support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre that the draft Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u75	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u76	Respected. Presidents. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the changes made by more than 5,000 voters. In the SDS, we believe that the primary task of the Fund is to ensure sustainable management of agricultural land, farms and forests owned by the State in a way that pursues the objectives of adapting to climate change, preserving nature and maintaining good water conditions in line with the objectives of the state agricultural policy. Since the Fund manages the best Slovenian agricultural land and forests owned by the State, it should take into account the long-term development objectives of agricultural policy and not only aim to generate profits, which does not fall within the framework of public funds activities. From its establishment until 2010, the Fund of Agricultural Lands was organised by the Council of the Fund of the President and eight members, five members were representatives of the founder and three members were representatives of the users or tenants of the agricultural land of the farms and the forests of the fund appointed and resolved by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. Eight members were appointed by the State and one of the representatives of the Fund's employees, appointed and resolved by the Fund's workers, was also appointed in the Fund's world. The President of the Council of the Fund was elected by members of the Council. In 2010, the government took this responsibility to appoint all seven members of the Council. It was also interesting that, in 2010, the Fund's Council adopted also a real estate regulation, which in some of the provisions is quite strange, since agricultural land and forests located on the border with building land are, as a rule, sold at a price ranging from the half to the full price of the building land of that area, which is determined on the basis of three comparable sales transactions from that area during the last half-year period. For the purposes of this lawyer, the building plot defined by a spatial act and any other land on which the building is situated shall be considered as a building plot. In doing so, as a border area on the building site, the land shall in any event be taken into account at a minimum width of 100 metres across the whole debt line with the building plot. This is said to be the case with the State providing that their land is at the border of the building land or even if there is no building land, only if there is a building, and even if there is a black building, 100 metres of it is worth half the price of the building land. That's what he came up with. This rule, however, was confirmed or the government’s agreement was only 13. 1. 2013 So, good two years after that, only the government agreed to this rule. In addition, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Fund has been mishandling these lands or unfairly since the establishment itself. As a result, compensation for the inability to use land claimed by denationalising beneficiaries in court. And now the fund has to pay high damages. In addition, it is located in certain areas, both in the area of the municipality of Izole, where 52% of all agricultural land is owned, including 3,000 black buildings on state land, which means that the state has taken very poor care of its property. In addition, the country is deprived of concessions for forest management, since a certain municipality, which owns 4 thousand 600 hectares of agricultural land, receives 37 euros per cubic metre and only 14 euros per country. This damages the country for some 20 million euros. And in 2010, he was the same agricultural minister as now, who somehow wants to establish a state-owned company that would continue to do so with land.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u77	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u78	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleague and colleague! Allow me to present to you the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The Desus Group did not support the proposal of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. If we had a vote on this proposal today, the proposal would not have received our support today. We agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal to amend the composition of the Council of the Fund re-establishs a conflict of interest which was eliminated by the amendment of the law in 2010. At that time, the conflict of interest between the private interests of the members of the Council was eliminated when it was established in Article 5 that the President and members of the Council of the Fund could not be persons for whom there was a possibility of conflict between their private interests and the public interests pursued by the Fund. The possibility of conflict shall be deemed to be if a member or the President of the Council is a member or tenant of land in the management of the fund, a contractual contractor in the forests with which the fund is managed. In this regard, the Government considers that it must manage state property, not economically interested organisations or their representatives, and that we also agree with the Desus Group. However, as regards the auctioning institute, I must remind myself that the Fund's development strategy already requires it to operate in a way that all its decisions will be economically sound. Through this institution, the Fund seeks to achieve as much income as possible, as it continues to use these funds, inter alia, to acquire new agricultural land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The possible abandonment of bids and the determination that a buyer or lessor of the equivalent priority beneficiaries should be designated in accordance with the principle of compulsory order could therefore lead to damage to state property. The Law on Agricultural Lands clearly lays down the priority order on the basis of which the lessee is established, so that the fund cannot go beyond the law, but only in accordance with the law. Only in the case of two equivalent tenants does the Fund's rules allow the Fund to select a tenant on the basis of whether a person has land, for example in a water security area, which means that the priority beneficiary is between two equivalent, and only in the latter phase does the auctioning institute count. Moreover, we cannot go beyond the fact that the lease has been reached at all bids up to 4.2 times higher, which is not something that the fund does not rule as a custodian should not be overlooked. In 2014, the leasing fund received around EUR 900 000 more rent, but in the same year it wrote off 421 000 Euros of land leases to the tenants in 2013. As a public institution, the fund is committed to making a profit, as it is the only source for the purchase of agricultural land and forests in the years to come, and to cover the obligations under the inability to use agricultural land and forests. At the end of the presentation of the position, I should like to reiterate that Members and Members of the Desus Group have assessed the proposed solutions as inappropriate, and that is why we have not supported the draft law at the home labour body meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u79	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT OF THE POMURAL REGION IN THE PERIOD 2010-2015. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Margareti Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded to the National Assembly a proposal for amendments to the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. The government has assessed the implementation of the law adopted by 22. Ten. 2009 and started to apply 1. 1. 2010, two more years to be extended, that is to 31. 12. 2017. Extension is the key and, in fact, the only substantive amendment to this law. It is accompanied by the harmonisation of the text due to changes in the organisation of the state administration. At the time of the adoption of the law, the competent national authority was the RS Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, which is now the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We estimate that the law needs to be extended, which is based on a legal commitment resulting from the sixth paragraph of Article 4 of the Law. The law explicitly states that the basic measure of development support must be a programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region, achieved by 2015 at a total value of EUR 33 million. The law provided the possibility that, in accordance with the budgetary options and needs for the implementation of the Government programme, other instruments could be identified by the programme or its amendment, which is also higher, but not lower, total amount, or long-term annual implementation dynamics as foreseen by this law. An estimated EUR 5 million and a half a year. At the same time, the law provides that the programme must be implemented at a total value of €33 million. By the end of 2014, €19 million had been paid and 4.4 million had been provided for this purpose in 2015. The calls have already been made. Therefore, for 2016 and 2017, around EUR 9.6 million remains to be allocated and paid. The reason for the delay in payments in the first years of implementation of the programme is mainly in the initial activities that took a certain start-up time to begin with a higher intensity. In recent years, however, the government has faced limited budgetary capacity, since the government could provide a significantly smaller share of the funding than the initially statutory €5.5 million per year in the years of the budget or the national budget. The implementation of the programme and the law shall also be monitored by the National Assembly in the framework of the annual reports. The Committee has already considered the 2013 annual report and there is an annual report for 2014 in the Government, so that it will soon be in the National Assembly. We note that most of the funding under the programme has been earmarked for instrument one, which is to encourage initial investment by businesses and job creation. We are aware that less activity has taken place in instruments two and three, that is to encourage the development of human resources and social entrepreneurship, and that in the framework of both instruments, which also represent more important untapped opportunities in this region, there will be the possibility of projects already established but not implemented in 2016 and 2017. The Government or the Ministry also envisages amending the Social Entrepreneurship Act, which has some of the downsides that have been shown at that time, in particular not to confuse specific pre-determined activities, but to open up and allow for innovation in this area. We will also propose in particular simplifications in the registration of social enterprises. From the previous annual reports and the current or current statistics in the Pomeranian region, in some areas a gradual improvement of the general economic picture is seen, but not to the extent that the extension of the period of implementation of the law is not justified. There is still a problem with high unemployment, which currently reaches 19.1% on average with April data. We therefore estimate that the extension of the law and the implementation of the programme totalling EUR 33 million is also appropriate from the point of view of the currently tightening public financial capacity. Following the adoption of the extension of the law on the development of the Pomurski region in the National Assembly, we will also propose a promotion programme for the extension and thus give the possibility for the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to publish early in the spring of 2016 the first public tenders in the remainder of the value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u81	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I welcome the executive power, in particular the new Secretary of State! Before I tell myself the position of the Joint Left Group, I can't help but look at who's sitting here and it seems to me that this topic is only of interest to us, from the styrian and pomurski or premurski end, if that's what you want – from the pomurski end – with a few rare exceptions. I know that colleagues and colleagues are preparing for parliamentary questions, but this is also an indicator that I see as a space sociologist in this room right now. It's an attitude. The developmental inequality of Slovenia is, of course, a problem and a challenge. Statistics can never fully cover everything. After all, every government is smart enough to turn these statistics around so little to fit it, but, look, if we look at just some of the most typical indicators of the registered unemployment rate, it is around 13% in the pomur statistical region in all four months of this year over 20%, at national level. In short, this means that it is more than half the national average. There is no loneliness in the many development challenges posed by the problem. For example, I can touch Zasavje where the registered unemployment rate is 15,7 %. It'd be even higher if it weren't for relatively low unemployment in Zagorje. The registered unemployment rate is, for example, more than 20% consistent in poultry. The numbers and words of us politicians, of course, cannot describe the human suffering and the lost future behind them. The comparative underdevelopment of individual regions does not mean that other parts of the country are doing very well. 13.1% of registered unemployment at national level is, of course, huge. By comparison, at the end of the period of fat cows, we are talking about 2008, in short, when the European Union was still impressed by some exemplary democracy, when the years of the mysteries of transition and the Yanshe government had not yet erupted, it was 6.7%, just to be clear. Today it is twice as high and, of course, we are facing difficult challenges. In the United Left, we also want to highlight the lack of a partial approach to solving development problems. This does not mean, of course, that such laws are not necessary, they are absolutely necessary and are not effective enough. The Government itself acknowledges, the secretary mentioned earlier that the values of key social and economic indicators in Pomour do not move to better or even worse. The measures should be included in the country's integrated economic, technological, cultural and other development strategy and not only placed within it, but should also be considered. Of course, we do not call for the Ministry of the Interior or any other strategy to be written in a series. We already have too many unsavory strategies, my students would say "over-dose". Yesterday you accepted, I'll just say, a non-capital investment management strategy of the country. We have a document called the Slovenian Industrial Policy 2014-2020, in preparation for me so dearly is the Smart Specialisation Strategy for the same period, which is likely to be again only many dead letters on paper and, it seems, unfortunately, an excuse for the privatisation and reckless sale of state property. Where's the solution? We need to set clear, measurable development goals, but they must not be limited only to the economy in a narrower sense. Developmental breakthroughs are taking place today in culture, science, education and could still be listed. We need to look at what development resources and knowledge we have at our disposal and to link them meaningfully and effectively into new and different practices. I mean, there's no hot water to detect. This has been done by the societies to which we want to compare ourselves, and this is also the task ahead of us. I will talk about this later on in the context of the oral question to Minister Restoration. So for now, I'm just gonna finish up for a little while. For the period 2010-2018, the country earmarked four areas of development concern – of course, this is where the expert made a mistake, 2014-399 million euros. Realisation has so far been, if we look for the whole, 8% for the Pomeranian region 56, somewhere – the secretary of state moves with his head – for ours and my love Maribor the lowest, good 2.5%. How, then, colleagues and colleagues, can we solve the development problems of this country if we do not even implement the partial measures that we have already taken, nor do we link them into a broader strategy that is the only one that can make them effective? We will, of course, support this amendment of the so-called "pomurish law", but I hope that after a break in the United Left, we will start to deal with the things I mentioned earlier. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u83	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues, Pomurke and Pomurci! The purpose of the Law on Development Support to the Pomur Region in the period 2010-2015, adopted in 2009, was clear: through a comprehensive programme approach, to provide additional funding for development support to Pomurje. Here, of course, it is not the statistical region of Pomurje, it is a few more municipalities, but we are talking about Pomurje. It therefore meant accelerating development, the law meant accelerating the development of the Pomur region by creating new jobs and maintaining existing and building development infrastructure and addressing the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. We all know that the economic crisis has been the most painful for this region. Particularly in the light of the collapse of larger companies from this region, such as Pomurka and Mura. That is why the adoption of the law was necessary at the time and was a legal basis for the development of this part of our country to provide dedicated resources in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The first measure of the Programme for Promoting the Competitiveness of the Pomeranian Region in 2010-2015 is in fact the most important part of the region's development restructuring and is legally set at EUR 33 million for the period 2010-2015. As the end of this year’s so-called pomura law ceases to apply and, thus, the suspension of the obligation to provide budgetary resources for these purposes, I, on behalf of New Slovenia, have already raised an oral question at the regular meeting of the National Assembly to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology and to the Minister for Finance regarding the Government’s follow-up. It was clear from the 2015 rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its 9th extraordinary meeting in February this year, that under the legal framework of defined development programmes there was insufficient funding. So the government was already in violation of the above-mentioned pomur law. If the Pomeranian region were left without additional development incentives at the end of the year, this would only mean a partial implementation of the instruments of this programme, which was only 57.6% realized in the period 2010-2015. So we don't even record the two-thirds implementation of the program. The fact that the level of registered unemployment in the Pomur statistical region continues to rise and to exceed 21 % in January 2015, in addition to the fact that we are facing larger unfinished infrastructure projects in this region, would be unacceptable and irresponsible. Let us not forget; the Pomur region is one of the less developed Slovenian regions and, due to these circumstances, it urgently needs state aid to boost the competitiveness of this part of Slovenia by opening new jobs and new infrastructure projects. This, however, will be possible through the additional provision of financial resources in the state budget for 2016 and 2017 and the extension of the Development Support Act to the Pomur region for the period 2010-2015. In Novi Slovenija, we constantly note that in Slovenia, coherent regional development is not going well. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we advocate a balanced and fair development of all Slovenian regions, so we will support the proposed amendment of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. It would be unacceptable for planned state aid to undertakings not to be distributed to the full extent envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u85	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! As far as we are aware of the actual economic and social situation of Pomurje, we need to be united in the view that the extension of the Law on Development Support of the Pomeranian Region, which is the subject of the proposed amendment of the law, is necessary and necessary. Given the circumstances, this is the only rational action in terms of accelerating the convergence of this region in the economic and social sphere of Slovenia's average. In other countries, even in a relatively developed North European and Scandinavian area, intervention measures are also being taken when this is necessary because of problems or persistently negative indicators of a particular region. So this is no Slovenian exception. The underlying productivity indicators of Pomurje have indeed improved slightly over the past period, but there is still a significant gap in relation to the national average. The situation is most critical in the area of a very high unemployment rate, which, for example, in the Lendava area remains strong – I emphasise – strongly exceeds 20%. In the other, particularly the national mixed and border area and elsewhere, the situation is similar or even more alarming in terms of unemployment. Experts who are working in depth to analyse the effectiveness of this law estimate that we are somewhere in the middle of the road with regard to its implementation. A possible break in the implementation of the law at the end of the year would thus mean a big slap in the eye of this area, which, not because of its guilt, but because of its historical and regional specificity, especially the adverse circumstances of the last decade, has been in an unenviable position. The bill emphasises that the impact of the implementation of the law so far has had a positive impact mainly on the GDP movement, which has contributed to, at least, the area's recovery from the last to the last post in the country. They also calculated that if the accumulated problems were solved by other mechanisms, they would be far less effective than if we did so by means of the provisions of the Pmurje Development Support Act. In my opinion, this is an unequivocal argument to support this law. A detailed analysis of the implementation of the law so far shows that two instruments have been implemented in the framework of the programme to promote the competitiveness of the gloomy economy. This is instrument number one, which covers calls for companies and instrument number four, which relates to the promotion of the region. The latter regret only from 2013 onwards, because the dispute in this regard has elapsed. Other instruments have only begun to be implemented, but no concrete realization has occurred. In the area of social entrepreneurship, there were two calls for three projects. This instrument was active in 2010, and the contract awarded to the company Accession was virtually not implemented by 2013 because of the complications the competent minister terminated the contract in 2011. As we are aware, criminal proceedings are under way in this regard. The same is true of instruments number five, where Oikos was a contractual partner, and virtually nothing has happened. So, as has already been pointed out in the Government's position, the bill of the planned programme provides a total of €33 million for Pomurje, but only €19 million was realised by the end of 2014. Almost €14 million is still untapped, while there are many problems in the region, so in our first reading group we will support the law and also in later stages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u87	The text is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, for which Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u88	Madam President, thank you for your opportunity. Dear representatives of the Ministry, everyone else is present! In 2009, the country reached its peak in terms of economic, sociological and social problems, with thousands of people losing their jobs, responding to the adoption of the Development Support Act for the Pomeranian Region in the period 2010-2015. It has decided to adopt an integrated and targeted approach to the economic dimension of the region and to achieve its long-term development restructuring, which is the basic objective of the law. Following initial difficulties and the active involvement of the Regional Development Agency, Mura has significantly improved the implementation of the law, as evidenced by the results of the evaluation study carried out, which shows that the 706 jobs and 300 jobs with foreign direct investment have been created directly through the development incentives, but we will be able to obtain a final performance assessment after the end of the programming period. On the basis of tangible economic impulses, mainly at the expense of the post-harvest exporters, who recorded a record EUR 665 million of exports in 2014, it appears that the regional economy is also collected from the development bottom at the expense of the pomurs law. Nevertheless, the situation is still critical. In the region, there are almost 10 000 unemployed and recorded a 19.1% registered unemployment rate that exceeds the Slovenian average by good 53% and the per capita GDP by 34%. All of this shows that the consequences of the economic crisis due to economic weakness in the region are still strong. The shocks of the collapse of large companies are slowing down by strengthening medium-, small- and micro-enterprises that are already employing 70% of all employees and becoming increasingly competitive in the global market. It is essential for the region and the country to make use of the rights already guaranteed by law to use development incentives to the end, as only in this way can the law achieve the objective and justify the purpose. This will only be possible if the programming period is extended by two years or until the end of 2017. The main reason that the region could not benefit from the already guaranteed rights to draw on the development support programme for promoting the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region of EUR 33 million was the budgetary capacity of the country. By the end of 2015, the rebalancing of drawing rights will only benefit from €23.4 million and the remainder of €9.6 million by the end of 2017, which will not jeopardise the achievement of the objectives of the law, as we are opening up the possibility of granting support to quality, productive and sustainable projects by extending the period. We are aware of the importance of fulfilling the legal obligations towards the Pomeranian region and of consistent regional development in the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, and therefore support the amendment of the law, which is assessed by the region and the Government as good, useful and needed by the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u89	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the distinguished Secretary of State with the team! Before us is the first review of the Law amending the Law on Development Support to the Pomurski region in the period 2010-2015. The proposed amendment proposes to extend the period of implementation of the law by two years, until the end of 2017. The proposed law assesses that it will be easier to achieve the objectives of the law during the extension period, as well as to provide the necessary means to implement the Competitiveness Promotion Programme in 2016 and 2017. The Pomur Act was adopted in 2009 with the aim of introducing additional measures to promote the development of the Pomur region, the creation of new jobs and the preservation of existing jobs, as well as the establishment of development infrastructure and the elimination of the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in the Pomur region. The main objective of the law was and remains to reduce unemployment or create new jobs. But as the proposed amendments to the law themselves identify, the instruments that are the subject of this law have still not solved the central problem, this is a major unemployment in the Pomurska region. This is also confirmed by figures showing that the number of unemployed remains at 19 to 20%, which is the same as in the period of adoption of the law at the end of 2009. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the law at the time of its adoption in 2009, but we have already pointed out a number of concerns which, if we look at the results of the law today, have proved justified. Let me make the most of it. We opposed the establishment of a government project office, as this part could be taken over by a regional development development agency, which, by setting up a project office, was somewhat untrustworthy. We also assessed at that time that there would be a duplication of tasks on the part of the development agency and the project office, which is certainly not rational. Further, when the management of the government office was taken over by the then State Secretary from the cabinet of Prime Minister Andrej Horvat, it was clear why the establishment of the project office was necessary. Later, due to conflict of interest, suspicion of corruption and irregularities in the implementation of the pomur law, he, of course, resigned as Secretary of State. We also mentioned in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there is no need for the establishment of a regional economic centre to be subject to this law. Looking at the results today, we see that 21 million euros have been paid under this measure, but only for three projects of the development centres of the Slovenian economy, which have generated only 162 jobs and five new businesses. We do know, however, that one of these companies, the Development Centre for new materials, drives and technologies, has been bankrupt since March this year. We also opposed the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre, as the tasks could be coordinated and carried out by the development agency in cooperation with interested associations and educational institutions. This would play a greater role in the existing system of educational institutions and development agencies and would rationalise the necessary activities in this area. Looking at the results of this measure today, we see that we have invested EUR 2 million in the adaptation of the facility and the purchase of technological equipment. So we only have a renovated and equipped facility. We do not see any results in the form of new jobs or the results of the development of the Pomur region. With regard to the water supply project in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have pointed out that this project was already in the national programme prior to the adoption of this law. Nevertheless, investing in drinking water infrastructure has become one of the measures where we know that there is a suspicion of fraud in construction linked to the unjustified accounting of labour and material and the fear of returning European funds. It is also possible to understand from the accompanying material of the proposed amendment of the law that the money to go towards the development of the Pomeranian region and to reduce the number of unemployed was spent on project tasks and evaluation studies allocated to the external contractor, which we have already opposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group at the time of adoption and we also oppose today. It is correct to remind you, however, that in 2009, the SLS Group tabled an amendment that sought to ensure that funds for the development of the Pomeranian region were not allocated and used for the production of studies, expertise, professional bases, documentation and advisory contracts, which we also supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, but unfortunately the left coalition of this amendment did not support. Today we believe it was for a reason. A number of critical points of implementation of the law of purgatory have been highlighted, which in fact point to the non-implementation of the fundamental mission of this law. Regardless of the proposed change in the deadline for the implementation of the law on the developmental Pomeranian region in the first reading, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will be supported. However, I must make it clear that we strongly oppose the use of resources for various studies and advisory contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and, of course, others who are in this hall, especially the inhabitants of Pomurje, because I do not think that this should actually be done in the State Assembly at any given time! In fact, implementation of the bill started in February 2010. As early as the first adoption of the law in autumn 2009, he was unanimously supported by the Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We will do the same this time because it is about allowing for the further development of the less developed Pomeranian region under the rest of the funding. Since then, there have actually been a number of activities in the Pomur region that have been marked by positive effects, although the economic situation has been somewhat strengthened lately, and the final results are still not sufficiently competitive. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are aware of the extremely poor economic and social situation in the region. The development of the industry is gradually deteriorating, resulting in an increase in the number of already very high levels of unemployment and thus walking the standard of living of citizens. The problem was further deepened by the closure of the Mura factory, Pomurka, which were rescue plants for a large family in the Pomurje area. The financial framework of the law is the basis for the exercise of the rights to quality of life of the inhabitants of the Pomeranian region. It represents the continuation of various projects that have already been started, so in the Desus Group it seems only logical for us to support the extension of the two-year deadline for the implementation of the law. It is not a matter of a self-evident continuation of the law, but the remaining €14 million of the total €33 million invested means much more for the Pomura region. It means additional opportunities for new jobs, the development of entrepreneurship, the competitiveness of agricultural and forestry activities and finally adequate water supply infrastructure, which is expected to be fully completed by the end of this year. The Council of the Pomurje Development Region has also warned the country that it should indicate by the way the means that the pomur water pipeline can be completed within a certain period of time, that is to say by the end of this year. We also support the decision of the Government in the Desus Group in further defining the text of the law. By the end of 2015, the government had instructed the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to proceed with the preparation of development support measures and a programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region by 2023 in accordance with the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development. I would add that in our parliamentary group, we see added value in the development of the Pomeranian region in tourism. It is an accessible and wider region also outside the national borders, as it is geographically part of the border area. To develop tourism, the Pomur region already has many potentials, such as natural beauty, thermal treatment, local food production and organic products on traditional tourist farms – and could also be listed. As I have already announced in the introduction, we will support the proposed law by Members and Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The reason for the adoption of the intervention law in 2009 was the need of the urban development region to require State aid in view of the development indicators and the constitutional principle of the social state and solidarity with people in the financial and economic crisis. The economic power of Pomurje deteriorated significantly in 2008 as the impact of the financial and economic crisis further increased the development backlog. The Pomur economy was seized by financial and economic spasms, which were also present elsewhere in Slovenia, but because of economic weakness in Pomur, their impact was significantly stronger. It was found that only regional policy measures are not sufficient, but specific measures are needed, and in particular a coordinated action of sectoral policies. On the basis of an assessment of the situation in Pomurje, which has shown great difficulties, a development law has been drawn up which has provided public funds for measures to open new perspectives in Pomurje and provided a new opportunity for the gloomy economy to finally benefit from the comparative advantages of geothermal energy, sustainable agriculture and agri-food and, of course, tourism. The purpose of the law was to support the preparation and implementation of development projects in the region by enhancing the absorption capacity of Pomur in public tendering candidates and programmes. By investing, the public co-financing of companies' investments sought to encourage the development of businesses and entrepreneurship in Pomure. The desire was to create business dynamise the region and, above all, to ensure faster opening of new jobs. By investing in staff, the labour force in Pomour wanted to properly reclassify and train for new challenges and increase the possibility of new employment for educated staff and, by promoting social entrepreneurship, create conditions for the accelerated development of employment. The programme focused on improving the image of the region and promoting it with the aim of attracting foreign and domestic investors. The main solutions to the law thus provided adequate development support for the restructuring of the backward development regions of Pomur region, where the situation has deteriorated significantly in severe economic and financial conditions. With the proposed measures prepared under the programme approach and the provision of financial resources, the then government wanted to encourage investment in domestic and foreign capital and thus create the conditions for restructuring the area. The law provided for a specific programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region for the period 2010-2015, which allocated EUR 33 million, and also envisaged incentives for employment and proposed tax incentives for investment and priority treatment of programmes and projects from Pomurje in the run for state and European funds and the establishment of a regional economic centre. The indicative value of the measures under the priority treatment of projects and programmes was EUR 162 million, of which EUR 90 million was the largest, was devoted to investing in infrastructure for the supply of healthy drinking water to the population. Investment, promotion and enhancement of the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry and the food and processing industry were estimated at EUR 40 million. However, EUR 30 million was foreseen to encourage the Regional Economic Centre in Pomour. Measures totalling EUR 261 million have been envisaged over 6 years. The main objective of the specific programme was to alleviate crisis situations and create thousands of new jobs, combined with different instruments. For Pomurje, the largest number of directly created new jobs in sectors with higher added value was and is still crucial. Some measures had an immediate effect; others were longer term in nature. The law certainly wasn't perfect, which doesn't mean he was unsuccessful. The analysis shows that the basic productivity indicators in Pomura are improving, but there is still a significant gap in relation to Slovenia's average. GDP per capita in the Pomurska region was 30.9% less than the Slovenian average in 2012. In some areas, the gradual improvement of the general economic picture is significant in the Pomur region, but not in the area of unemployment and not to the extent that it is not necessary to extend the period of implementation of the law. The registered unemployment rate according to the latest available data is 19,1 %, which is 7 % more than at national level. The consequences of the economic crisis remain strong due to economic weakness in the Pomurska region. The interim analysis of the implementation of the 2010-2013 programme responded to questions on the adequacy, effectiveness and effectiveness of the programme. It follows from the findings that the allocations were too low in order to make major structural changes in the region. While the instruments dealt adequately with some problems in the region, they did not solve the underlying problems of high unemployment. The Pomurje 2015 programme has appropriately upgraded and complemented other policies or programmes that are or are being implemented in Slovenia. The link between the appropriations and better business could not be statistically demonstrated, but business operations, particularly smaller ones, have improved. However, companies have increased their productivity, optimized the work process, increased production volume, reduced operating costs, increased flexibility and facilitated field work. The proposed amendment therefore extends the period of implementation of the law for two years. The programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region in the period 2010-2015, for which EUR 33 million was foreseen, was carried out at 57.6%. Unrealised funds for the implementation of the programme amount to around €14 million, almost €4.4 million for 2015, and the remaining €9 million 600 are to be provided through the 2016 and 2017 national budgets. Since the objectives of the law have not yet been achieved and all the funds envisaged have not yet been used, the extension of the law and the subsequent adaptation of the development programme, which will allow for more efficient use of resources in the coming years, are justified. We believe that the proposed projects need to be implemented to the end, so we will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State Mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Before the debate, I may reply or give an opinion to some of the views presented by the groups of Members. What's happened most of the time is the level of unemployment. It is true that around 19 % remains in the area of this region, which is foreseen by law, or slightly above 20 in the statistical region. However, I would like to mention that before the entry into force of the law we had 11 000 137 unemployed people, the current figure is 9 000 600, that is to say a thousand 500 less. Here it must be borne in mind that only the bankruptcys of Mura and Pomurka have taken away 6,000 500 jobs. So we can't talk about the fact that the law was not effective, as far as unemployment is concerned, because if we didn't have these bankruptcys, then probably there would be no law, but I am warning Members that we were successful here and unemployment is falling, and that from month to month. It is precisely because of what you mentioned – more and more businesses are being set up and economic indicators for micro and small enterprises are positive. Go ahead, instruments. As I mentioned in the presentation, it is true that we ourselves are not satisfied with instrument three – social entrepreneurship. Somehow the Ministry didn't get a hearing for the application. A 2 million call for infrastructure projects or competitiveness promotion projects and 300 000 for social entrepreneurship is also being considered in the Government. Unfortunately, we only got six bets, one of which was appropriate. Indeed, at the Ministry we are aware that we need to do more to explain and promote this instrument in what way things should be done. As well as what I have already mentioned, it will be necessary to amend the entrepreneurship law, which is in some ways restrictive; limiting it to activities that can be registered for this purpose and to register where there are several administrative obstacles. This is what we want to change, and this change is now that the law in our ministry is also in the process. Tourism and development of the region were mentioned. We agree that Pomurje has quite a few opportunities here. This is the objective of instrument four, which has been fully taken over by the Regional Agency of Mura. The Mura Regional Agency, we believe at the Ministry, is doing very well. The promotion of the region was carried out under this instrument. A new offer of the region is being prepared, participation at international fairs, preparation of the promotional film Pomurje and complete renovation of the website. We believe that the regional agency will prove itself here and that we will be able to achieve more on this instrument. I would also like to touch on the objectives, i.e. it is not true that the objectives are not set. The objectives are set for the whole period and also for each year. We have achieved some of these goals and have also overcome them. The target of thousands of new jobs was mentioned. Well, this goal has been exceeded, the current indicator by the end of 2014 is a thousand 281 in order to point out that these are all contractually foreseen jobs. Indeed, companies undertake to employ so many and so many people three to five years after the measure. That's how jobs are supposed to be. Finally, we also have an indicator of the number of economic operators involved in co-financing projects, the target was 150, we have 224 involved by the end of 2014. So these two million are now going to go into 14 new projects, so we're assuming that this is where it's going to go. Perhaps just a little bit more about percentages; 57.6% is exploitation, but only from this part of promoting the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region, because we have to say that the total amount available to Pmurje from all programmes and ministries is 264 million. According to our data, all indicators, such as the return of the employer's contributions paid and the projects of the regional economic centre, restructuring and raising the competitiveness of agriculture and investment in infrastructure, say the supply of drinking water to the Pomeranian region, totalling 90 million. Thus, if we extend this law, we expect that the total amount of 264 million for Pomurje will also be exhausted or used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, welcome! Of course, I will support the bill for several reasons. First, because I come from Maribor and I know what universal deprivivisation means, but now it is not the topic of Maribor, the theme is Pomurje. I will also support because the figures of the entire Pomur region show that this region needs assistance, including events from the past, show that this is one of the regions most affected during the last 20-year period of independent Slovenia. I will support this because it will not be easier to implement all the remaining measures, but some in the extended period of time, but I will also support them because of the budgetary developments, because we know that it is impossible to ensure for the first time this year, but also for the second time to implement all of these measures, because 2015 is already deep or is already half-deep – no, not practically, actually passed. It is therefore only appropriate to extend the period of aid to Pomour for a further period of two years. Of course, I have to find that relatively poor pumping or poor realisation in the total mass of 33 million for this purpose, at this point it is over 50 %, hoping that this year's realisation will be full, 100 %, but only 70 % will be achieved, so that the remaining 9.5, 9.6 million in the next two years still needs to recover a little. I would like to implement those measures that have already brought results and helped to create new jobs in the past, but this is in any way, I will only mention two, the reimbursement of paid contributions to employers who have been newly employed and who have been – I estimate – that this measure has been underutilised and the tax relief for investment and employment. Of course, the criticism is that it was slowly drained and that some funds, at least during that initial start-up period, were probably used — not likely, but certainly inadequate. A study, a study, and what I know, has been said, but they have not received money from those who would actually create new jobs and invest in the economy, agriculture and elsewhere. It is also true that interim evaluation has also been carried out. The aim of this evaluation was to gain insight into the effectiveness and effectiveness of the implementation of the Pomurje programme, I will shorten – Pomurje 2015, in the first three years; hence, from the beginning of 2010 to the end of 2012, from the implementation of this law on the Pomurska region. It was a matter of verifying the appropriateness of evaluation, which is why the evaluation focused primarily on the logic of the programming structure and in line with other policies and programmes. In this respect, it is noted that funds have been allocated too low to allow for major and structural changes in the region itself. While the instruments dealt adequately with some problems in the region, they did not solve the main problems, namely the elimination of large over-average unemployment. With regard to efficiency itself as the second parameter, which is valued, it is noted that the monitoring and control system requires a high administrative burden and is consistent with established practice in Slovenia and the guardians of the contracts do their work relatively well and commendablely. With regard to performance, the evaluation focused on the allocation of grants to start-up investments by companies. The beneficiaries of the first and second public tender under the so-called one instrument have together created 770 new or new jobs in three years. As a result of the funds received, companies invested in the new technology rather than in any other way. The evaluator has also made recommendations which can be taken into account by the proposers in the preparation of the amendments, modification of the competition promotion programmes. Let me conclude by allowing me another reflection in the context of aid to Pomour and in the context of the adoption of the ZIPRS or the Budget Implementation Act yesterday, which we focused on, or only on, the average for municipalities. I think that at least these two regulations, and whoever else is here, are that alarm, that sign that the existing local self-government really needs changes, root changes, otherwise it will be unsustainable in the future. When I talk about radical changes, I am also referring to the introduction of landscapes that we have been talking about for many years, and we are practically doing nothing. I believe that if this matter — and this is not an appeal for a referendum, by no means — were to go before the voters in the form of a referendum, I think we would achieve plebiscite support. So, I should also be allowed to think in this direction, I believe that the results would be much better, the functioning of local self-government at all levels is much more effective, and thus the satisfaction of the people to whom this is intended. Thank you very much. But of course, we will support, in Desus we will unanimously support the proposal of the law, because we do not see any alternatives if we want Pomura and Pomura and Pomurak and Pomurkam well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! When I welcome the amendment of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015, which will now be until 2017, of course I must also express my regret that the Government is not in this year's budget or with the 2015 budget rebalancing that all that has been defined in the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region will also be realized. Let me explain to all of you, colleagues and colleagues, and also to the Slovenian public that there will be no mistake that in Pomura there was sufficient absorption capacity to absorb by the end of this year all the money that this law actually predicted. The fact was that there was not enough money in the budget for this year, in some ways I personally understand it, the finance minister must have the biggest problems when he has to close the balance or budget and, of course, I must express here the satisfaction and gratitude that the law will actually be implemented and concluded two years later. Much good has been brought about by this law, and last year, we on the Committee on the Economy have discussed the report on the implementation of the Law on Development Support to Pomurje for the previous year and have actually identified the positive contributions that the law has made. Of course, there was something, as it were, stupidity. That is why I would like these to be absent in the next two years, and I appeal to the employees of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is the custodian of this law, to be careful not to repeat any nonsense. I also regret that we did not fully succeed the project following the invitation to tender for the Development Centre of the Slovenian Economy when it was set up for Pomurje, I think 30 million euros. It is true that it has grown, good, beautiful, large industrial facility in Puconci in Prekmurje, but then the production for which this facility was built did not have glass. Thank God, we have a good, strong, international company at home that has now moved its production into these premises. But this did not bring new jobs, so here I see this problem, and we simply did not take advantage of this 30 million, as we did in Pomure in some way, as we could. Another thing, one that should never happen again, is what the RRA Mura people and the Pomur Chamber of Economics are telling me. It was some kind of grass basket, which we said was then incinerated in Austria, which cost about €210,000, and I don't know if this was the best solution. I don't know, but I'm just saying, maybe someone can explain it to me. However, I would also like to appeal again to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to sit down with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, together with the RRA Mura, before the invitations to tender, and to define precisely the tendering conditions which will not be those of any person or company who will be written on the skin, against such calls, but those which will actually be logical and will be written on the skin. So in the spirit of marriage. But the spirit of marriage is to help, to help the Pomur region developmentally. I think that ladies and gentlemen at the Ministry know what I am talking about, and I think that we need a little good will and that we can be very successful here and that we can really use every euro, literally every euro, as a development aid to Pomura. It is true, we have great problems in our region, I will not talk about statistics now, we can read everything on web portals, in a way, thank God that we are close to Austria and that we are in Europe and that we have free movement of people. We do, of course, because there was also a speech about Mura before, and Mrs State Secretary talked about it, but of course we also have problems elsewhere in Slovenia, such as insolvent legislation. But you know that on Friday, production must stop, where 400 people are employed in Mura, because it is said to have been ordered by the court or bankruptcy manager and production will have to stop, despite having the capacity sold a year in advance. I don't have time to explain the reasons in detail. I support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I believe that we can join in the assessment that the adoption of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska region has been a major leap in thinking about how to respond to development problems in certain areas in Slovenia. And that's what happened when we ran the government as Social Democrats. I believe that the impact of this law would also be significantly greater if the economic and financial crisis did not take place, which has also resulted in the loss of many jobs, but also in the reduction of resources in the budget for development needs in Slovenia. Part of this has certainly been received, if I may say so, also by the Pomur region. I am afraid that even in the future, when we have to implement the fiscal rule, we will come to the realization that the areas that are the most vulnerable will have the greatest problems of how to actually balance our development potential, given that the funds are likely to be earmarked for everything else, not for development in such areas. This is due to the fact that at least 3 other problems have been identified in Slovenia besides Pomur, which were not solved by one law or by a specific law, but by a bill on the promotion of coherent regional development. I think it would also make sense to do this somehow at the Ministry of Analysis, whether it is more effective if we solve a particular problem area with a specific law for this problem area, whether it is more effective if we have this in a single roof law and then the government adopts a programme, because it was thought that the government would respond, of course, as soon as there are development problems and there is no need for a state council with a proposal, but that programme can be adopted at the government, funds and the programme is running out. However, I think that there is now quite a bit of experience from then on, and this would also be a good way forward, because in other problem areas too, the period in which the status of the problem area has expired is, for example, an established 2011 programme, which expires in 2016, if I am not mistaken. There are also effects significantly smaller than here because the state did not provide sufficient resources for development. Of course, we support the extension of the Development Support Act to the Pomur region for two years, but I think it will be necessary, I think, to look at, or at least say, not only did this law have a beneficial effect or an impact on the Pomur region itself, but it also had a cross-border impact, as there are certainly many programmes that have also been prepared in neighbouring Hungary to promote development, they could also be upgraded because a specific programme has been adopted in Slovenia and they have always had the opportunity to commit to this programme. It is therefore a fact that the impact is also cross-border, which is extremely important for the operation of the entire area. It is possible that one of these questions is whether the extension of other programmes in Slovenia in troubled areas is being considered, but surely it would be a very desirable analysis, whether it is more meaningful and effective way to have a special law or a roof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before preparing for today's debate, I reviewed certain policies of less developed areas as an element of a policy of more coherent regional development in Slovenia. I compared the indicators and these policies from 1971 to today; which were these areas, how they helped them in the country at the time, how we began to regulate certain policies that would have threatened these areas from different perspectives – how we would have helped them today. So the Law on so-called support for the Pomurska region entered into force in 2010 and it expires this year. We have mixed feelings about the results of this law. On the one hand, as a Member living in a flat border area, of course, I have to support the law on support for this region, where there is a strong social pressure, and on the other hand, we need to look at real statistical indicators. What have we achieved with this money, my esteemed colleagues? Did that money get to people? Is it for the people? Is it intended that this region is also economically self-sufficient, self-sufficient, that is our goal, or was it intended for the so-called bureaucrats of this law? And the results we have today, let's look at them -- the other part of the statistics that wasn't presented. Before this law, there were about 11,000 unemployed in Pomour, today we have 9,000 600 unemployed. The total amount of money to be allocated from all programmes, to what extent to be extended, is approximately EUR 264 million. The number 264 million euros, if we divide it into 10,000 people, so if I go now before the market in Murski Sobota and I call again from Ormož a few people, and from Gornja Radgona and from Apache and from Jurija to Ščavnica, which belong to this, I know that I can give everyone about 26 thousand euros, maybe a little more, because there are fewer. [[…]] I give everyone 26,000 euros and I say, "Dear colleagues, look, if you have money, you will survive and you will never demand anything from this country again. Twenty-six thousand euros for every unemployed person. Where did that money go in those years? Did he go, say, to the Portal of Pomurec, or did he go to Mr. Horvath of SD, Mr. Milosevic, to the people around the agency approach and so on? For social entrepreneurship, excuse me, social entrepreneurship – yes, but the country, if we want to have some serious economic policy, then social entrepreneurship can correct these countries. If we invest almost less than 2 billion in the school system, if we want to have top experts, if we want to maintain the Institute of Joseph Stefan, the Chemical Institute, other institutes dealing with development in different fields, are we always talking about social entrepreneurship or are the final products of all this school system, all of this Slovenia, in terms of economic breakthroughs, formerly social entrepreneurship? Are we all working to have only social entrepreneurship or are we going to have serious enterprises with high added value, with high knowledge that will be scattered at different ends of Slovenia? These companies, with these knowledge embedded in these products, can give the true value, the best picture and the greatest guarantee for the social state we have entered as Article 2 of our Constitution, respected colleagues! That's how serious capitalism works. Social entrepreneurship – yes; social entrepreneurship – we help vulnerable groups, as they do in various developed countries, but the basis why we invest millions and billions in the education and science system so that Slovenia, as a small nation, will survive in such a special area, is that we will also have services of high added value. Only this will be a guarantee for all of you and for your pensions, it will be a guarantee that your grandchildren, your sons' daughters, will not go abroad and so on. The difference of 11,000 to 9,000 600 is a thousand 400 people. We have data on the number of jobs, the active number of employees. Shall I tell you about how many of these people were employed by neighbouring Austria? Approximately. From Prekmur from this area, right from where the Prekmur law applies, about 4,000 is a number, maybe another 5,000. So, at this moment, the Austrians have made this crisis the most mitigating, not Slovenia, Austria from this border area, so-called Vulcanland, some of us call it Southeast Styria, where my friend Dr. Alexander Majcen is the county chief. You can get data from the county head. They were the best employees at this time. Prekmurski law – an affair for an affair. Most of the money allocated to friends around Mr Horvat in the first phase of 2010 and so on and social entrepreneurship. This is the whole story of the Premur law. And 264 million euros. Do you imagine how many businesses, young entrepreneurs who are working today, who have moved their companies from Ljubljana, perhaps from Slovenia to abroad, London, New York, to Silicon Valley, where they are developing products that may once have an interest or in software, hardware, engineering, automotive industry, when companies that will give billions will need perhaps 20,000, 40,000 – what could happen in these companies? On the other hand, Prekmurje is the hostage of a policy. Let's take a look at Prekmurje's greatest outlook, which was tourism. Every Slovenian and Slovenian should remember what the city of Radenci once represented, what the Radenci once represented, and what today. The Soviets are also in the premurk law. What did they do during this time in the field of tourism, what does the so-called Sava Tourism do, how do we exhaust the temperatures in this area, Banovce, Moravce, Lendava Terme, Radence and so on? So it's a waste of some socialist policies, how we're going to have all of ourselves, how we don't need foreigners, how we have enough of our own capital that's been totally wronged. And all of this was concentrated in the Prekmurje area. The more socialist policies there will be, the more poverty will be in this area. I come from the Slovenian Mountains alone, we have lost a great deal because of the Premur law. This is an area where flat earth passes into a hilly world, where people have always lived modestly, where small farms are, where there is an extremely difficult working land. We have unemployment, between 10% and 13%. And we've never been in this marriage. People had to get to know each other. Most of them went abroad, doing a lot of them in Austria. People work on small farms, they are satisfied with modest achievements. We have a whole range of companies on account, I can say, certain people who have been successful economists and have at least a few jobs in the Lenart area. We have not received any encouragement in these years. But of course we are extremely demographically threatened, we have an extremely ageing population, the ageing index in the Holy Trinity, for example, is 130, 135 and so on. Of course, there is a whole range of such areas — a colleague living in Haloza — that could also say many things — that have occurred to them a great injustice. For example, municipalities in this area have signed up for the invitation to tender for so-called market kernels. We lost him just because certain municipalities in this area have received a few more points in the case of European funds and we have lost this matter. We had a fully standing invitation to tender. Thus, the Code of Presmur on the one hand has caused great injustice to areas bordering on the Presmur law, which are more difficult to access, which have worse conditions, significantly worse. Council Ana – only a hilly area, no possibilities for any industry, only tourism. Holy Trinity, for example, Churchman and so on. For example, the Church is right on the border, Yuri near Ščavnica is still in the area of this law, the Church is no longer. So 300 meters away is no longer valid. What I'm trying to say is, you have to insist. Some people have used this law for their own interests, and not all others can be victims of all these acts. Prekmurje needs all of this and, of course, all other regions with even worse operating conditions need it in all areas. I think that even Kočevje, which borders Croatia – there people cannot work in Croatia because they have worse incomes, have worse chances. It is quite the opposite; there, for example, the Croats are going to work across the border because the wages are at least a few ten euros higher than in the comparable area of the Mountain Kotar. The white landscape mentioned several times by my colleague Trček, an extremely poor area, needs some encouragement. And here I also have to agree with my colleague Webro, who explained how to proceed with the law. Is this the umbrella law on promoting coherent regional development? Yeah, that's the answer for me. For me, this answer is plus what we talked to the Secretary of State yesterday or before yesterday about the fact that the country is also trying to regulate these areas that are demographically threatened in Slovenia with a regulation. We've got big problems. For example, from the area I mentioned earlier, Slovenian Mountains, young people who go to study in Ljubljana or Maribor are no longer returning. Older people over 70, 80 years of age are left alone on these farms. These are small farms, much smaller than the Slovenian average. We have some industrial zones and we would need a law like that in Prekmurje, or, as I myself have suggested, that these congregations join. Unfortunately, since we have statistics that unemployment is not 17, 18% of us, this is impossible. On the other hand, there are constantly fewer active employees in this area, more and more older, fewer and fewer young people leaving, and more and more who might be in the institution and reach this standard of unemployment or more, and move out of this area. And what are we gonna do? Is this the future of Slovenia? Is the future of Slovenia in that certain areas have some incentives, the money has appeared very untransparent, we also have – colleague Horvat has started a bit earlier – we also have the biggest affair currently with Seaway, Seaway Yachts. They don't know where about €6 million has gone, €9 million is about money, $3 million is worth investment, we don't know where it is today. Of course, it's not just about this law, it's about European funds, about certain machines, everything else, so we don't mix things up; but there are very strange things going on, and the result is extremely low-income people for the money we put in the Prekmur region. Let's be realistic! This does not mean that I will not vote for the extension of the law myself. It would be very unfair for people in Prekmurje and from this area. But it's always a question, all the money for every such law that we've ever drawn up, is part of the policy, part of some bureaucrats, part of that money, which the colleague used to explain about some of the contracts involved in the preparation of the project and so on. The bureaucracy of all this money, which should go directly into projects, directly to promote competitiveness, directly into businesses, people, employment, remains. Big sums of money are just red tape. And this is the great feature of Slovenia. Not just this law, most of these laws. I must admit that I see a solution for this area and perhaps for other areas only in some purely different European policy, and this is what I said at the beginning of this mandate. If I am alone in some position as Prime Minister, the first law that would be is the immediate constitution of the regions. To ensure that the strategy for each region is set by its people, those who take power in these regions are the other pillar that we are missing. It should be borne in mind that Europe is Europe's next major project. This means that Štajerska – Slovenian part works in the field of economy, agricultural policies, tourism and everything else with Austria's Štajersko, Kočevje with Gorski kotar, part of Primorska with Furlanija-Julija Krajina, Austria's Koroška with Slovenia's Koroška and so on. This is what the characteristics of these regions are; this is how I, as a Member, as a politician, would represent Slovenia in the next 15, 20 years. So, strong integration in tourism, strong in a small economy, strong in top-ranking manufacturing products with high added value. We need a whole kind of policy to do that. This is where it starts. Not what we do now: always ad hoc laws for ad hoc problems. But we never look at the anaemia where the basic problem is, where we have some extensions. Prekmurje has nice extensions: it has an extremely good geostrategic position, has connections, railways and motorways, in the field of logistics we have not done anything this year. In neighbouring Austria, close to Graz has been created in the last 10 years by large, truly multinational logistics companies, already taking over this primate and Prekmurje is losing here. Prekmurje could be in agriculture, tourism in terms of the use of geothermal energy in both the economy and tourism. Of course, the space and conditions for the development of large logistics companies, we can say that in Prekmurje there are those who are absolutely prioritised and here I see also in this area of operation. So the time that it was, and that money that was thrown away, was a lot of money for very little effect. Let's be real, let's get some clean wine. As I said at the outset, I support Prekmurce, most of them are not responsible for the fate she has experienced, these are the wrong policies of the last 20 years in this area. Now is the time for us to slowly start looking, completely turn our heads and look for other policies. These policies are consistent regional development of Slovenia through the establishment of regions, integration of all these regions in cross-border projects. These regions will form their own specifics, see in some of their SWOT analyses their opportunities, their dangers, their advantages and their shortcomings, and on this basis Slovenia will be able to begin to develop in a coherent regional manner. With the ad hoc projects, Slovenia will never develop regionally, I think that also colleague Trček as a prominent specialist, as a sociologist of space in this area, could still use a word because, at least in the sense of sociology as he knows, he might somehow broaden my debate with knowledge of this area. But this is all how I personally see the development of this area. Since I believe that even when this law expires, I think it will be extended, that is that Members and Members will decide, I am sure that we will not achieve some great results. We really need roof marriage, part of money and then this money has to go to people and to projects, this money can't be spent, most of it in terms of bureaucracy, which is so specific to Slovenia. This is my final thought about the so-called Premur law. The results, as I said, and the statistics show that the money that is still in this law has been very badly spent, very poorly spent on real jobs that are created, which will be long-term, competitive, which will also be solid or well-paid. I think we've got very little for this money. But that doesn't mean we won't support the law, this extension. Of course, in the end, let me remind you once again that there are other areas in Slovenia, such as the Slovenian Mountains, Haloze, Kočevsko, Bela Krajina, which are particularly threatened by demographic threats and which need now and at this moment some assistance from the country in order to be able to develop evenly and in a sustainable manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. With all due respect for knowledge and behaviour, however, we have on the agenda a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Development Support of the Pomurska Region for the period 2010-2015. Please, if you take this discussion a little more correctly about where the border is, Gorski Kotar and so on Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally, Dr. Runczek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u106	As an expert in this area, however, I must object. My nephew just put the matter in a broader context and I don't see why I shouldn't do it. After all, he's got a minute in his client and I don't think this note of yours is in place. Therefore, my procedural proposal is that you allow this debate, which is both substantive and absolutely necessary. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u107	I did not interrupt Mr Breznik, but in the end I had a slight comment that it was not true that within a minute; and here, of course, the minute is something that is absolute. [[…]] Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, please prepare Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I also welcome the Development Support Act of the Pomurska region. However, since the white landscape has been mentioned several times, allow me, given that I am coming from this region as my colleague Trček, to also touch on these topics in this debate, because the white landscape next to Pomurje, Podravje and Zasavje is also recognized as one of the four development problem areas in the country. However, as Mr Trček will then point out in his parliamentary question, the level of implementation of development aid based on the legal basis of the country's balanced regional development, which was intended for the Pomuri, was less than 5%, while in the case of Pomuri, it was more than 50%, more precisely 58%. So much for the effectiveness of Slovenian development policy. While the massacres and other areas of development concern no doubt deserve a similar priority treatment as the Pomurje, this should include a specific law. As we have previously found, we do not have this happiness to limit to Austria and that we can go there, cross Croatia and there is a completely different situation. On the other hand, the Gorjans physically distance us or directly cut us off from our homeland. Therefore, the construction of the third development axis is a necessity for us and there is no luxury in any way — yes, the Korosks are also sneezing. Danfos also moved his production to Slovakia because of the difficult availability of transport, and so again we lost an additional thousand 300 jobs. It should be noted that employment in the region has decreased by more than 40 % since 2005 and that unemployment in the White landscape is around 20 % in April 2015. But if I return to this mentioned development aid: the promised millions in the Colossae are not arriving, the jobs of the land, the economy is dying, the transport infrastructure remains unbuilt and, you will not believe, in 2015 many villages do not have water. The white landscape is unique not only in Slovenia but also in Europe, because it is the only region that contributes more to the state budget than it gets back. At the annual level, we contribute between €95 million and €110 million, while we get back 80 million to $90 million. In short, I completely avoid that the underdeveloped region is funding developed regions. This would also suggest thinking about whether we want to extend the Pocolpje programme by 2020, as without it, the region will not survive. To conclude, I would like to point out this; my colleague Trček spoke about the need for a national development strategy that would not be just a dead letter on paper while taking into account all aspects of the country's development, not just economic and not just at the heart of the country. The country is not only Ljubljana, so are we. Unfortunately, our country does not currently have such a strategy, but it urgently needs it. But how can it begin to be realized if we have renounced our monetary policy by entering the euro area, by adopting a fiscal rule we have renounced our fiscal policy, by saving our public health, education and culture, and by privatising state-owned enterprises we will lose the last lever of effective development policy? Let us keep this in mind, for next time in this Chamber, government representatives will explain the development breakthroughs, but at the same time they will sell our important companies to foreign speculative funds regardless of the price and all the consequences. Well, then, of course, we'll say that we don't have anywhere to go and that there's no money for urgently needed investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Margareta Guček Zakošek, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Because I would like to operate on comparable numbers, as far as the Crop that is not today is concerned, the remaining areas are not the subject, but I think I have a duty to report. In fact, the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region of EUR 33 million represents a certain percentage of 264. And in this part we draw almost 60 or use up to the end of 2014 60 and 57.8%. I'm warning the same thing. It's true of Pocolpius. The total number of contributions to the Pocolpje, which was planned or envisaged for aid, is EUR 287 million, but EUR 262 million is foreseen for road infrastructure, so the third development axis and tunnel through Gorjance – nothing has been done here. From the coherent regional development programme, which we run at the Ministry, which provides EUR 20 million for Pocolupje, the percentage of use is approximately the same, 55%. This year we have 3 million at our disposal and for the second year we have 2.1 million more, the rest has already been available to companies. The Ministry plans an additional 10 million by 2020. That's the plan. This means that together the Colosseum would receive 30 million from this programme. Of course, we cannot speak to our ministry in this sense of spending now, why road infrastructure has not been invested as much as was envisaged in this programme. So from our work we talk about roughly the same consumption, as a percentage, 20 to 30 million. I would like to touch on the possible use of these total 264 million, mentioned by Mr Breznik, who are not actually within the competence of our ministry, i.e. only 33 million. 90 million is available for infrastructure, it is the supply of drinking water to Pomurje; finally, Pomurje gets clean drinking water. I don't think we can say here that this money could be given to businesses, because infrastructure is the basis that the economy can function at all. The second part, however, is 40 million for restructuring and increasing the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry. It is meliorational measures, irrigation measures, flood protection, changes in orchards’ intendedness, etc. Thus, of these 264 million, 130 million are not those that could be allocated to companies. You mentioned social entrepreneurship, but I just said we haven't practically distributed anything from this work. This I think is wrong, because in this work Slovenia can do a lot, but let's not say socialism now, let's say a special way of working in the economy. Last but not least, this includes a partnership that has no social connection. I hope that we will also, within a certain period of time, adopt the Cooperation Act and allow such a way, let's say, more opportunities for entrepreneurship. Currently, this is almost not available in Slovenia. At the last presentation, we have heard that only 1% of companies are in so-called cooperatives, but they have certain benefits, and these are mostly agricultural cooperatives nowadays. But this is the wrong way to understand; cooperatives can be real businesses in all directions of action, in the service sector, where each member has one voice and then – the difference is said to be, profits are not paid, investments are made in the development fund, to create new jobs that are also much more permanent than in other companies. So I have to argue here that it's not just that part of capitalist, let's say, that we know. I would also like to touch the advisory contracts, etc. I think it is the wrong thesis or, let's say, a statement – Mr Breznik, I must oppose – that most money is used for administrative matters, for advisory contracts. It's gone, and that's not what it was. It is true that in the beginning the government founded a government office with one secretary of state, seven co-workers who did so, but they were not paid from this money that went to Pomurje, so the whole money went to Believe that we now have a claim that we have certain derogations in this direction, but I believe that it will not be any more, and that this money, in particular now in the last package of two million, will indeed be distributed to businesses. [[…]] But I can say that, indeed, interest, Mr. Horvath, is great. At the moment, we got 102 applications for these two million, of which almost 60 were essentially good. That is why we are referring to the Members' request to extend this law because the interest is and also the conditions for helping businesses are. Therefore, I believe that the statements that we spend most of our money on administrative matters may not be correct, and I believe that the pomurs know that they can benefit from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša. Mrs. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u112	President, thank you for your word. Hello everyone from the Ministry, new secretary of state, colleagues, colleagues! We will absolutely support the marriage in the parliamentary group, and personally, we will support it. However, it is necessary to ask a few questions or make a history of what has happened in the past, and that similar mistakes will not be repeated in the next two years, where we have a little less, if I have read correctly, 14 million euros, which is not so little money. More than once, it has been said today that the Pomur region is one of the least successful regions according to statistics, and unfortunately the indicators are poor, and we also have some positive data. Above all, I am pleased to note that we are seeing an increase in the number of companies. In 2013, a thousand 724 worked, compared with the year 2012, a thousand 683. At the same time, however, the number of independent entrepreneurs has decreased, and I suppose that some have decided to leave espo, especially in a different form, mainly in part. It saddens me that in 2013 business results were poor in companies, from independent entrepreneurs and cooperatives. They recorded the loss, but not at the expense of worse economic activity, but mainly due to the weakening and write-off of financial investments, which also recorded bankruptcy proceedings or forced settlement in 2014. Some of these cases, especially Mura and Pomurka, have already been mentioned. From this we can see that larger companies have a significant impact on unemployment if they are unsuccessful, which means that we need to focus more on setting up or helping small, medium and micro enterprises, including independent entrepreneurs, because there is a lower risk and then more dispersion. That's how I think the future is in the SMJ. It seems important to me that the criteria and criteria may be stricter as well. Otherwise, this may mean an additional administrative obstacle again, but today we have heard quite a few negative examples of spending and we need to think perhaps in this direction too. I don't want to find out when we're doing the analysis in two years' time that these abuses were the same as in 2015, 2016, 2017. I agree with Mr Horvato that it is necessary to start thinking about amending insolvency law. We have mentioned this many times in this place in the National Assembly, and something will have to be done absolutely. Whenever there is money in the game, we must ask ourselves whether it has been used effectively and meaningfully. Not only is money being spent, to say the least, we have successfully spent 264 million euros, but where this money has gone. This is how I welcome all the debates that have gone this way. Finally, let me read some more successful stories that we will not always be negative, namely, there was a 4th in the evening. 6. published article on export buffers. Exporters such as Radgons' companies, Arcont, Var, Eldrad International, Lzómerski Farmateh, Lendavian Varis, Murskosobaske Pomurske mlekarne and Puconska Kema and some others are breakers when it comes to economic recovery. In recent years, the final business outcome of the Pomeranian companies shows almost €21 million net net net profit. This means that knowledge is possible, that positive results are also possible and that we must move on in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. What Mrs Potočnik said was what I wanted to say. Thanks for that. I think the effects of this law are also positive, not just negative. I'm just going to complicate it a little bit, and my colleague Breznik warned me that this isn't the law on Prekmurje, if we call it, then let it be the law on Pomur. Namreč, Pomurje is made up of Prekmurje, Prlekija and part of the inhabitants of Radgona, which is considered to belong to the Slovenian Goricas, and the Apache Valley. Radars, I have to say, but they're in Prlecia, which makes them like the whole of Pomurje. Well, given that this law was adopted also when I participated in 2009 and then entered into force in 2010, I must admit that I was very much in favour of this proposal and that I was very much involved in the drafting of this law. Of course, I do not think it is appropriate for such matters to have taken place at the time of the implementation of the law that were not in the law's honour. However, the authorities responsible in the country will say whether it is as some have estimated or not. Therefore, let us leave matters to the competent authorities. With regard to the specific audit that has taken place with regard to the implementation of the project relating to this law, this is the Pomur water pipeline, I must say that the special audit has denied matters which have been in the public eye and that the implementation of this law and the project of the Pomeranian water pipeline has proceeded smoothly. When we talk about the total amount of the pomura water supply or the pomura law, about 264 million, we still have to say that this is not the same thing as adding the amount and then dividing it by the number of unemployed. Look, there's only a 140 million-euro pomor water supply here. Any citizen, whether Prekmurec, Prlek or a member of the Apache Valley, probably deserves to have a healthy drinking water in his apartment or house in 2015. These assessments are slightly different from those presented during the debate. If we make a section of the operation of the waterworks, we can quickly find out that 57.6% has been realized in these years and that we expect the rest to be realized in 2015 about 4 million and in 2016 and 2017 around 9.6 million euros. In any case, the dynamics are such that it is possible to carry out this matter. Looking at 2010 and all the years so far, there were between €2.9 million and €4.5 million of annual implementation of the law. If I hadn't come from this area, I might have been thinking something else, but this time I'm actually driven by unemployment-related issues. So let me say that there are still 20.8% of the unemployed in Pomour. In any case, I'd be glad if I could in other parts where it's so high. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice welcome to the new team of the Ministry, the new secretary of state, who is very optimistic about this law, which is also right. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the things that we also highlighted in 2009 and were largely ignored and later proved to be very reasonable warnings. At that time, this law was presented as a major development opportunity, aid, development support to the Pomurska region. At that time it was said that this was a continuation or an example of good practice of the Court. However, we or some Members had already pointed out that the approach was definitely different and that there was no special office for the development needs of the area, but that there was a project office to remedy the damage after the earthquake, and no one then listened. Later, it turned out that this office, which was established under the law of purgatory, was significantly more detrimental than some originally expected. On this basis, these poor experiences have also been investigated by other authorities and not by the National Assembly over the past four years. At that time, however, the comparison between these two laws, which were a special law for a particular area, showed a significant difference. In the case of the Court, all these tasks were carried out by existing regional agencies, existing institutions, when we are talking about development aid. In the case of Pomurje, it was in some way trying to move some know-how from Ljubljana to Pomurje, which we had already advocated at that time was nonsense. As I said, the comparison of individual items, especially in the part where the documentation was discussed, on the preparation of certain projects, on this pear support, were the figures of about 10 times the numbers that were then applicable to the implementation of individual segments in the case of the act, which was a model for the preparation of this Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region. This law, which is before us, and this two-year extension of this law is in some ways meaningful, because not half of the objectives set out in the basic law have been fulfilled. After statistics, a number of things have evolved, but it is necessary to know that many of the major projects have been set up before the law of Pomur – specifically what Comrade Jurš said about the water supply. These were all projects that had already existed, which had been prepared and which had only actually been incorporated into this scheme and in some way increased this recovery or the realization of this law and in some way demonstrated this as development support, but this was not really because this sectoral policy, which was carried out in terms of water supply, had been realized in some way before, and the law of Pomur has not helped this much, but it has been packed into this story. There was also much talk about an opportunity to give priority to certain programmes through this law. However, experience from other problem areas, such as the Triglav National Park, and some laws that also talk about the priority treatment of certain programmes show that this is not the case. The fact is that we can adopt a number of such individual sectoral laws that will favour an area, but until, in fact, the whole country has sufficient development potential, such laws will also not help to accelerate the development of an individual region, which is not least reflected in all these statistics, which do not differ significantly from other regions that have similar problems in terms of development opportunities. Last but not least, we have a lot of time in this country under the Harmonised Regional Development Act, which actually covers all these segments, which we then define in some special law. In fact, beyond this basic problem that this country has, that there is not enough resources in terms of financial resources for individual measures, we cannot. The adoption of a separate partial law for a particular area is only in some way a political game and sand in the eyes of an area, and in fact, given that there is no financial resources, such a law does not in practice contribute to any faster development of an individual area. This is also shown specifically in the case of the Court, where, despite the fact that the matter can be well thought out and some programmes contain large numbers, but later there are programmes that actually provide a fifth of the funds than this, and of course we all wonder later why certain things do not go faster. The same applies to the law of Pomur, and as a result this proposal is also intended to extend its implementation for the next two years. I think it will also be difficult in these two years to provide additional resources that would allow for faster development of this area, because, in view of all the pre-preparation so far for drawing on the new financial perspective, it does not show very well, since until 2017 nothing shows that any of the funds from this new financial perspective will be available. That is why this law will depend in particular on budgetary resources, and we will again come to a situation similar to that of previous laws that we have dealt with, especially the Water Act, where there has been a lot of talk about how we need to support some changes in legislation and this will improve some situation. However, this will only improve the situation if funds are also provided for individual measures. And here we are again before the dilemma of what the National Assembly will do when we have the budget documents on the table and when certain financial resources will have to be provided for the Pomur law. Otherwise, we can discuss and find out each month what is good, what is not basically good in the implementation of this law, but we are practically not doing much to make these results and developments in this area any better.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Since I don't have much time, it'll be more in the bulletins. The messenger before me, Comrade Krivec, spoke very nicely and visually about the issue and its core. After all, as mayor, he was involved in the earthquake reconstruction of Soča. On the other hand, Mrs Potočnik expressed some ideological substance of the SMC, which I am somewhat appalled about, but because I read the interview in Jana Dobovška, which says that Miro Cerar does not have much knowledge of finance and economics, I am not surprised. What am I talking about? Small, medium and micro enterprises – this is the future. I'll do it again. In some respects – yes; but if you go to see the analysis, and don't turn my eyes now, a little statistics read by scumbags, these companies create a minus. If we want to have a national economy, and I will obviously have to repeat it until I am sick, Slovenia needs a dozen, up to two dozen companies in the Kolektor category. Enterprises that create a billion cash a year, or go from half a billion to billions that employ a thousand, two thousand people who bind grapes within certain activities. Why? Because these companies are capable of internal resources, with a healthy financial situation to finance and generate development. 70% SMJ will never be able to do that, and let's stop blinding ourselves here. These are the foundations of the national economy. If they do not teach this in economic universities in Slovenia, so much worse for Slovenia and for these economic colleges. I had to say that. One thing. Comparatively, some regions will always be less developed than others and there will always be a region that will be least developed. That's how it is. But the key question, of course, is whether these differences are shrinking or these differences are growing. I will be very happy if we say in the next term, yes, the Ljubljana urban region is somewhat lagging behind, the other regions are catching up. I won't have any problem with that. One thing: yeah, we have money for infrastructure. As a person who also deals with urban and such, different technologies, I always see that we are not thinking too much about what content we will put on this infrastructure. My nephew mentioned it a little bit. We're electrifying the track to Hodosh, I don't know, I don't even care which ministry, when the secretary of state said, "This isn't the responsibility of our ministry." You are part of the executive branch of Slovenia. I don't even care how you shop there. I wonder, however, whether we have any literature with Hungary, that it will not travel from Budapest by train to the end of the world if you are going to Maribor; or that you will not still wait on the train from Zagreb to Shentilje for those locomotives to be replaced and so on. These are also some things that we actually have to deal with. If I touch Prekmur – geothermality. I have provoked the government a little bit with questions about why fracking, why not geothermally, if studies show that there is one geothermal energy reservoir there, that some companies that deal with fracking have some technological knowledge to deal with something else, that no one will say that I am now an economic stimulus leftist destroyer. Some incentives in agriculture that are often encouraging to buy a tractor, that's what people in the field are telling me. I've been to Denmark, I've been to Bornholm Island, and that's where every one of you has a mechanical community. We had it once. When are we gonna start thinking about this? Development agencies – let's stop this under the rug. We read the Court of Auditors reports that regional development agencies should often play an intermediator who deals more with himself – to some I am unjust, I admit – than to actually do what we set them up for. We will have to face these issues somehow, and I agree with what Dani has said, but we need to develop the development potential of the whole country. And there's always gonna be too little money in the budget, but if we're just gonna hang around here, what I've been listening to for the last few days, there's no money, and then let's just turn it off and let's go. Plus, what Bojan here says is that the legislature should adopt and write laws. We are the slaves of the executive branch and this must change as well. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Franz Ly, get ready for mag. Bojana [[…]] Replica, please, Mrs. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you. I'm glad Dr. Duck loves me so much and likes to address me, but I just want to explain that he misunderstood me. I wanted to say that in the Pomur region, we have a major problem with two of the collapses of large companies. That is why I see a solution more in promoting small and medium-sized enterprises and did not deal with statistics. But I'm glad that you're so current with all these economic indicators, Dr. Duck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Franz Ly has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I can see that there is a great deal of knowledge in this hall around and in relation to the economic situation of Pomurje, I am delighted. Allow me, however, to begin by thanking all those former and present Members who have gathered so much courage that this law has also been confirmed. Because if not, we can only wonder what the situation would be today in the region, even though perhaps some of the awkward things were happening at the beginning, both of them. However, I expect all the competent services to do their work as soon as possible with regard to the identification of irregularities and that those who have misused these opportunities should also be held accountable for their actions. Murje is currently a region of modest opportunities and great opportunities. If we look at her geostrategic position, this has already been said today, we will say that there can be a great advantage. Also local development potentials, which unfortunately cannot possibly come to life, so that they can also be used and given jobs in Pomura. The fact that Pomurje has these development potentials is not enough if the business environment is not friendly, friendly to domestic and foreign investors. This is the only way to activate everything and make use of it for our own good. Let's just see how many large former industrial complexes have been abandoned. These are currently falling and are only causing costs, even to the state. I can even mention some of these from my place, this is the location of Nafte Lendava, who unfortunately, instead of offering work to at least a thousand working people today, there are only a handful of them there. There was a lot going on; people, capable managers, drove from Ljubljana to our places and wanted to prove how to work. Unfortunately, we have come to a very sad end. All right, let's drop it. This is said to be the most important thing for the state to help create a truly business-friendly environment that will activate all of this and all of these resources will start to produce positive economic and public financial effects. There was also much to be said about the unemployment rate. Indeed, at the level of the region, the unemployment rate is currently around 19,1%. However, if we look at individual areas within the region, the situation is almost tragic. For example, the second largest municipality in Pomurje is Lendava, and we currently register a 24.1 percent rate of registered unemployment in the municipality. Can you imagine what this social tension is like in these areas? The problem is still that, due to job shortages, there are markedly strong negative demographic trends, trends. Young people are leaving, and this highly educated, the population is getting old, and if these trends do not stop, there is only one sad image of Pomurje. I hope for better, so I also support the extension of this law, and I believe that the projects that deserve it will be supported during this extended period. This means productive projects that will certainly contribute greatly to improving the current situation in Pomura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello again! As I presented in my position, in the past there have been some irregularities concerning the implementation of the Pomurska Region Act. In particular this government project office, I think it was a big slip and actually throws a bad light at something that could work properly and well. I absolutely agree that all areas at risk must be assisted. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, Pomurje is not the only endangered area. I am also coming from an area quite similar to Pomura, although it is true that the unemployment rate there is not so high, namely Haloza, which is also dealt with in some government procedure. The key problem is why this is happening, I'll just say, in the centralisation of the country, unfortunately. And then we hear, as a fellow SMC said, that they have a 25% unemployment rate in Lendava. These are awfully high numbers. I believe that this would not have happened if we had been a little more decentralised. This, of course, causes, as mentioned, young people leaving, but mostly young people leave because there are no jobs nearby. And it was the jobs that were the key, crucial objective of this law. If we go through all these measures, we actually see that some measures have shown or show some results and are going in the right direction. Measures concerning incentives for employment, tax incentives for investment, but we must be aware of something; tax incentives for investment, that must be something that applies to the whole of Slovenia. It is right to recall that in 2012 we did something in the time of the Janša government that we today have a 100 % R & D relief and that we have a 40% facility for investing in equipment, which, of course, is also an incentive for all areas at risk. It is true, however, that further measures must be taken for such areas – what was done here. I know that there are very good companies in Pomour too, they have a very positive example of a foreign investor at the end of them, and it would be good if there were more, so maybe we could focus more on these measures. However, the biggest problems were, of course, those measures relating to the priority treatment of the programmes referred to in point 4 in the law itself. The problem, I think, is that unemployment in this area is not falling, despite the fact that we have invested quite a bit of money in this end, it is obviously far too small or misused. Unemployment at the end of 2009 was 19.6%; 20.4%; and, if we look at it, this year is from 21.4% in April 19.1%; of course, it varies monthly in Pomurje as well as elsewhere in Slovenia. I would really like to, and I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has pointed out that similar irregularities will no longer occur. So maybe just one hint: think a little bit about what else we can do in this law now that we have actually only his first hearing today, there will be a second hearing on the parental committee, on the Committee on Economics and then on the National Assembly. Let's think about where we could actually limit the fact that it wasn't some kind of money leak. What we have already pointed out, what has already been exposed to the adoption of the law itself, is mainly these advisory contracts or various project tasks, or what is stated here in this law, we have spent money on some intermediate evaluation of the programme that was given to the external operator. I see no reason why such an evaluation programme should, of course, be absolutely necessary, why an external contractor is needed here. It's a consulting company, and if you put a little bit into the Supervisor, you see a lot of it working with the state. I can't assess the quality of their work, but I believe you have enough people at the Ministry who can do this evaluation on their own. It may also be appropriate that, if the assessment is a good one, it would be easier for all other Members to take any additional action on this basis. Finally, this law will continue to apply for the next two years and it is appropriate to do our utmost to ensure that this money is also spent effectively, used for what is the purpose of this law. This means for new jobs, what is crucial and what we also want to do is actually help these endangered areas. As has already been said, we support the extension of this deadline in our Group because we really want to help this end. We are really helping ourselves to develop Slovenia in the same way, because unfortunately we have too many differences between regions, so of course we will support this, but at the second reading we would like to accept perhaps a change in another article, where we would actually limit what has happened in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Now in this first part it is the government's turn, please, Mrs Mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Some things have been exposed, and I may try to answer them, although this is not a much closer topic to deal with today's law on Pomurje, the remaining problems of the areas being tackled by the Law on Harmonised Regional Development. We are aware that both Haloze, Goričko, Kozyanska, Bizeljska, Notranjska, Tolminsko and Bovsko areas, which are problematic, do not fall into the so-called problem area due to lower unemployment than 17%. There is a demographic problem here, there is real emigration, population ageing and the same about jobs. We have been thinking about addressing this issue in the context of border problem areas, based on Article 24 of the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development and the Regulation on the establishment of restricted problem areas. We will endeavour to address certain of these problems, allowing some of the measures, such as a specific quota in public calls, European calls or more favourable conditions and criteria for projects in these areas. As far as further relief is concerned, it is either employment or tax relief, there is nothing I can say here, because, in fact, it is necessary to coordinate interdepartmental matters here. However, I can say that we are thinking about this and that, in essence, the integration of the economy and other service activities in the cross-border area is also successful; so is Slovenia – Croatia, Slovenia – Austria and Slovenia – Hungary, in this sense also some European projects. Once again, the law has not achieved the goal of reducing unemployment, but let us once again see that in the course of this law, only two companies were lost if we consider the first part of Mura, almost 4,000 jobs, and today we have a thousand 500 more than at the beginning of the implementation of the law. That is how I personally think that certain unemployment objectives are achieved by the law. Perhaps Mrs Potočnik or Mrs Potočnik commented on the 2013 data, where companies still had a net loss, we can say that 2014 Apes showed net profit in Pomura, almost 30,000 euros, and then net profit increased by 20,000 euros and the number of economic operators increased. This is a curve, let's say whether the trend is in the right direction, but I agree that certain measures in terms of the environment for businesses need to be improved, changed, and the Government is working on this. Less money spent on bureaucratic purposes; once again, I must say that the matter was essentially closed in 2013 with settlement, proceedings were initiated in 2012. I believe that we will no longer have to address ourselves in the past, not least today we are in the middle of 2015 and we are moving forward, so the optimism that Commissioner Krivec has given me, I am happy to find it. After one year of operation, I think that's exactly what we need, is optimism that we can move on and do better. As for changes in the law, I am not sure whether those articles are open where this could be changed – Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko. It is necessary to examine which articles are currently open. If the Ministry considers that this is the right step, it is said to limit consumption for any purpose of studies, an assessment outside the Ministry, I can say that I support it. Of course, I need to get to know more about the problem, this work. However, I believe that all documents are publicly available to Members, so I propose that anyone who wishes to see any of this interim evaluation turn to us and, of course, this will be presented to him. I would conclude by saying that I am happy, as I can see, that all Members support the extension of this legislation, and I personally believe that this is necessary. Companies may only now be able to understand how we are doing this, and they can register and use money, because we know that the initial periods are always difficult, there is always a lot of red tape in this system, and it is those two years that can be crucial, and therefore we certainly propose that you support the amendment of the law and the extension. And we at the Ministry will do everything we can to get close to the people and businesses that operate there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. So, all the reported debaters got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please apply with a raise of hands. We're starting the application. Danilo Anton Rance has the word. He's got five minutes for every debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u128	President, thank you for your word. A nice welcome to the government, too. I wish her a successful job. Perhaps I could speak a few words about this law on the Pomur region. You yourself agree to the polycentric development of Slovenia and I think this is a practical example of an attempt to apply a law in terms of equal development of the Slovenian state as a whole. In this respect, I fully support the country's similar approaches to addressing these problems. In particular, I think we are fortunate to have a good team at the Ministry of Economy, which somehow sees this problem of uneven polycentric development and gives great importance to such laws and also stresses. I would not concentrate because there are several different regions in Slovenia that are underdeveloped. It may have been in the past that in some regions we might have had a little more in fact to make a marriage, but it's no big deal. However, if this law were not in place for the Pomur region, we can imagine that unemployment in this region would be much greater and worse. I would like to draw a parallel with the infrastructure development of Slovenia, which has very close links, as well as synergies and multiplier effects on the development of the regions. For example, if Prekmurje was not associated with infrastructure with the central region, I think the effects of this law would be much smaller. I myself had the opportunity to visit the mayor of the municipality of Odranci, who presented his successful project, I will not now appoint companies, but he made it clear that if there was no road here and if there was no support from the law for Pomurje, this company with 400 employees would not be there. Let me say that this is the smallest municipality in Slovenia, but also, of course, with the largest income per capita, and it is an example of good practice how to achieve positive effects with different effects, with various measures, that of course Slovenia develops evenly. I would therefore like to point out here that I support such a law, as well as the ministry's work in this direction, in order to strengthen it, to make the Ministry of the Economy even stronger, because in the past it has heard a number of funny comments to give this ministry a chance to join the Ministry of Finance. I think it is right to strengthen with similar projects and to strengthen and essentially become the ministry driving the economic development of Slovenia as well as the polycentric development of Slovenia as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! You know, the pomurs are kind of made that we're embarrassed to ask for help. Probably a lot of you, too. Of course, we are grateful for this law, but we would be most pleased if in Slovenia, as I said in the delegation's position, a balanced, coherent regional development normally worked. We just haven't been able to take that away, as we call it. We're just not good at this. Look, this is a time when people are watching us, and a gentleman called me earlier, who said the following — which we all know — that we do not really need help, but we need what Mrs State Secretary said; we need a good business environment and we need a little less inspection, ladies and gentlemen. What's been going on lately, I don't know whether it's everywhere or just in Pomure – that's insane! I also know about the cases in my village where a young entrepreneur said he wouldn't take over the plant, and he's a great shop, and he's going to go to Austria to work. It will earn 2,000 euros and will live peacefully with its family, not that within four months of taking over the company, it has paid 9,000 euros in fines. This is insane, ladies and gentlemen! Or maybe there's an inspection, and he says, "Listen, take care of it, you've got one week, we'll come see if you don't, I'll write you a fine of 2,000 euros." What's happening right now is, I guess now all those who have been employed at customs have come to some inspection services and are now "wrong". I'm first in line in the country, I'm first in regular, fair paying taxes, that one who abuses who cheats that one should get on his toes, but I don't support inspections, not inspections of production. The inspector himself says they've received an anonymous report. Why is that? It's the envy! That's why. It's a typical Slovenian specialty. That is why here, Madam Secretary of State, dear former colleague, I am very pleased when you said - and I think that our communication here will be very relaxed and, above all, effective. I'll keep you informed when such anomalies occur, and probably my colleagues and colleagues. Let's give here what I know, some real measure to take, create these inspections, not actually for some inspectors – I will not say all of them – but it also applies to municipal, medo-Chinese and regional projects to actually stop or actually paralyze development. We're just not gonna let that happen. I really don't. It is very important, and if the government has enough time left, it would be interesting to hear a timeline on how this law will actually be implemented. If it is accepted, I do not know, at the September session, when the first call is made – something has already been said by the Madam Secretary of State. And one more thing! See, now this law will apply 2016 and will end 31. 12. 2017. How are the payments going to go? Will the project, which may now, theoretically, be approved by the 31st? 12. 2017, can you pay in 2018 or not? What's it gonna be like? Here I am very interested in whether there will be a principle as well as cohesion projects – you know, this is plus two – where this year, 2015, we need to complete the projects from the previous financial perspective, which has ended in 2013. Of course I'm very interested in that. On the one hand, it gives this law, but of course we also have laws in Pomour or government regulations that they take. Last year or during the government of Alenka Bratušek, we identified and looked at direct payments schemes for farmers and pomur farmers will receive between 7 million and 8 million less direct payments from 2015 to 2020. From 7 to 8 million less. So we have to sort of sum all these things up and then figure out the net effects. And another thing, sometimes when we fear foreign investors, we have great domestic companies in Pomour. These are not daytime flies, they are on the ground, as they say, or on stage for a long time, but mostly new jobs are provided by foreign investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u131	The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u132	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Representatives of the Ministry, nice greeting at today's meeting, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have on the table a proposal for a law amending the Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region in Resistance 2010-015. Why? Because we have simply failed or the Pomur region has failed to draw on all the funds earmarked for this region. The rest is around – therefore, out of €33 million, half of these funds have been spent, perhaps a few million more in this year, leaving for 2016 and 2017 an additional €9 million. In this debate today, I have heard a lot of constructive proposals, I am pleased to hear that all the MPs of Pomur and, of course, we also supported this proposal, which we will support today in the first reading or tomorrow in the vote and then in the September session, as my colleague Horvat said, we also confirmed as in the second reading. Let me point out the five key instruments highlighted by this law. The first instrument is the promotion of initial investment by businesses and the creation of new jobs; the second instrument is the promotion of human resources development; the third instrument is social entrepreneurship; the fourth is the promotion of the region to attract foreign and domestic investment; then finally the fifth, support in the preparation and implementation of regional development projects. I would like to point out in particular that third instrument, social entrepreneurship, which had only two calls, and only three projects were approved. There is still a great deal of potential that we would have to make easy use of in these two years, which we are now extending. With the assistance of that fifth instrument, support for the preparation and implementation of the development projects of the region, I think it is crucial that companies that will apply and will apply for these calls will receive some assistance, assistance in the preparation of these project documents, as we can then extend this pomur law in 2017 for another 2 years if the funds are not spent, or for one year or whatever else, and we will not achieve an impact if, of course, they are not properly supported in that region. That's why I'm always a proponent of saying that money shouldn't wait for papers, but vice versa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide whether a proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, 15. Seven. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. AT THE TIME OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON Acquisition AND TRANSFER OF PARTS OF HUMAN BODIES FOR HEALTH, IN THE context of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Health, Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u134	Good afternoon. Hello, Madam Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body is adopted following a regular procedure. At the initiative of Members, a general debate was held in May and it was agreed that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, amendments were prepared which were adopted by the Health Committee and were mainly of a nominal nature. The proposal for a new law primarily seeks to ensure the quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation and to lay down conditions for the smooth legal exchange of organs at the level of the European Union and European authorities for the exchange of organs with a view to reducing the risk of abuse or even trafficking in human organs. The objectives are also the requirements of the European directives, which we transpose into the Slovenian legal order. Thus, Directive 2010/53 EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation and Commission Directive 2012, 25/EU on procedures for the transmission of information in the exchange of human transplant authorities between Member States. Another novelty passed through the law relates to the area of consent to a donation in the case of deceased persons, stipulating that any person who is able to decide on his or her own treatment may accept or oppose a donation in writing during the course of his or her life. The definition of giving is a novelty in the matter of giving. We are also correcting the disputed so-called supposed consent by means of the bill, so that the removal of parts of the human body after death is now possible only if the donor has consented to a gift for the time of life, or if he has not been identified as a gift during life, the person who died is notified of the gift. If this person agrees to the withdrawal, it shall be carried out, but if he disagrees, the withdrawal shall not be carried out. However, if those near death cannot be obtained, the seizure shall also not be carried out. The preparation of the law was carried out in cooperation with Slovenia as the competent authority in the field of transplantation in the Republic of Slovenia. Since 2000, Slovenia has been a member of the international network for the exchange of organs and tissues of Eurotransplant, which consists of seven other countries in addition to Slovenia. Participation in the large transplant network is also extremely important due to the relative smallness of Slovenia, as it provides solidarity assistance to the network in emergencies and helps to improve the outcome of transplants. We would like to point out that the transplant treatment system in Slovenia is fully transparent, professional and clearly defined by national legislative frameworks, which clearly show the ethical imperative and protect against the abuse of both donors and recipients of tissue organs. I would like to thank you here for such support for all of you Members in the adoption of the law, which we are very happy to make a better and safer health system in the Republic of Slovenia together. And given that no amendment to the amended bill has been tabled, we propose that a third consideration of the bill be made at today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u135	The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Branko Zorman to submit the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u136	Honorable Prime Minister, distinguished Minister, Ministry team, colleagues, colleagues! The Health Committee shall meet at its sixth regular session of 24. 6. 2015 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body due to treatment submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and reception. The Committee took note of the following material: a proposal for a law published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 2. 4. 2015, by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 9. 6. 2015, opinion of the Ministry of Health on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 17. 6. 2015 and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of 22. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Nina Pirnat, put forward in a supplementary explanation the main solutions to the bill and cited the main reasons for the new system law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr. Samo Dijak, stressed that the comments of the ZPS were given a written opinion by the Ministry of Health. He noted that the drafter cited the adopted Directive 2010/45/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation, which requires Member States to harmonise national legislation with European legal rules up to 27. 8. 2012 and Implementing Directive 2012/25 of the European Commission on procedures for the transmission of information in the exchange of human transplant authorities between Member States, to be implemented by Member States in national law by 10. 4. 2014 and that both of these deadlines have already expired. Specific comments to each article were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. Representative of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Mags. Stevo Ščavčičnik stressed that the Commission supports the proposal of the law. The debate raised the question whether the drafter also aligned himself with the Commission on Medical Ethics, in particular in the area of parts of the body of the deceased embryo. Slovenia is a signatory to the Ovied Convention, the Convention on Human Rights in the field of biomedicine and its additional protocol on the transplantation of human organs, which bypassed the rights of the embryo as the Protocol does not apply to the organs and tissues of embryos and foetuses. For ethical reasons, parts of the body of a decommissioned embryo should not be allowed to be taken away in the event that pregnancy is allowed to stop. Since euthanasia is prohibited in Slovenia, further regulation of the prohibition of transplantation of organs from euthanised persons is unnecessary. At the beginning of its cooperation with Eurotransplant, Slovenia agreed not to accept the organs of euthanised donors, so it does not even offer these organs of Slovenia. The amendment of the coalition's parliamentary group, the United Left and the NSI were tabled within the time limit set for the bill. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and the Committee did not adopt amendments to the United Left and NSI groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u137	Since the assembly held a general debate at its 8th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place tomorrow, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. Seven. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the agenda, this is a draft resolution on the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Action for Health 2015-2020. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mary Milojka Koral Celarc, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thanks again for saying that. Nicely greeted! This path is ahead of you Resolution on the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025, by which we want to improve the eating habits and increased physical activity of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. In this area, Slovenia has already done a great deal, both in the field of healthy school nutrition, the introduction of preventive programmes and approaches within the health system and in raising awareness of healthy and balanced nutrition. Nevertheless, we find that there is an increase in obesity, chronic diseases that are unfortunately becoming a real epidemic. It has been shown that they can be better prevented by healthy lifestyles, nutrition, and more movement. The management of these diseases requires an integrated approach and is organised both by countries and by all other stakeholders. We are also driven by changes in the environment that are visible at every step. Unhealthy food supply dominates health and food advertising with a high sugar content, salt, fat is very aggressive, and there is also greater physical inactivity. The great variety of food supply, in the absence of time, represents a more difficult choice that requires a well-informed consumer. Thus, energy-rich food and more and more daily sittings have an impact on the insufficient amount of daily physical activity and the occurrence of obesity. This is particularly worrying for children and adolescents. Therefore, the reason for action is more than enough, and I am pleased that we, together with the other ministries, have prepared a comprehensive resolution on the national programme. This represents a strategic and comprehensive framework whereby we want to improve eating habits, increase physical activity from the earliest period of life to the late age. It has specific and measurable objectives that we want to achieve and thus stop and reverse the trend of increasing the weight of the population, affect the low incidence of chronic infectious diseases and consequently the sustainability of the health system. Maybe some information about that. At EU level, data show that the costs of obesity-related diseases represent around 7% of the total expenditure needed for health care, amounting to approximately €100 billion at the level of European countries, without including indirect costs related to poorer productivity due to health problems and premature death. In Slovenia, we estimate that the direct cost of healthcare for only diabetes, which is about 7% of the population, is at least €114.3 million per year, which is almost 5% of all the funds available to our health department. If we do not act effectively, the number of patients will increase by about 3% each year. Let me also add that last year, compared to 2010, the consumption of cardiovascular medicines increased by 5.2%. The annual expenditure on medical bills was therefore over €80 million. Therefore, the Ministry of Health will endeavour to ensure that the national programme and the measures contained therein will not remain a dead end on paper, but that they will be fully brought to life. As Minister of Health, I will seek additional financial resources because we know that preventive action and investment in a healthy lifestyle is the best and most effective long-term investment that will come back to us. Therefore, by adopting this resolution, we will lay the groundwork for systematic action to halt the trend of excessive weight gain, reduce the incidence of chronic diseases and consequently reduce health costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u139	The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Health Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The Health Committee is at its sixth session of 24. 6. The draft resolution on the National Food Programme and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and for its adoption, was considered by the mother labour body on the basis of Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee took note of the following material: the motion for a resolution published on the website of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of 22. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, presented the main orientations of the motion for a resolution in the supplementary explanation and stressed that the resolution proposes a number of measures, which are also within the competence of other ministries and bodies. To this end, an Interdepartmental Working Group will be established. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Saša Bricelj Podgornik stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups largely remove the comments expressed in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. However, some editorial improvements will be needed in the final text. Representative of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Mags. Mr Ščavčičnik stressed that the Commission supports the motion for a resolution. The Commission also proposes to include as many stakeholders as possible in the preparation of the implementing objectives. Non-governmental organisations are important in this regard, and in particular the involvement of all representatives of the social partners. Nor does the resolution emphasise the need for active support for employers in the implementation of individual measures. In particular, account should be taken of the achievement of the objective of the supply and demand for health of useful and locally produced food. Some critical concerns were expressed in the debate about the text of the motion for a resolution, namely that the literature and resources are not exactly listed, and the tables, the list of abbreviations is not complete, the text cannot explain how, when and by what means of the European budget, the proposed objectives will be realized. Some members of the Committee were of the opinion that the objectives of the resolution were well stated, but that real life was different and that some efforts would have to be made to achieve them. The Interdepartmental Working Commission will have a great deal of work to do in coordinating and coordinating all operational groups and programmes. Within the time limit set, the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups tabled amendments to the indicator, the introduction to the second chapter, Chapter 4, Chapter 5, Chapter 8, Chapter 10 and Chapter 11. The Committee voted on the amendments and corresponding chapters to these amendments and then on the other chapters of the motion for a resolution and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. The supplementary motion for a resolution is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u141	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u142	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The first national food policy programme was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia 10 years ago, and as a result, we have before us a new proposal for a resolution on nutrition and physical activity for the next decade, which we will support in the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats of course. Health is of great value and preventive measures must therefore be accessible to all citizens and to all citizens. So each individual is responsible for a healthy way of life. But when an excessive weight and obesity problem occurs on the one hand due to unhealthy eating, insufficient exercise and occupation, malnutrition and fragility are common among the elderly, adults and patients. Malnutrition and lack of physical activity contribute significantly to the burden of chronic non-communicable diseases and to the cost of medical bills. A few positive changes in the population have been achieved through more frequent breakfasting, increased olive oil consumption and increased body activity, especially among women. The resolution is a very ambitious programme that will require the concerted operation of several ministries to ensure that the objectives, such as increasing the proportion of breast-feeding children, increasing the proportion of physically active children, reducing the proportion of obese children and adults, reducing the intake of salt, sweet drinks and sweets, as well as increasing the intake of fruit and vegetables, are also realised. Of course, the implementation of those measures is also linked to the general well-being of the population. The economic crisis, unemployment and other hardships affecting the population are strongly linked to the proposed objectives of the resolution. Quality and organic food is not cheap, which means that every citizen cannot afford it in Slovenia. We also still import a lot of vegetables and fruit. Due to complicated procurement procedures, farmers of the Slovenian crop are difficult to sell or compete with. As a reason for insufficient physical activity, adults state a lack of both money and time. The faster pace and the more activities to be coordinated are an ever-increasing challenge. We see the motion for a resolution in New Slovenia as a renewed effort to once again take one step in the effort for the health of the population with the desire to ensure that as many citizens as possible have a healthy spirit in the healthy body. We will therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u143	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u144	Dear Vice President, distinguished members of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for a resolution on the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health for the period 2015-2025 will be supported by the Modern Centre Group. We believe that the motion for a resolution provides for an integrated approach to improving the eating and moving habits of citizens, including all age groups. The measures focus on a number of long-term or strategic goals in the field of nutrition and physical activity. This is a reduction in the proportion of the population with excessive weight, an increase in the share of the physically active population, an increase in the consumption of balanced healthy food, namely vegetables, fruit, fish, whole grain foods, a reduction in intake of saturated fats, sugar, salt and the introduction of a number of other recommendations and guidelines with international professional application in the field of healthy lifestyles. In this way, the system guidelines and levers are being developed to stop the trend of weight gain in Slovenia and thus the associated higher incidence of chronic diseases resulting from unhealthy lifestyles. The proposal also provides for measures to reduce differences between different social groups, which, depending on their economic and social status, are subject to different health problems resulting from poor nutrition and lack of physical activity. An important contribution to the proposed national programme is the integration and coordination of a number of actors supporting and thus opening up new opportunities for cooperation in areas such as temporary agricultural policy measures, measures aimed at sustainable development and sustainable mobility, measures defined by the national sport programme, tourism development measures and others. In accordance with the guidelines introduced by the draft resolution on the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health, we want to be a healthy, long-lived and physically active society in 2025. We will therefore, of course, support the proposal for a resolution in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u145	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. The National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for the period 2015-2020 identifies key challenges, visions and objectives in the field of nutrition and physical activity in all life periods. In Slovenia, various documents have already been developed and adopted in the past that have identified strategies for reducing chronic diseases due to inadequate nutrition and poor physical activity. With guidelines for healthy nutrition in educational institutions, we have achieved healthy and balanced meals in schools and schools. Similarly, it was done in the field of student nutrition. Various incentives to improve eating habits and increase physical activity were also intended for adults and older people during the third life period. The national programme on nutrition and physical activity that we have before us today is therefore a logical continuation of the resolutions and guidelines we have so far in this area. The management of the current national programme is a lifelong approach that seeks to empower an individual during all life periods and to facilitate decisions and choices for healthy nutrition and regular physical activity through key mechanisms. We agree that a healthy lifestyle, including healthy nutrition and physical activity, must be accessible and accessible in order to improve health, regardless of socio-economic status, gender or age. So far, strategies and implementation have helped to improve our cardiovascular condition. However, the incidence of cancer is forecast to increase by 3% annually in diabetes patients, and the incidence of cancer is worsening, as we have seen 40% growth in men and 30% in women over the last decade. We therefore hope that the new national programme will enable improvements in the field of cardiovascular disease and other diseases associated with the impact of nutrition and physical activity, and that intersectoral coordination will also work fully in this regard, or that the Ministry of Health will also be aligned with other ministries. This is the only way to achieve the objectives of all the priority areas recorded in the national programme. This is followed by principles: health in all policies, accessibility and accessibility, reduction of inequalities in health, ethics – if I only list the most important principles. The National Food and Physical Activity Programme 2015-2025 also identifies objectives and measures across specific areas, but there are no indicators to determine the effectiveness of the implementation of the programme. In our opinion, the measures are also written more generally, with words such as 'implementation', 'guarantee', 'examination' and so on, and nowhere more specific is it written how we will implement the measures. There are also many results in terms of the production of brochures and printed material, but we believe that we should go beyond this because previous resolutions have defined certain brochures, printed materials and such a way of promoting a healthy way of life. Perhaps we should move forward with concrete performances, with greater support or further support for sports classes – not for sports classes where really top athletes are enrolled, but for those in primary schools where increased physical activity is promoted both in schools and in primary schools and in the third life period. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the National Programme on Food and Physical Activity 2015-2025, but it should be noted that the national programme proposed in the National Assembly has been very badly written because it has experienced a lot of criticism or many corrections by the Legislative and Legal Service. Various comments were also made on the Committee's proposal. A large number of corrections have been requested, as we have also experienced, and we have an updated and revised resolution following consideration by the home committee. The financial definition of the national programme is loose, and for certain activities it is not even defined all the funds. Even more; funds, at least according to the resolution, are not provided for certain matters, as it is stated that the funds so far are not sufficient for an ambitious plan. We only hope that the national programme on nutrition and physical activity will experience all those objectives set out in the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u147	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u148	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister and her team! A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! The proposal for a resolution on the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity seeks to achieve strategic objectives based on the definition of ten priority areas, which are linked to reducing the proportion of people with excessive body weight, physically inactive, fed and functionally less capable older and patients, reducing the intake of unclean fats, sugar and salt. At the same time, it wants to increase the proportion of those who regularly eat breakfast, eat fruit and vegetables, and the proportion of infants who are breast-feeding. A well-known fact is that healthy nutrition and regular physical activity are among the key factors in protecting and strengthening health and contribute to better quality of life. During growing up, they provide optimal growth and development, improve feeling and work performance in adults and contribute to active and healthy ageing. This is also known by the World Health Organization, which is one of the priority themes of nutrition and physical activity. The whole European Union is also dealing with this problem, as only by effective measures to strengthen and maintain health will we be able to better manage the burden of chronic diseases in a long-lived society. The Ministry of Health estimates that in Slovenia the direct cost of health care for only diabetes, which has about 7% of people in Slovenia, is at least EUR 114.3 million per year. If we do not act effectively, the number of patients will increase by about 3% each year. It is gratifying, however, that more and more people are aware of the importance of a healthy diet and an adequate amount of physical activity to maintain both physical and mental health. This can tell us already a glimpse of Slovenian streets, parks and forests, as more and more people are running, bikers or otherwise physically active. Nevertheless, there is another extreme — that is, people who do not take advantage of a healthy lifestyle because many do not have the right information and incentives from around them. At the same time, we must honestly acknowledge that sport and healthy nutrition have become quite expensive, which means that a number of healthy diets and dietary supplements due to high prices cannot afford them. This was also evident when we discussed the possibility of introducing a sweet drink tax, when one of the arguments against the sweet drinks tax was also that it would affect the socially weaker, who mostly, due to the financial possibilities mentioned, interfere with unhealthy food and drink. On the one hand, we face the problem of excessive weight and obesity due to unhealthy eating, insufficient physical activity and, on the other hand, we often witness malnutrition and fragility between older adults and patients who consequently represent a higher number of hospitalizations. This means that we must encourage not only young but also older people to live a healthy life, offering them every opportunity to maintain our health and vitality for old age. The management of the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health until 2025, which is coordinated by the Ministry of Health in cooperation with several departments, is a lifelong approach that we want to propose during all life periods and help individuals. We will support the resolution in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister and her team, colleagues and colleagues! The vision of the new resolution on the National Programme on Food and Physical Activity for Health for the next decade has been to create conditions and create an environment that will improve the eating and moving habits of our people, reverse the trend of obesity and reduce the incidence of chronic non-communicable diseases. The measures provided for in the resolution are aimed at supporting the sustainability of the health treasury and creating conditions for equal opportunities for health. It is particularly important to point out that the resolution also largely takes into account the needs of vulnerable groups, as the objectives are set in a way that takes account of the different social status of the individual who is to benefit from the measures imposed on him. Special emphasis is also placed on local sustainable care and self-care, with Social Democrats seeing an excellent opportunity that will have a multiple effect, access to healthy, locally produced food, increasing the productivity of Slovenian agriculture and the economy, opportunities for new jobs and more employment, the development of social entrepreneurship and other socially responsible practices. Slovenia currently does not cover its needs for agri-food products through domestic production, so ensuring food security is an important strategic and political issue. Social Democrats have long been reminded of the importance of locally produced food and of ensuring an increase in self-sustainment, as we have also expressed in our Government's mandate by adopting a Resolution on the Strategic Guidelines for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Foods. In recent years, it has been noted that the Slovenian consumer is becoming increasingly aware of the importance of home-made food and its impact. Once the food is finished only at home, the Slovenian farmer will also be appreciated. This will benefit all in the production chain, including the country. For the Social Democrats, the quality life of all people is a key asset that must be protected as a public good, accessible to all. Public education, health, social protection, culture, sports and technical culture form the backbone of the Slovenian people, the people have developed these functions in order to provide solidarity for the welfare of all individuals and individuals. Slovenia is a State of social solidarity, the health system must be in the service of ensuring the health of all individuals and individuals in all components of physical and mental health. Preventive health care is therefore very important. Human health is a key condition for equal access to social processes, knowledge and performance in the labour market and in social processes. Social Democrats are advocates of a new policy towards the human body and the spirit, policies aimed at fully meeting human needs as a biological being, focusing on individual responsibilities for personal health, but with a broad and diversified public health system that will ensure equal opportunities and accessibility to quality health services. Improvement in human health is determined by the distribution of economic well-being in society, by the development of social support functions and investment in people, by the degree of development of social assistance available in society, by the degree of mutual respect and equality among people, by the degree of stress at work and at home, by the safety of the working and natural environment in which people live. Many individual health risk factors, such as smoking, alcohol or drugs, are also socially conditioned. For this reason, the Social Democrats are committed to increasing the equality of income distribution in society and thus to reducing differences in human health, living standards and the quality of life of people from different social groups. We advocate equal accessibility from all sources that can help to preserve, support and restore human health. Social Democrats will continue to advocate funding for health care according to the wealth capacities of individuals in society and the distribution of health services according to the health needs of people. We stress that the responsibility for human health is also the responsibility of each of us. We therefore promote a healthy way of life, nutrition, movement, balance in human physical and mental development. To a certain extent, the decision on health is also an individual’s free choice. The proposed resolution on the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity will be supported by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Vice President. Hello, Minister. The resolution on the National Programme on Food and Physical Activity for Health, which seeks to affect the health of the population through eating habits and recreation, is encouraging for the health of the population and especially for agriculture. The proposed text processes the link between diet and physical activity and human health, defines the objectives and purposes and the way financial resources are implemented. However, remember that the success of such an action requires an integrated approach, a sufficient interconnection between the various sectors of the country and their interlinkages, and remembers the ethicality of such action, and is particularly aware of the need to reduce inequalities in health between different social groups. All of this should be designed primarily for better health and thus for greater well-being of people. In the United Left we are convinced that locally processed healthy organic food is important for the development of Slovenia, not only because of its impact on health, but also represents one of the development potentials of agriculture and the economy at all. With relatively unpolluted nature and small, fragmented farms, agricultural areas, the low rate of self-sufficiency is also a new source of employment. Environmental farming is a synonym for high quality and safe food with rich nutritional value and high vitamins, minerals and antioxidants. The demand for organic processed foods is increasing by 10% per year, but the level of national self-sustainment with them is high. Finally, organic farming has a much lower carbon footprint than conventional farming. The resolution also speaks of the guilt of salt, sugar, fat, etc., which is the result of poverty. However, the resolution is too ambitious when it promises better health as a result of healthier nutrition. In particular, he tries to arouse bad conscience in individuals because of individual unhealthy lifestyles. While human health is partly dependent on their diet and driving habits, they are much more affected by the socio-economic environment imposed on them by the authorities. Unemployment, fear of unemployment, poverty, difficult working conditions, bullying on the job, the idea of how a wage earner will spend the month and similar training measures of neoliberal capitalism have a far greater impact on the health of employees and the unemployed. This proves all Slovenian and world studies. A more important cause of poor health is psychosocial stress as a result of neoliberal capitalism and fear of survival. Stressing a poor lifestyle as a culprit for a poor individual’s health is simply avoiding the responsibility of the State for wrong development policies and promoting a poor individual’s conscience. A resolution that opens only two aspects of health is based on a very outdated understanding of health. First of all, because it is based on a biomedical concept of health, which underlines in particular physical, physical characteristics, while other health factors, particularly social, which essentially determine the health of society, underestimate – I am not saying that it does not speak of them. The resolution is not based on a comprehensive understanding of health as defined by the World Health Organization in the 1990s. This draws closer to the concept of human well-being or quality of life, which also asserts the responsibility of the State to create health-friendly environments, while the resolution overemphasizes the outdated belief that the individual is responsible for his own decisions, what food he gives to the mouth and how much he spends a week in the exercise. Her flaw is elsewhere. The resolution that fights also mentions the issue of inequality. Right here we see in the United Left the biggest obstacle to healthy society. As a result of poverty, more and more people daily deal with the question of how to provide enough food and quality and not even think about buying more expensive, organically grown food and directing their physical activity to search for any kind of employment. The United Left welcomes this resolution, while stressing that the government and all ministries must focus more on preventing poverty, inequality and exclusion, as it will do much more for citizens' health. This is not a fiscal rule, income for the richest, increasing the money for NATO and similar non-social measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u153	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place in full accordance with the time frame of the meeting tomorrow, 15. Seven. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of dangerous goods under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u154	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law contains in particular the amendments necessary to harmonise the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods with amendments to international regulations in this field, in part concerning the appointment of safety advisers and the provision of anti-moving cargo and the fulfilment of the conditions of the authorised organisations for the inspection of vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods. This requires a change of law. The law also provides that authorised vehicle inspection and driver training organisations shall be selected on a public invitation to tender. The text of the Act regulates competence for the field of radioactive substances and specifies the general designation of the authorities responsible for certain areas. In addition to the above, the proposal contains amendments related to the monitoring of compliance with the provisions of the law, thus ensuring that the law is implemented in an appropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u155	The proposal for a law was considered by the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Board as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr. Igor Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u156	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee shall be held at its 10th meeting, on 24. 6. 2015 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. Amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups were tabled within the deadline. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Grebenšek, stressed that the objectives and main solutions of the draft law were to align the text of the law with the amendments to the international rules governing the transport of dangerous goods, to provide that the authorised organisation for vehicle checks and training of drivers is set out in the invitation to tender, to specify the general designation of the authorities responsible for the field and to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the law and to ensure adequate control. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that most of the comments were mainly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, while some additional clarifications were provided by the applicant. Mr Verbic, President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. The Committee adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u157	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor of the modern centre's Parliamentary Group, for which again Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thanks again. The purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods is to implement international rules, in particular the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, which regulates the carriage of dangerous goods. The draft law regulates the obligations of participants in the transport of dangerous goods, provides for additional anti-movement insurance between the driver's duties, which is important for reducing the consequences of accidents, and the appointment of a safety adviser for the transport of dangerous goods. The Law also introduces new innovations concerning the appointment of safety advisers, since, in accordance with the European Agreement and in accordance with the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, professional training of national professional qualifications advisers is regulated by a safety adviser/consulter for the transport of dangerous goods. The draft law lays down the conditions to be met by the authorised inspection organisations for vehicles carrying dangerous goods, vehicles shall comply with the requirements set out in the Annexes to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, the so-called ADR, with the authorisation of the professional training organisation of drivers for the transport of dangerous goods and the issue of certificates of competence to be determined on the basis of a public invitation to tender. The law further provides that the authority to issue a form for the review of vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods from the Ministry of Internal Affairs shall be transferred to the Ministry responsible for transport. The competence and designation of the authority responsible for nuclear safety for the transport of radioactive substances shall be regulated. It is also supplemented by the competence of the inspectorate responsible for the supervision of traffic regulations, as well as by criminal sanctions if the authorised organisation conducts checks on vehicles or provides professional training to drivers for the transport of dangerous goods in contravention of the law. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the proposed law provides greater security for participants and general safety in the transport of dangerous goods, so the proposed law will be supported by the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u159	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u160	The proposal for a Law on the transport of dangerous goods is coordinated by the law in force with the amendments to the international European agreements. They shall regulate the transport of dangerous goods by means of regulations so that authorised vehicle inspection and driver training organisations are identified on a public invitation to tender. It further mentions the designation of authorities for specific areas, enhances the effectiveness of the implementation of the law and provides adequate control over the law itself. There have also been some concerns on the parental committee about a relatively long transitional period, which is 5 years from the entry into force of this law. During this period, the Minister will designate authorised organisations for the inspection of vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods and for the conduct of professional training of drivers. The applicant explains that it is necessary for the current authorised inspection and training organisations of drivers to obtain all the necessary accreditations and that, after the transitional period, these organisations will have to recommit themselves to tender. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u161	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With amendments and additions to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, which lays down the minimum conditions to be met by all involved in the transport of dangerous goods, the law in force shall be in accordance with the amendments to international agreements. The amendment proposes to select dangerous goods vehicles for the public tender after the new authorised inspection organisations. One part of the amendments is also intended to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the law or to ensure adequate supervision and to indicate the general designation of the authorities responsible for certain areas. At the time of consideration of the bill, we had concerns in our parliamentary group about a relatively long transitional period of 5 years from the entry into force of the law, in which the Minister will determine the authorised organisations for the review of the suitability of vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods or for the professional training of drivers for the transport of dangerous goods. The applicant has satisfactorily explained to us that a slightly longer period for switching to a different way of selecting authorised organisations is set because the current 4 authorised vehicle inspection organisations or driver training are authorised with an indefinite period of validity. An additional reason for the longer transitional period is that an authorised organisation must carry out checks on vehicles carrying dangerous goods of accreditation obtained in a specific and slightly longer procedure. If any new organisation wished to obtain new accreditation, it would allow them to participate in the public tender for a longer transitional period. The Desus Group will unanimously confirm the proposal for a new Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u163	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u164	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods provides for four substantive sets: firstly, the text of the law is aligned with the amendments to the international rules governing the transport of dangerous goods in work relating to conditions and training for the acquisition of a profession as a safety adviser. The law provides that authorised vehicle inspection and driver training organisations are to be designated on a public invitation to tender. Furthermore, the law takes into account the recommendation of the International Atomic Energy Agency and therefore specifies the competent authorities for the field of radioactive and nuclear waste and provides for better supervision of the implementation of the law itself, transferring part of these tasks to the financial administration of the Republic of Slovenia and carrying out part of the tasks of the inspection which is responsible for the field of transport. The Group of Social Democrats estimates that the proposed changes are more or less technical changes, so we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u165	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u166	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Any accident caused by the transport of dangerous substances can cause great damage to the environment, to the whole of life and especially to the lives of humans. Therefore, there is still a need for the greatest supervision in which the greatest qualified experts have to participate. The proposed amendment to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods is so welcome as it strengthens the conditions for authorised organisations to carry out vehicle checks and train drivers for such transport. We are talking about the transport of dangerous goods by various means of transport and we are talking about the minimum conditions that all involved in transport must meet. Nor do international regulations in this area allow for derogations and lay down in detail the conditions for the classification, packaging and labelling of goods and the conditions to be met by means of transport which carry such goods. In New Slovenia, we will support the amendment and the amendment of the law by reducing the risk of accidents in the implementation of these transports. What exactly does the novelties of the law bring? Firstly, the selection of organisations to be empowered to inspect vehicles and train drivers in a public tender. Secondly, the temporary or permanent withdrawal of powers from these organisations if they fail to carry out checks in accordance with the law or if they do not meet more conditions, therefore they no longer have valid accreditation to check in accordance with the standards and the authorisation may also be withdrawn if the professional training organisation does not carry out in accordance with the law itself. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law entails additional necessary mechanisms to prevent risks in the transport of dangerous goods. In view of yesterday's tragic traffic accident on the coastal highway, we will also support the Christian Democrats' proposal for a novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u167	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place tomorrow, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. Seven. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 41 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order for asking questions shall be set in accordance with Article 244, paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the questions at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, apologized today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. First of all, he'll be asked the question of the message. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you for your word! Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the Seventh Force, I am gathering a very nice greeting to all! The story of the Privatization of Telekom is already dragging like a yoke of snakes and the outcome is still uncertain. But whatever the outcome is, it will certainly be at home and especially abroad, as it is also a commitment given to European institutions as well as to some financial institutions, to evaluate the whole process of this privatisation and to analyse from different perspectives. One of the analyses will certainly also be the transparency of the process itself and possible conflicts of interest. There is a somewhat unusual situation in Slovenia. When we look at who's involved in the Telekom case, we run into a stockbroker's house. One of them, this is Ilirika, is also publicly boasting on his website. When we get to the specifics of Slovenia, the situation here is that, in fact, as far as we can check, we do not meet anywhere abroad. At least not in democratic countries. That service, which is responsible for monitoring and collecting information on the sale of strategic legal entities in Slovenia, is Sova, headed by a person appointed by your government, Mr Cerar, and this person has an extremely large share in one of the stock exchanges houses, along with a woman far from the largest shares in the mountain stock exchange house. From this point of view, the question arises whether you were aware of this at the time of your appointment and whether it has increased its share during this period. And if anything, Europe draws attention to the issue of conflicts of interest. I do not say that anyone has already violated the law in this case, but I am sure that when the procedures are assessed when transparency is assessed, this will be assessed in terms of European standards, including in terms of possible conflicts of interest, where it is already a matter of appearance. And here the institutions can draw attention to this problem. So I'm asking you a question: Do you believe that, from the perspective of European standards for the avoidance of conflicts of interest, the proper appointment of Zoran Klemenčič was at the head of the Owl? Is the current situation appropriate, and do you think that when the analyses and assessments of Telekom's ownership are carried out, that this will not be the point at which foreign institutions would point us out?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u169	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u170	Dear Mr Grimes! Director Sove Mr Zoran Klemenčič and his wife are not involved in Telekom's sales processes, nor do they have any authority in this regard. Of course, I will now talk about Mr Klemenčič, who is the director of Owa, because I do not know his wife and hardly say anything, nor would it be appropriate to comment. But I am very surprised by your question in this direction, because you yourself have just found that there are no indicators, no indicators that any of the two persons you mentioned would have committed any violation of the law or any irregularity. At the same time, you suggest that there may be violations of certain European standards. We should explain to me which European standards would be relevant here, in your opinion, in order to be able to determine whether any of them could be breached. But I am sure that the director of the service you mentioned does not interfere with these procedures by carrying out his work in accordance with his or her responsibilities. That's why I don't see any connection here. Of course, it must also understand that, in relation to the work carried out by Mr Zoran Klemenčič, Director of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, I must be detained because it is an activity that is not disclosed to the public. So all I can say is that I don't see any facts, indicators or anything that would suggest that there might be a breach of any standards. On the other hand, you have already found out for yourself, and all I can say is that no such standards have been violated so far. So this concern about the conflict of interest, at least with regard to Mr Zoran Klemenčič, I do not think it is in place. Of course, if we could explain more, the answer may also be more comprehensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u171	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u172	Dear Mr. President of the Government! You are certainly aware that if something that the European Union and its institutions put in place, as well as some other known world institutions, comes first when it comes to persecuting corruption, it is to avoid any conflict of interest. Here things are perfectly clear and most countries consider this to be self-evident. In addition, this is indicated in many opinions, many acts. When it comes to issues of public sales, auctions, all those where the country is on one side either as a buyer or as a seller in any sense of the word, as an entity, with its companies, with their property against foreigners, of course foreigners also observe who is involved in this process. It is not only those who buy and sell directly that participate in the gathering of information. The situation as it is in Slovenia is extremely unusual and does not have a pair. As far as we can see, once again, I stress that nowhere in the world would there be a person at the head of an institution that collects confidential information about economic operators who would share in a stock exchange house at the same time. This is a matter where there is an obvious conflict of interest, regardless of how we assess an individual and his work. That is why this is a question for you, Mr President of the Government: Are you sure that this situation is appropriate in terms of European standards for avoiding conflicts of interest, and what will you do?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u173	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Let me repeat, I don't have any data at all. Nor have you served with any information, a fact that any indian would be convincing or bound in this direction in order to be able to think about any conflict of interest here. So I don't think there's a conflict of interest here. In particular, I must make it clear that the competence to sell Telekom is in the domain of the Slovenian State Holding. However, if you are implying that Owl obtains such information here, but this debate is totally inappropriate for this environment, you will probably have to explain it in some other context where it can be discussed. Otherwise, I'm afraid you're going to get over or maybe you've already crossed the limit that's permissible. Thus, I can only claim for once that, on the basis of all the data available, including those with which you have now served, when it comes to references to some related links, there is no indication that any corruption or, above all, a conflict of interest would be reported here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u175	Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u176	I certainly propose that the next meeting should discuss the issue of conflict of interest, because it is also obvious that the President of the Government is also dealing with misunderstandings about what Europe is warning over and over again through its institutions, and very clearly sets out to be a conflict of interest. It is a matter of access to information, but at the same time it is a question of where a person may be in a position to perform a particular function. There is no case and there can be no case that you will not find such situations as in Slovenia anywhere. In other countries, however, they do not exaggerate as in Slovenia, where, for example, Members should not have businesses or should actively exercise their role as owners, and then these restrictions result in people looking at us as if they do not know what we are capable of doing. But this is a question of an institution that has access and the right, the only one by law, to collect certain information. At the same time, it is on her forehead, and you are responsible for it, because your government has put it there, a man who has a stake, and that together with his partner is far the largest share in one of the stock exchanges. And this is an obvious conflict of interest. There's no problem here that anything has to be proved. This is not the case, Mr President, here obviously is the misunderstanding that anyone should be accused if they had any indication that it was a crime, of course, they should file an appropriate complaint. But a question is raised in terms of the foreign credibility of the State, the credibility of its institutions and the credibility of the procedures in which not only entities from Slovenia participate, but also entities from abroad. It opens this field to which it will have to be answered, whether and in which cases there is a clear conflict of interest and whether they were already at the time of appointment or are here today on the table of facts and different arguments for assessing that such a situation is not in line with what the European institutions expect us to do and which then affects business decisions, whether or not there are any infringements. Once again, when it comes to conflict of interest, it is not only essential what has happened, what is already important is appearance, the existence of someone in a function that has at the same time any personal circumstances, such as a share in a stock exchange house, which raises doubts about his impartiality, neutrality or neutrality, which is even worse, a country or an institution. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u177	Mr Branko Grims, on your proposal to hold a general debate on the issue of conflict of interest and the announced issue of the privatisation of Telekom, will decide on Wednesday, 15 July 2015, in the framework of the votes. The other asks Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! My question concerns the announced abolition of the 4th grade of income. 20 minutes ago, I returned from a meeting in the State Council, where we discussed whether it was possible for the government to provide an additional €6 million by 1 September so that all children living below the poverty threshold could receive free school lunches. The current situation is that only children living in families with less than 180 euros of income per family member are entitled to this subsidy, according to those who truly live in absolute poverty. And it would not take much, this year, €6 million, to ensure that all children living below the poverty line are not hungry in schools. On the part of the Government, we often hear that such matters are impossible. On the other hand, I am surprised to learn that at the end of June, the Ministry of Finance announced that it does not intend to extend the maximum 50% tax class at income on 1 January 2016. In fact, the finance ministry has announced that the richest – 0.34%, not the richest 1%, but the richest – 0.34% will give a gift of between 15 and 20 million euros. That is the 15 to 20 million euro that are now in contact with the state budget. If we divide this into numbers, we'll get the following information. These 0.34% of the people are the 3,000 662 with the highest wages. These are people who have a salary of more than 8,000 euros a month gross, which is more than even you have yourself, Prime Minister. And these people on average earn EUR 138 000 per year gross, and now they would receive between EUR 4 000 500 and EUR 6 000 per year from the country. Here I am really interested in why you, as Prime Minister, have decided for the benefit of these richest ones, according to the richest 0.34%, and on the other hand, we always hear that there is no money for the poorest, that there is no money for children, for example, money social assistance still remains on the shameful EUR 269 net per month, which is not even half to the poverty threshold, and in the same breath we hear that we have money to give to the richest ones, that is 0.34%, 15 to 20 million budget gifts, and that in the next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u179	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u180	Dear Mr. Moon! I'm not going to comment on the first part of your question, which was actually some claim that wasn't justified, but this is for a second discussion. I don't know where you found out. It'd probably be interesting to show you where it says it was said that I've ever said that we're going to end the 4th grade. I've never said that, and we've never made that decision before. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Finance has already discussed this possibility, at least in my opinion, because, as you know, the introduction of the 4th tax grade with a rate of 50% was established by the so-called Zuyfa, which was extended by the end of 2013. If the ministry is considering this, this does not mean that any decision has been taken. When the Ministry of Finance, whose competence it is to make such proposals, informs the government, the coalition, of this, it will offer an official proposal in this direction, if it so wishes, then we will decide on it. Politically and at government level, by all procedures. Of course, this will also be up to you Members if this happens. For once, you're really talking about something that's not really there. Let me just say this because it is a topic and subject that will deserve a very careful consideration in the coming months, that this measure will expire this year, and it will have to be decided whether to extend it or not. From this point of view, your question is above all relevant. The government is aware that the cost of working in Slovenia is very high, which is particularly problematic when it comes to highly qualified professionals, i.e. the labour force, if I so express myself, which is a lot of escape from us or goes abroad. Highly qualified experts, in whom our country has invested a lot through education, through all these processes, then withdraw abroad because they simply do not see this perspective as a result of such taxation. Reducing labour costs is necessary in some way, but it is necessary, at the same time, this is very important, also to take into account social justice, so that with some measure, when it is sufficient to retain the best experts in Slovenia, it does not unduly affect other workers in a tax way. In fact, the government here will strive to achieve some balance in some way. And this will also lead the government probably also, I hope, the National Assembly when this debate comes to light. Once again, however, this debate has not yet taken place at government level, the proposal has not yet been put forward and we are simply talking about some of the hypotheses that are, of course, worth discussing. We can agree on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u181	Port of the Moon you have the word to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u182	Okay, yeah, thank you for saying that. Given that this has already been announced somehow in the public eye, and since I assume that the government is acting in a coordinated manner, I assumed that you too have been informed that the Ministry of Finance is thinking about it. And that's why my question. My question is essentially in the direction of whether you support the abolition of the 4th grade. Now, if I may dispute your arguments a little bit, I agree that the cost of working in Slovenia is very high, but I think you are going to the wrong side of the problem. We are not talking about highly qualified professionals here, we are talking about 3 000 200 people with the highest wages in Slovenia, paid over EUR 8 000 gross. It would be hard for anyone to show me one graduate or one expert, one engineer with such a salary. These are usually management salaries, wages actually paid by those most responsible for the economic crisis we have in Slovenia. It wasn't the cleaners who invested themselves, but the managers were the ones who invested and who did business with businesses and banks the way they did. That's the first thing. The second is that the 50% income class is also not specific in the European scale. It is known by ten EU members; in Sweden, for example, there is a 56% tax, in Austria and in the Netherlands, and so on, depending on their GDP, it is significantly lower than we are. In our country, it is set at 70,000 euros, and in the Netherlands it is about 55,000 euros, and there it has twice as much GDP. That's why I want to know: Are you assessing such a proposal as meaningful, and why?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u183	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I was a little too fast. Mr. Moon, the government is acting in harmony. It is, however, the fact that, within the Ministry, as well as various professional groups, such as in the field of tax reform, we also have special experts preparing materials for ministries, different ideas appear and sometimes the media grabs them, then checks them and so on. But again, the government hasn't received any official material on this. As long as there's no official material, all things are hypothetical, possible, but we don't know what's gonna happen. Once it is, within the framework of the coalition, a decision will be taken within the government and then you will decide on it. I would point out, however, that among these, as you say, 3,000 200 people are also managers who are certainly highly qualified experts. It is true that such people are probably also involved in the financial or other aspects of the crisis in Slovenia. We are aware of this, but it is up to the competent institutions to decide who is responsible. But I don't think it's right to throw all these people in the same basket, they're all bad, all those managers, all those experts. On the contrary, many are of high quality and some distinction has to be done here. We are not for the rich to be allowed to get richer or to be so flattened, I would say, at the expense of the poorer layers they have anything. On the contrary, the government is also fully committed to social justice, but also to such a tax scheme, and this will also be the subject of future tax reform, where we will promote the competitiveness of the economy, where we will also promote the employment of highly skilled workers, so that these experts will not run abroad, where they can easily earn more, so that they can return Slovenia in the form of their knowledge, the efforts that the country has put into them and that we will be pleased with them all. Of course, there are other measures that may be explained below, if possible. However, let me repeat, the matter is not yet in any formal form, we can discuss it, but when an official proposal is put forward on the table, we will then take a clear position on the government and you will be informed of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u185	Luka Mesec, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Personally, as well as to the United Left, it seems, in essence, that thinking about going to the richest of burdens is problematic. Even in the light of what the government's actual fiscal targets are for next year. We read in the National Reform Programme that the government is planning the biggest fiscal effort in 2016. Public spending is expected to decrease by about €463 million this year, the Prime Minister of the Government has already started talks with public officials to save €310 million. Given the fact that there is savings everywhere in society, that we still have the problem of starving children in schools, that we still have the money social assistance of €269, it is said that it does not reach half the poverty threshold, it seems entirely inappropriate for us to talk about whether we will be burdening the richest or not in such circumstances. I think we need to discuss this and the general fiscal objectives of the government in the National Assembly, which is why I propose this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u187	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 July 2015 in the framework of the votes. The third question will be posed to the Prime Minister of the Government. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u188	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues, Slovenia is not yet on the safe side. If the economic situation in Europe deteriorates, then it can very quickly happen that Slovenia will be economically below the level. Current economic growth must not put us to sleep, as it is not the result of structural reforms or adjustments, but is the result of increased exports, particularly to countries that are economically sound. In New Slovenia, we want to make the necessary adjustments today when we are not under duress. Better today than maybe later when it gets a lot harder. But if we don't make these adjustments, then we can have difficult times ahead. The OECD recently carried out an analysis of the current economic situation in Slovenia and recommended adjustments to the changes in three sets. One of these is tax reform. In Novi Slovenija, tax reform seems crucial to us. With all these adjustments, tax reform can actually improve the business environment and lead to more jobs. What we may lose on the one hand by tax reform and by changing tax rates, on the other hand, we can get back with more jobs, i.e. with more contributors to state treasury. In order to further substantiate the need for tax reform in Slovenia, the fact that work in Slovenia is one of the most taxed among the OECD Member States also speaks. Not very encouraging information. In the interest of tax reform, it is also said that virtually every Slovenian or Slovenian who deserves less than a thousand euro net is treated as an extremely wealthy citizen who is taxed at a rate of 41%. These are all facts that speak in favour of tax reform. Our goal is very simple. We want as many people as possible to pay as much tax as possible. That's why I'm asking you, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government: What will you and your government do to reduce the tax burden on Slovenian citizens and when can we expect a difficult tax reform?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u189	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin. Of course, I do, and we probably want all of us to pay as many people as you can, as much as possible. The only problem is that, as Prime Minister, I have to include this in some real context of our options. Anyway, yours is going to be a little funky, and a little bit of it's going to be in my memory. We will certainly strive to try to relieve those who deserve it in the future and to burden those who also deserve it. Let me first conclude that Slovenia is generally below the average of the European Union in view of the European Commission's findings after tax burdens and contributions. That's why there's data that I'm not going to read right now, because that would exceed the time allowed. Of course, we deviate from the average of the European countries with over-average labour and consumption burdens and under-average capital burdens. This already shows where our options are. In part, my debate also went in this direction in the previous reply to the question, when I pointed out that the cost of work is too great for us. This is particularly problematic when it comes to highly qualified workers who can bring high added value and thus contribute to the competitiveness of Slovenia, and this option is largely hampered or prevented by such a tax policy. Of course, the Slovenian government, so the government is going against tax reform, we are preparing for tax reform. This will certainly also be the subject of consideration at the end of the National Assembly, so we will prepare it very thoroughly. At that time, we are already taking some steps that are going in this direction. We are therefore committed, on the one hand, to removing administrative barriers and, in particular, to increasing the efficiency of collecting public benefits. In this sense, this is one of the measures you know, and we are now gradually applying tax box legislation. On the other hand, it is clear that public benefits will have to be restructured or, for example, burdened with real estate – this is where this known possibility of real estate tax is offered – and, of course, we must, as I said, reduce labour burdens. This will open up opportunities that the government will explore and study. As far as real estate tax is concerned, you know that this matter is now being studied by an expert group at the Ministry of Finance, where external experts are also involved. There are problems that should have been resolved long ago, but they have not been – uncertain records, without which you cannot carry out tax reform in this area, because if you do not have reliable data, you cannot know what effect some property tax will have. These are many other matters to be taken into account in this context, such as a constitutional decision and many more. The government advocates such a tax policy that will promote competitiveness, which will at the same time ensure the efficiency of tax collection where they are and where the country will also want to be fair, by burdening people in the right way with their work, their social situation, so that we can also take people into account in distress, etc. In short, the reform is being prepared and I think that you Members will soon be able to participate in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u191	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u192	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! What you yourself have found to be excessively taxed work and consumption in Slovenia is also recognised by the OECD in its report, so I am convinced that we must do everything we can to defuse these two segments. How do you make up for a mango? I think that a certain deficit in the budget due to the restructuring of these taxes will lead to higher taxes, in particular higher consumption resulting from this and more jobs. That's a way to cover a lot of things. To be very specific. In New Slovenia, we have recently prepared a package of tax measures that addresses these two problems, namely how to relieve over-taxation and over-consumption. We have come up with a proposal to increase net minimum wage by EUR 50 by keeping gross wages at the same minimum, not increasing the cost of the economy, but increasing the purchasing power of people with the lowest income. I'm interested in your opinion on this proposal. We want to unload the middle class. I have said before that practically everyone who earns more than a thousand euros falls into the 41% income class. At €18,000, we want to move this to €27,000 to fall among the rich only when you earn more than €350 a month. Does that make sense to you? We also propose a different taxation of Christmas. Today, well-standing companies would like to reward their workers, but Christmas trees are simply overtaxed and do not make decisions. I'm also interested in your opinion in this area. We have proposed a number of other measures. I want to know: Will we be invited to negotiate and participate in the preparation of the tax reform?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u193	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I cannot respond to so many concrete proposals in two minutes. So let me tell you, I'm sure these proposals, which have already appeared, will appear thoroughly examined, as will the others who will be in the public debate. But there's something I'd like to point out. Yes, we want people to be less burdened by taxes to make the country competitively successful, but we also need to learn other tax cultures in Slovenia. What's the tax? The tax is a contribution to the State that this contribution to some transparent, responsible, economical way enables public health, public education, kindergartens and so on, as well as helping people in distress. So paying taxes isn't something we should all just avoid. Of course, we need to establish, and we are doing so, a country that will be responsible for the money collected from taxes, and will make it available to citizens for kindergartens, schools, the care of the elderly, the care of those in distress that I am not talking about all other public spheres. This tax reform must therefore be done. But also change our mentality. We in the government will try to be a good public finance manager, to make some sense if a citizen pays a tax, to go for something good in society, and at the same time we will strive to make these taxes more effective in terms of promoting the economy, work and even more social justice in terms of providing assistance to those who really need it because of some objective pressures, financial circumstances, disease, disability, job losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u195	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u196	Here. I would like to see these things held by the President of the Government today held an in-depth debate. Why? You know, here I can be critical of myself, of our parliamentary group and of all of us sitting in this Chamber, to talk a lot about things that are not the most important for the Slovenian future. The issue of tax reform, the question of the future taxation of citizens, the question of the future business environment, I think that is the fundamental topic that this country must address. It is a topic that needs to be discussed in order to improve the future of life. And we shouldn't waste a minute of our time on these subjects. That is why I strongly want this Parliament to vote in favour of the coalition or the government, if that is what you wish. I will recall some time in August 2014, when we were trying to develop some substantive debate on the social cap at the time, today I would say about the development cap, and the debate was already in a quandary. Perhaps the debate in this House would help the government and the coalition to clear up certain things before a final decision is reached. This would relieve tension, perhaps clear up proposals that have the majority support to move forward. And perhaps this proposal can be consistent with what my fellow moon spoke before me. We may see things differently, but the subject we want to discuss is still very similar or similar. Here I think that the coalition could give its hand to the opposition and allow such a general debate to see what are the visions of Parliamentarians, where the future tax system should go or how the tax system should be regulated. I am sure that we will not all agree on everything, but we will have the opportunity to face our opinions. We are now more or less sentenced to press conferences, where we can say something, you answer something or we are condemned to parliamentary questions where the President of the Government is limited in time. We too are limited in time. Some in-depth and broader discussion cannot develop. If we don't talk about these things, then I don't know what we're gonna talk about. When there will be a vote tomorrow on this proposal, I hope that this proposal will not be again on that part of the coalition vote sheet that is required [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The opposition. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u197	The fourth question will be raised by Mr Jan Škoberne to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! For the first time since 2008, in this government's mandate, the indicators of development and growth of the Republic of Slovenia are positive and have an important impact on the future of our country. Over the past period, we have seen indicators, international and domestic, showing economic growth that is around positive 2.5%. With measures to balance public finances and strengthen confidence in external markets, we have achieved that the contribution to Slovenian bonds has reached 1% by 7%, and not least that we can see that, in the last period, the country's income or growth is significantly higher than that of the country. What seems crucial to me is that during the last two years, especially this year, we have also seen a significant increase in employment or an appropriate decline in unemployment. However, the red thread of both this and the previous government, which is part of the credit for this, has to be recognised and, at least in the last week, the issues of privatisation, fiscal rules, public sector cuts and enabling a positive economic environment are very clearly manifested. Therefore, my key question is how to translate economic growth and positive trends in the Republic of Slovenia into a real standard of living for the population and the population. How can we prevent indicators such as the poverty risk indicator, which has risen by 2% since 2008 to date, and how similar indicators that say today with minimum wage, this is according to the OECD, a single mother with two children will fall below the poverty threshold, not the indicators that will monitor our economic growth, but how will people get these positive effects? So I'm wondering: Can we, or to what extent, expect the government to take measures to shed these positive trends? How will measures to say, consolidation of public finances and stabilisation of the state and economy also be followed by measures to promote economic democracy and to ensure social stability and security for citizens and citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u199	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u200	Dear Member Škoberne, by the way, I'm sorry, I see you've damaged your arm, and I wish you as soon as possible a recovery, thank you for your question. Of course, the government wants all these and other favourable, positive, optimistic economic indicators, as well as some social indicators, such as the increase in employment, the reduction of unemployment among young people, to be very visible as soon as possible, to reflect more fully in the social sphere. This is the goal of this government to get to the point as soon as possible so that we can spend more money on people to improve their standard of living. Of course I'm talking about those who live hard. However, more favourable macroeconomic conditions must be used by Slovenia, particularly if it wants to ensure sustainability in the long term, to carry out further structural reforms. So that we can change our arrangement so that we can succeed in a long-term stable way and then make it possible for more people. In this context, we must encourage investment, we must promote structural reforms, as I said, we must be a good economy with state finances and much more. Let me say that in Slovenia, unfortunately, there is quite a bit of poverty, and that is painful. However, the rate of poverty for the entire population in Slovenia is still below the average of the European Union. This is not an excuse for not having to work as hard as possible, but fortunately, we are still in a situation where we can get to a better situation in some way. So, as we say, we have the lowest level of income inequality, given Gini's coefficient. But look, in recent times to this day, in dealing with this issue, the emphasis was on mitigating social pressures, through social transfers or providing basic income for survival for those who could not afford it. This was important, it is still important, but this is a passive approach to mitigating the economic crisis and poverty. This government, however, wants to take an active approach to this. So increase jobs, enable people, and this seems very crucial to me that, if they can, they will be able to earn enough themselves with their work to have some decent standard of living. Therefore, we must encourage the economy, implement structural reforms, be competitive and make it possible for people to do so, and I stress that they deserve enough to live a decent life in their own hands. Of course, this does not mean that there will be no more social transfers. Of course, groups of people and individuals who will need help in distress will still be in a dire situation. We will also take care of them from the outside, but of course within the limits of the options given. For example, let me just mention, right now we are preparing debt write-offs, which is one such measure in this direction. And others have been adopted and will, for example, be, in promoting employment policy. Here, too, a number of social measures have already been taken. The government has this perspective, but it must also ensure that we are still saving. Look, if we suddenly stop saving, it can happen to us or it happens to us that our public spending will increase by €445 million. This would mean 4% of the deficit in terms of the social product. And that's totally unsustainable. Then that means sinking back into crisis. So there will be austerity measures. We need to continue with them, but at the same time we are looking for all the options and will seek them for a more active social policy in the direction of helping those who need them because of social threats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u201	Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your answer. To a large extent, I must agree with you that the stability of the country and the long-term reflection on how to maintain development potential and also to allow stable social standards for citizens and citizens is a key issue. That's why I'm particularly interested: What is yours as well as yours, in particular the government's attitude towards those issues that are not directly related to emergency austerity measures and the necessary measures to consolidate public finances? Here I am talking about the possibility of sharing profits among employees, of course with appropriate economic benefits, the question of the 13th salary or the relation to its taxation, not least in some development perspective, these things are not happening from today to tomorrow, the question of promoting labour acquisitions and guarantees for the involvement of employees in the management of businesses or for measures of so-called economic democracy. It seems crucial to me that we tell people that a large part of the responsibility for the future lies with each individual, but behind them is a country that will help them to develop their potentials and their desire to create added value and thus stand behind them accordingly. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u203	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you. All of these options, all of these possible measures you mentioned, the sharing of profits among employees, 13th wages, the taking over of businesses by workers and the similar or broader spectrum of economic democracy, are something that this government is very attentive to. Even I wanted to be active here so far, and through the Secretary of State, I have actually established some coordination between different civil society groups, with expertise, including institutions and ministries, where these issues are discussed intensively. The Ministry of Economy is also active in finding solutions together with the Ministry of Finance on certain forms of economic democracy, how to involve workers more in certain processes, for example in certain cases where it makes sense to take over the company. We already have some good examples here in practice and we can continue to build. The government is thus paying attention to these things, but of course in some general context of the economic system that we have, I hope that in the future a little bit more attention to Slovenian mentality, the good mentality that we overcome, which I hope we will encourage even more in the future. We're active in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u205	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. At the same time, I need a mag. Tell Matthew Tonin that his proposal will be decided tomorrow, as will all other proposals, because I had forgotten to say it before. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 8th and 9th meetings of the National Assembly. First of all, he'll be the Justice Minister. Goran Klemenčič answered Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the procedures of the Ministry of Justice following the publication of the Commission's report on anti-corruption related to the corrupt behaviour of the Attorney General. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues on this side of the table! Given that this is a question that has been raised before the decision of the State Prosecutor's Council, my answer will be brief, but I believe that the question of Dr Gorenak will be complemented. As you are aware, the State Prosecutor's Council has decided not to propose the discharge of the Attorney General. My response was then the only possible, and that is that the decision of an independent body, which is the only one responsible for the proposal for the discharge of the Attorney General, I respect and accept, but at the same time, I have also expressed my regret at the same time, not so much about the decision that, as the Minister of Justice, I cannot make a substantive determination, but I have determined that I thought the explanation was very, very scrupulous. However, what has also been announced is that, in preparing a comprehensive justice development strategy, the government will re-examine the system of barriers and balances of various building blocks in the judiciary in relation to the executive and legislative branches of government, particularly in the case of appointments and discharges. We are talking about key functions in the judiciary, the State Prosecutor's Office and the State's Office with a view to limiting, on the one hand, unacceptable political pressures or personnel, and on the other hand by strengthening accountability and transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u207	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The answer was expected, given the conduct of the last two months, but, Minister, you're talking about an independent state authority. I like to do some things. Of course, the State Prosecutor's Council is on paper an independent state authority vis-à-vis the prosecutor. This independent, in narrations, of course, because it is not an independent state authority, at least in relation to the Attorney General, it consists of five people under his authority. How can this be independent? Five people who are subordinate to him are not independent of him. Then there are two of his former associates. Can we just say they're independent? No, nothing. Then there are two others who are his former colleagues in the Constitutional Court or at the university. Thus, we have a quasi body that is right for itself to be an independent body, and this has made this decision. Now, here's a question for you. 8. 1. You said in the case of the KPK report on the property situation of the presidents of the parliamentary parties: "Let them take responsibility to leave, or we will." What did you do now? Isn't the government independent? The government is independent under the Constitution. A logical story, especially against the KPK you were running at the time. And so your reaction was like I said. Today, however, you refer to an independent, quasi-independent state authority called the State Prosecutor's Council. How did you change your mind? The government is also an independent body, whose president you actually called for a resignation and eventually brought it down. With some report, which is now quite clear, this was unconstitutional and illegal. How did you change your mind? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u209	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much, Mr. or Dr. Gorenak. The State Prosecutor's Council is established by law with its powers. Until the amendment of the law, its decisions must be taken and taken into account. However, we can partly agree that it would make sense in this area to amend the law, but not in the way proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and of which the whole mass was in Parliament and this proposal was also rejected because it introduced a fully political system for the recruitment of the state prosecutor in the Russian model. And this was also made very clear to you at the time by my Secretary of State, who also reminded you of your past implementation years ago regarding the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Act, where you were just defending the reverse position. Now for a brief discussion of your second part of the question. Dear Dr. Gorenak, never, ever again, and never again, have any members of the KPK Senate invited Janez Janša or Zoran Jankovic to resign because we did not have these powers. No, you said, you said, and you repeatedly stress that we did. We have never done this, we have been drawn to the language, the media and politics, we have always said that we do not have this authority and we have not done so. That's the first thing you've ever said that's not real. And the other thing that's not true, what you've been saying, is that the report that we've made is now quite clear in terms of the content and procedure that it's unconstitutional and so on. As far as I am aware, today the report has been fully confirmed by the other Senate of the Commission. While there is no doubt that the debtor will re-run the cycle through the legal mills, which is also right, and this is his right, you cannot say today that the substantive report on your President's control is, among other things, completely unconstitutional and so on. That's my answer. Today, I did exactly the same with regard to the State Prosecutor's Council and Mr Fischer when you said I had called for a resignation. I didn't ask you to step down. I didn't ask Dr. Fisher to resign either, because that's why I don't have the legal powers and I'm trying to stick to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u211	Dr. Gorenak, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you very much. This, of course, is what I want, or I ask that we vote on this tomorrow. The main reason is that we will not come together with Minister Klemenčič. Two days ago, he convinced me in this National Assembly how we opposed the establishment of the National Investigation Office in the years, I do not know which, 2011 or 2009. When I brought him the written document, he was quiet. I intend to do the same at the meeting I propose, for a fundamental reason, because the 2013 words were quite clear: to take responsibility. Yeah, what's more than a call to leave? That's exactly what they said. Above all, the problem in this or I think it is necessary to hold such a meeting – well, we will do it anyway, regardless of your vote, which we also know – for a fundamental reason, because the state of Slovenia still has a person acting corruptly at the top of the prosecution's organization. It's as clear as day. Of course, such a situation is not acceptable. If the coalition does not see this situation, then it is imperative that we tell them again at such a meeting. It's urgent. Because we're not allowed to have the condition we have. Above all, I intend to demonstrate at such a meeting Mr Klemenčič, within the time available to me, his political behaviour, which was then as it was, is quite different today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u213	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 July 2015 in the framework of the votes. Now the Minister of Justice is going to be a magician. Goran Klemenčič answered a question already raised, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, concerning the seizure of property of illegal origin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Member Ksenija Korenjak Kramar asked me a question about the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin and the Law on Criminal Procedure. Your question is one of the few questions that concerns, not how successful we are at seizing assets of illegal origin, but how successful we are in managing this property. I believe that this is an important emphasis that is often overlooked. Although we can agree that we are less successful in the area of seized property of illegal origin, we can only take it away, which we often hear in the National Assembly, and what we have also heard in the consideration of the report on the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. But we have one problem ahead of us that has been dragging on for several years and it would have been easier to solve, and so far it has not been solved, and this is an effective management of seized objects, quite simply said. This is a costly story today, an uncoordinated story in which many different stakeholders operate, from Furs and other institutions of the Ministry of Finance, Prosecutor's Office, courts, police, even the Land and Forests Fund are involved. Just getting the data is hard. When the southern border on customs with Croatia entering the EU was released, Slovenia lost one chance to use these personnel and capacities to organise one body, which would deal mainly with storage and the efficient management of seized property. It's not that small. Not enough for organised crime, but not enough for general crime, seized vehicles, seized other items and so on. The Ministry of Justice has already initiated the necessary changes in this area at the end of last year or will start managing the analysis. A special Interdepartmental Working Group has been set up to prepare measures for more efficient storage and management of seized property, which includes all stakeholders. As you know, last week the Penal Code was behind us, and ZIKS, now the CAP is closing in the summer, but I believe that this will be one of the next proposals for new legislation that we will bring to your table. This will be a very long law, but it will be an important step forward in the legislative and institutional resolution of the problem of handling seized things. I also have to say here that Croatia has already outrun us and has a lot of experience here, so we are also talking to them about what these experiences are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u215	Now you'll be the Minister of the Interior. Vesna Györkös Žnidar and Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčič answered Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding proceedings against alleged organisers and abusers at the 2012 and 2013 demonstrations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At the previous meeting, Ambassador Vinko Gorenak raised a question of how to deal with alleged organisers and abusers at demonstrations in 2012 and 2013. As you yourself have already found out when you have asked a question before you, which you addressed to the Minister of Justice in the first place, you are already aware of the police data to some extent, so I will briefly try to point out some of the information in connection with your specific questions. You probably know that already on 22 January 2013 the Director-General of Police appointed a working group to produce an analysis of police activity in protest in the Republic of Slovenia. The period from 2 November 2012 to 29 November 2012 was analysed. 12. 2012 or police action at 23 protests in the area of all police administrations. In 2012 and 2013, the police carried out measures at several public meetings that were not notified in accordance with the Public Assembly Act. At some meetings, she also dealt with crimes with elements of violence during this period. The most intensive period of organising undeclared public gatherings and violent crimes was considered at the end of 2012. Meetings were generally organised through social networks under different titles with the participation of various civil initiatives, as well as with different slogans. As a result of the above circumstances, the police have failed to carry out an infringement procedure and a forecasting procedure against the organisers of the protest meetings under consideration. As far as the number of criminal charges filed by the police is concerned. During the protests, the police also recorded 113 crimes, of which 64% were bad attacks on police officers, including the crimes of injury to foreign goods. Most of these were 26. 11. 2012 in Maribor. To prepare the analysis, the police accused 66 suspects of assaulting police officers. The Ljubljana Police Administration is also against the protestor who carried a banner with the inscription Politics, march in the Barbara trench! file a criminal complaint for a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence under Article 297 KZ-1, first paragraph, which is the offence of public incitement to hatred, violence or intolerance. As far as criminal proceedings against the police are concerned, 401 violations have been recorded. The most violations of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, i.e. more than 88% of all infringements, other infringements concerned mainly the Law on Public Collections, the Law on Identity Cards, the Law on Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, the Law on the Production and Trafficking of Prohibited Drugs, the Law on Arms and the Law on Private Protection. These criminal proceedings were conducted by police stations throughout Slovenia as criminal authorities in accordance with the Offences Act. The police in the records do not conduct criminal cases according to the parameters of the analysis or your parliamentary question, which should be clarified more precisely, and in order to prepare a response to the epilogue of criminal cases, as you put it in cases that were dealt with during the protests, should be looked at separately in each file.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u217	I'm passing on the information we've obtained from the U.S. Attorney's Office. The prosecutions have dealt with 59 people in connection with your question in 15 cases. The indictments were brought against 46 persons, including proposals for a sentence of criminal sanctions in proceedings against juvenile offenders. We have not received any data on the outcome of the procedures for the preparation of the issue, comprehensive and final. However, once before, we have applied for them and some of the data show that seven persons have been convicted in the closed cases, six have been dismissed from criminal charges, one against one person on the basis of the general useful work carried out in the context of the postponement of prosecution, one still in the investigation phase, and in one case, the State Prosecutor's Office has filed a request for the protection of legality against the seven persons. With regard to demonstrators with a banner labeled Politics, the march to Barbara's trench came from the prosecution's report that the prosecution dropped the complaint because there was no reasonable suspicion that a crime was committed that was being prosecuted on official duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u218	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. It's significant. As far as the Ministry's concerned, everything's fine. I've known numbers before. But it would also be good to see that once, even though today you have no data on how criminal proceedings have been completed, because in the end it can be obtained within the police. Maybe next month or September I'll ask you about it. As for the rest, look, Minister, a month has passed since this question was raised. Within one month, the Supreme Court or the courts will not give you any information. Now I don't know if they're giving you or what, so I realized that it wasn't possible to collect all the data. I think that all the data must be collected, because in the end it was some phenomenon in the Slovenian space, I mean these violent protests that this country has never met before. It is likely that one epilogue will have to be made to tell what happened, why it happened, and what the consequences were in the final stage then also in the judicial branch of power. Look, 46 charges, six dropped, seven convicted. And typically, someone who carries in the middle of Ljubljana's Politics to Barbara's trench. What happened there, we know. The D.A. says no. The D.A. says there are no elements to the crime here. They're gone. In Maribor you know that city saints in the form of puppets were hanged on the bridge. It's not a crime, etc., etc. If it is not a crime, then it would probably suggest that we also consider any changes to the legislation or that prosecutors ask how politically motivated they are. According to my information, or after writing the media at the time, I speak after writing the media at the time, gave instructions and said, "As long as this government is in power, do police reports in the most manner – it is said to throw them away." Please, if it's [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u220	The Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar and Minister of Justice, Mag. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u221	I'm sorry, there was no question, but there was a comment. That's what they say. Look, I don't know the contents of an appeal like you don't know. Nevertheless, I will say that I think we must be careful when we say that any general prosecutor or general prosecutor has given such instructions with political motive at any time. I'm not aware of that. And yet these are quite serious accusations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u222	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u223	Yes, I ask for this discussion on the answer. As far as you're concerned, you're not familiar. The media wrote at the time. I know, I know, I know, well, you didn't read, you were in KPK back then. But if the media report that the Attorney General has instructed the College of Prosecutors in Slovenia that, while this government is taking police reports and treating them like this, I will say, in the nicest way, and if that is true, then this is a major problem for this country. Otherwise, as has already been said, I think it is necessary to discuss this at a meeting of the National Assembly, and until then also to allow the Minister and the Minister to obtain more information. In particular, I would be interested in that criminal, Minister, because by the end of September this will be possible. Whether we are going to talk about this at a meeting of the National Assembly or on a parliamentary issue, I am leaving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u224	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Wednesday 15 July 2015, in the framework of the votes. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, will now answer Mr Danil Anton Ranc's question regarding the Eco Fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u225	Mr Ranc, honourable President, honourable Members. With regard to the business plan of the Eco Fund for 2015, you say in your question that you do not follow the government guidelines, strategic documents to support a low carbon society. You say that the Eco Fund has extremely high resources, and this year additional funds have been provided by the Climate Fund, but the use of these does not take into account government documents related to the reduction of energy consumption and the use of environmentally friendly materials. On a concrete question: When will you stop co-financing renewable sources of electricity based on photovoltaics, based on panels imported from China, let me answer that the Eco Fund does not provide grants to co-finance solar electricity production, and for these purposes only re-funds are available to investors in the form of loans. Such an incentive aims to increase the share of renewable energy sources and consequently reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but, as I mentioned, only through recoveries. When are we going to stop the subsidies for burning wood biomass from industrial wood? The Ministry of the Environment and Space keeps reminding of the effects that increased use of wood biomass for air quality can have. Although the energy use of wood has a positive effect on reducing CO2 emissions and thus mitigating climate change. When burning wood as well as other biomass, CO2 emissions are released, but later, when new biomass is growing, this carbon binds to the plant again, reducing the share of CO2 in the air. The positive effect of wood on the reduction of CO2 emissions is mainly observed in the replacement of fossil fuels, which, by the way, are irreversibly burdening the climate with CO2 emissions. With a view to achieving synergies between climate change mitigation and improving air quality, in line with the requirements of Directive 2008/50/EC, in the air quality plans for the areas of Murska Sobota, Maribor, Celje, Kranj, Ljubljana, Novo mesto and for the three Sava municipalities, we have fully addressed the challenge you are facing. Through incentives from the country for the thermal rehabilitation of buildings, on the one hand, we are seeking to reduce the need for thermal energy throughout Slovenia, and incentives for the purchase of small combustion plants are only possible in sub-areas where remote heating and gas heating are not defined as a priority. The replacement of small combustion plants is therefore encouraged in these seven areas only in the remaining uninhabited areas. In doing so, I stress that modern combustion plants also have up to 40% greater efficiency than obsolete and simple, and improvements in air quality are even more favourable. Furthermore: How will you subsidize wood products as a renewable natural resource? We agree with the direction you are referring to, namely, that wood is primarily used for products of high added value and only then as fuel in small combustion plants. From the point of view of the incentives of the Eco Fund, I would like to point out that the Eco Fund has been promoting only wooden windows for several years, and that even with incentives for comprehensive rehabilitation and new construction, such as passive houses, the incentive is greater if natural materials are used. We have also done a lot at the Ministry in recent years in the field of the use of wood in the construction of buildings, and all the newer technical regulations have been completely or, as far as possible, removed restrictions on the use of wood in the construction of buildings from the point of view of ensuring the safety of users. In the area of building buildings, which are built from public funds, a step has already been taken more since the Green Public Procurement Regulation explicitly favoured the use of wood. In the future, we are planning a thorough overhaul of that Annex to the Green Public Procurement Regulation which regulates the construction of buildings. It is envisaged that the content represented by wood construction, this is sustainable construction, is also extended to other aspects, thus further encouraging the rational use of natural resources, of course also wood. How we will stop the financing of large infrastructure facilities through the Eco-Fund, I propose to say this further.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u226	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u227	President, thank you for your word. I also thank the Minister for the answer, but I would like to ask a few more questions in this regard. I certainly think that because of its name as its basic mission, EcoFund should focus primarily on the use of environmentally renewable materials and should finance and subsidise timber as an energy source. In part, you have answered me the question that the Fund is trying to change business policy in this direction, but in this regard, I would ask or suggest: Will you prepare a business plan rebalancing in which more resources instead of co-financing large infrastructure projects would be used to subsidise environmentally friendly production in the wood industry and thus encourage green jobs and eco-friendly production? I would also like to repeat the issue of supporting the so-called photovoltaics, because I think that this is also some kind of support, totally inappropriate, because history has shown that a new TEC has been practically created here and that we will devote about a billion euros of subsidies to photovoltaics. From this point of view, I also propose that you accept the business plan's rebalancing and stop supporting the co-financing of photovoltaics with loans. I ask you to answer these supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u228	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thanks for the extra questions. In a way, I can say that the Lower Sava Act provided for this investment to be financed from both the Climate and the Water Fund. It is true that this funding goes directly from the Climate Fund, so it does not fund Eco, by saying that the Eco Fund does not finance large infrastructure projects. It is true, however, that so far, over a period of quite a few years, the climate fund has co-financed this construction and, this year, there has also been a slightly greater co-financing mainly for the reason that more resources have to be provided for the construction of the Accumulation Pool, as the advantage of the investment for the Accumulation Pool in Brežice is 157 million euros. We will continue to work in the light of low prices, emission vouchers and, as a consequence, small amounts of climate funds to be used by the Climate Fund for the purposes defined by the operational programme for greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2020. By spending up to 80% of the climate fund's funding for non-refundable financial incentives to citizens for the use of renewable energy sources and greater energy efficiency of multi-housing buildings, we will achieve the greatest impact in meeting the national commitments of the Republic of Slovenia under the EU Climate Energy Package, while at the same time helping to create jobs and promote green growth in the economy. In view of the fact that the Eco Fund covers the functioning of two ministries, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, we will examine your initiative and, together with the Minister, determine whether a rebalancing is needed or not, because, to the extent that the data on investment in photovoltaics are known, this also means that this investment is no longer carried out with a momentum such as it was a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u230	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, will now answer Mrs Anita Koleš's question regarding the regulation on municipal waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u231	Member of the Commission, Ms Anita Koles, you ask me when a new regulation on municipal waste will be adopted and how specific cases of local communities will be taken into account in the new regulation, as an appropriate solution could greatly help to rationalise the costs of municipalities which are currently lacking investment funds and are difficult to ensure the performance of all statutory tasks. The adoption of a regulation on municipal waste management is planned in accordance with the Government's work programme in 2015. The proposal for a regulation is being prepared, but it is not yet prepared to be able to talk about concrete solutions, but we are certainly aware in the Ministry that there are many smaller municipalities in Slovenia that lack investment funds, and even if we look on the ground, it really does not make sense to build such centres every few kilometres if one centre could be used for the population of several municipalities. The current supply standards for the implementation of the compulsory municipal public service for the collection of municipal waste are laid down by the Ordinance on the Treatment of Separately Collected Factions in the Public Service for the Management of Municipal Wastes of 2001. In the performance of the public service, certain requirements relating to the handling of hazardous fractions of municipal waste should be met by 31 December 2001 at the latest, and in relation to the handling of separate fractions of municipal waste by 31 December 2003. So we take that for granted. Nevertheless, the required infrastructure for the separate collection of municipal waste is not fully established after more than ten years of implementation of these deadlines. For a small municipality, it is extremely difficult to meet the standards currently in force to establish local infrastructure for the implementation of the public service for municipal waste collection in recent years, particularly from a financial point of view. We will therefore, within the framework of legal options, seek to amend existing supply standards that would enable municipalities, as well as citizens, to ensure the proper implementation of the public service for the collection of municipal waste by sharing already built infrastructure in the area of neighbouring and other nearby municipalities, or that it is possible to conclude an agreement between municipalities and set up one such assembly centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u232	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister of the Environment and Space, will now answer the question of Matjaž Hanžka regarding the transfer of concessions for the use of water resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you. Member Matjaž Hanžek asks me: In transferring the ownership of an economic company which has a national or municipal concession, it is also necessary to agree with the concessionaire to transfer the concession to a new concessionaire. Such an event is certainly an opportunity to overwind concessional conditions and benefits in favour of the concessionaire. This is not possible, of course, if a concessional act is drafted to the detriment of the concessionaire or is excluded in advance, and therefore asks: When transferring the ownership of the Pivovarna Laško concession for the water source for the production of beer, did he issue an agreement for the transfer of the concession? And if it is – who issued and signed this act? Why did he not improve the concession conditions in favour of the concessionaire? Where has this act been published publicly since it is undoubtedly information of a public nature? When transferring the ownership of the Pivovarna Laško concession for the water source for the supply of drinking water to citizens has given consent for the transfer of the concession? If so, who issued and signed this act? Why did he not improve the concession conditions in favour of the concessionaire and where this act was published, since it is undoubtedly information of public interest? How is the transfer of concession rights for the use of water resources to new owners of the Radgonska, Kolinska and Pivovarna Union regulated? This morning, we also discussed the amendment of the Water Act in the National Assembly. The Water Act regulates the transfer of water rights in Article 121. Water rights may be transferred in whole or in part to another natural or legal person. Where a legal person is maintained and only the ownership of the company is changed, it is not a transfer of water rights under the Water Act. In the event of termination of a legal person, water right would also cease if it had not previously been transferred to another legal person. The legal procedure and conditions for transposition shall be defined by the Water Act. The Law on Economic Public Services regulates the transfer of a concession for the execution of an economic public service and is scheduled to be amended next year. By water licences granted, of course, or [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] lead them to the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. No one has given consent to the transfer of water right for the use of water resources for the supply of drinking water because there is no need under the Water Act [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u234	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u235	I'm not gonna ask any more questions. I'm just giving the secretary the time that she lost so she can finish what she thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u236	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. No one has given consent to the transfer of water rights for the use of water for drinking water, since there is no need under the Water Act. The holder of water rights has not changed and is still the municipality of Laško. The municipality of Laško was granted water licences for drinking water supply of 19. 8. 2013 and 5. 11th of the same year, 12. 12 the same year and 3. 5. 2013 All licences shall be in the water book maintained by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. It is completely different with the concessional public service of drinking water supply. The Law on Economic Public Services provides otherwise for the transfer of concessions for the execution of an economic service. The exercise of a concessional economic service may be transferred to another person only if the transfer is provided for in the concession contract or to the intended extent. Otherwise, the transfer is only possible by permission of the concessionaire. Pivovarna Laško operates a compulsory local public water supply service, which was awarded by the municipality of Laško years ago without a public invitation to tender. In the case of a compulsory local economic service, the concessionaire shall be the municipality which awarded the concession by means of a concessional act. According to the municipal decree, the concessionaire is obliged to inform the concessionaire of any status change, including a control change in the capital structure. If the concessionaire fails to do so within a reasonable period of time, if changes affect the interest of the concessionaire or if changes substantially alter the relationship under the concession contract, the concessionaire may, under the conditions laid down in the decree, break the concession contract. This is provided for in the Decree on concessions for the provision of compulsory and local public water services in the municipality of Laško. Information on the notification by the concessionaire of a change in the capital structure may be provided to you by a municipality which is a concession for the conduct of an economic public service. And if we go to question three. So far no transfer of water concession for the production of beverages has been carried out to the new owner for the purpose of selling certain shares to the company, since the companies have remained active and are carrying out the same activity. In the event of termination of the legal person, the water right would also cease if it had not previously been transferred to another legal person. The procedure and conditions for the transfer of water shall be defined by the Water Act. And it is precisely the change that is now under consideration that the law also states for the first time that they have the resources of the country’s drinking water and the congregation. As users and executives of the public water service, however, the municipalities have an absolute advantage here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u238	We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. First, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anji Kopač Dark, will raise the question of Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u239	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Madam Secretary! I have asked you one general question about the prices you set for the social welfare of the elderly. Let me just say, as an MP, I got some letters from the mayors. I was first expressed in letters, some agreement that the Government had adopted on the average amount, that is, what we had recently accepted, where on the one hand it committed itself to lowering the average in the second half of the year, but also the costs of municipalities for those compulsory services that must be implemented under the Local Self-Government Act. Last but not least, we have found that municipalities must perform some 180 tasks at this time and that these costs will be reduced by around €22.8 million. Let me say that on the other hand, these costs have not been reduced. The tasks, as we know, remain the same. Another point that is important to stress, however, is that some prices, such as social welfare for older persons, have increased. Let's say the case I'm referring to is the last one. The municipality of Jurovski dol has three boys at the Institute for Training, Work and Protection of Dr. Marijan Borštnjan in Dornavo and had an account for full-day adult protection of EUR 3080 by 1 May. Your ministry issues overnight, confirms the new price of this institution for the same care, for the same services and sends an account to a municipality with less than two million budgets, 4 000 333 euros. Let me say that for one municipality in the middle of the year that is planning, we can say that every euro, for every euro, is known for what is being spent, this is about 40% higher price – from €3 000 086 to €4 thousand 333. This is at the annual level over the thumb about 15, 18 000 euros more. This is for such a congregation, I must admit, a great embarrassment and a great problem. And this is a congregation in which the whole number of pensioners with farmers’ pensions is less than 300 euros. So I ask you to somehow explain to me: Why such an increase, Madam Minister, for certain services in particular with regard to the protection of older persons? Thank you very much, Madam Minister for Response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u240	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Thank you, Mr. Franz Breznik, for the question. I will first answer how the prices of institutional protection programmes are determined. These are established on the basis of a methodology for the pricing of social security services, taking into account elements for the calculation of service prices such as labour costs, material and services costs, depreciation and investment support costs and financing costs. Coordination takes place once a year, on 1 March, on the basis of the Official Journal of the published Decision, Growth in the Prices of Social Security Services and the Decision establishing the Standard of Average Wages and the Costs and Expenditures of Institutional Protection Services for Persons over 65 years of age and for Adults with Special Needs in Special Social Security Institutions and Home Units for Older Persons, which can be taken into account in the Prices of Services. In doing so, labour costs are coordinated, in line with the changes in collective agreements and other acts for certain salaries and the costs of material and service costs in line with the annual consumer price index. In 2015, the cost of labour and material costs as part of the price calculation have not changed significantly. According to the rules of procedure, institutions have the possibility to apply the costs of depreciation of investment maintenance and financing in price, taking into account the limits set by the rules. Therefore, institutions could raise the price mainly from the last mentioned costs. After a review of how many institutions have decided to raise, these are among the rare because, for example, older people’s homes are very careful not to raise prices because this can cause them to lack capacity. When we look at what has been happening in this area in recent years, we find that social institutions, those for special needs, social security, and the homes for the elderly have not been raised. So this case you're referring to is probably one of the rare cases, but they have discretion, but the world of the institution needs to confirm such a price rise. However, since you have also linked this to the costs of the municipalities, I may be able to give just one general assessment. As the Government, we have reached an agreement, and the Ministry of Labour contributes as much as possible to this agreement, but we point out that we are in favour of reducing the administrative costs of municipalities, and we would certainly not want the costs of municipalities to be reduced in such a way as to remove the rights that municipalities provide to citizens and citizens or, if you wish, to citizens and citizens. One of these latest cases was the removal of the profit subsidy. In the final stage, indeed, the congregations will no longer have costs, and the state will not cover this – who is at a disadvantage? Citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens. While we are reducing costs, it is certainly necessary to look at all that administratively unnecessary, and by no means by reducing and harmonising the average paid to municipalities, we would not want to do so at the expense of citizens and citizens. And that's our common concern. I believe the mayors and mayors as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u242	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, somehow as you said, I imagined it myself when one of the mayors presented me with specific information. The price is up to 1. 5. was the social protection of adults, housing groups, for 16 hours the price was 44 euros. With this new decision, to which your ministry has agreed, here I have a decision where you agree with the price rise, the price has risen in this main item, which sets this price by 45.66%, which is 64.10 euros. Total price for these three suppliers for the municipality of Sveti Jurij in Slovenski gorica from 1. 5. This increased by 40.82% in 2015, which is a thousand 206 euros. The problem is that you agree to raise the price, I agree, for example, that some have not taken into account the cost of depreciation, that there are other costs. But look, Madam Minister, I will give you this decision, including this old price, the old and new service bill, because I believe that a 45% increase at a time when every ministry on every corner is saving is being rational, even though I agree that these people themselves need this service, that the municipality needs to finance it, even the mayor is aware of it, but the service by raising the price by 45% seems to me to be, forgive me, not on the spot, it seems to me that there is some sadness and abnormal price, especially for the congregation, where I can say that asphalt roads count on the finger of one hand, where people really do not live well. It is a major social hardship for people and it is such an increase for one such municipality to break at least some budget lines. So I'd like to ask you, I'll give you these two lists after this question to take a look. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u244	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u245	I have already explained in my reply which elements must be taken into account that a price rise is possible. I believe that the Ministry of Professional Services has examined all of this because they are aware of what raising the price means. If the price was raised, it was, in some way, a form of information that the social security agency mentioned must have justified and explained that this price rise was necessary. You need to be aware that if we do not raise prices and leave any harmonisation, it also ultimately reduces the quality of services. And for this institution, which is difficult to comment on in this way, it is necessary to look at everything exactly. Of course, for an individual congregation, it can mean, as you may say, for such a small congregation that does not have funds, a certain cost. However, you need to be aware that they are probably in this institution, because we do not have a lot in the country for adults with special needs, that there are also people from other congregations who, of course, do not have so many problems because the congregation is smaller, it is more familiar. So it is also necessary to find ways to provide municipalities that will be able to service their citizens and citizens according to their size, but this is another story. If I repeat, this is when the Ministry's professional services decide to increase prices, they take into account both the legal criteria and the situation in individual institutions. In the past and even today, price increases are rather rare, as if it were something in general. If this was the case in this institution, which you are referring to indirectly, the reasons for this are likely to have been more than justifiable. I will be happy to see when you give me this decision, but it is in some ways the ministry's policy that if it is not necessary, we do not give consent to a possible increase in prices. However, there is also a need to ensure the smooth operation of public welfare institutions, which is indirectly the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, as regards the institutions within our competence. But I will be happy to look at the decision and also to ask within the Ministry what those reasons were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u246	Mr. Franz Breznik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u247	I will hand this over to the Minister, and I will not demand a general debate by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that I save you a certain amount of energy, Mr President-respected. But I'm going to hand over this file to the minister. Both me and Mayor Peter Škrlec in the Jurassic Valley, we both understand the needs of this institution, we both respect that these three handicapped young people who live there need certain protection. I do not understand, however, that with one decision someone can raise prices and positions by 45%, Madam Minister. That's what I asked myself, I couldn't believe it, so I'm going to hand it over to you, and I'm going to ask you, if you really are going to commit yourself to this agreement next week, which your ministry has issued, and then maybe we can see if there's any solution that might be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u248	In order not to set up that procedure, I gave you only procedurally. We are moving on to the next question that will be posed by Matjaž Han to the Minister without the Ministry responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mr Gorazd Žmavc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, because this area is not quite precisely regulated, I have addressed you because you are in some way concerned about national minorities, so I ask you about your opinion and the Government. On 11 February, four years ago, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Declaration of the Republic of Slovenia on the Situation of National Communities of Members of the Peoples of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the Republic of Slovenia. This declaration provides for the legal regulation of the situation of these communities in Slovenia. The non-discriminatory legal regime governing the status of these communities is their inclusion in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the allocation of minority status. The United Left Coalition has already been involved in its pre-election programmes in efforts for the constitutional recognition of these communities and thus has now supported the ongoing efforts of the Union of Cultural Associations and Constitutional Nations and the nationality of the former SFRJ in Slovenia for 12 years. In the United Left, we believe that this issue needs to be addressed appropriately for 25 years after independence. Moreover, the issue should have been settled years ago, with no material means worth mentioning, but for acts of symbolic importance and, above all, respect for human rights. According to our information, the representatives of this association met with Dr Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, months ago, and handed him a memorandum with a constitutional supplement. Since the government has not yet communicated its position – at least I do not know if it would – in relation to some 100,000 citizens of Slovenia with roots in the former common country, I ask you: Dear Minister, what is the Government's opinion and what is your opinion as Minister on this issue? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u250	The Minister responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mr. Gorazd Žmavc, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u251	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Dear Matjaž Hanžek, thank you for the question, but with all due respect for your question I must say in fact that the question of my competence is that I am responsible for the area of Slovenians in place and throughout the world, but I must say that I also understand this question in the context of, above all, the protection and respect of human rights of all nations or nationalities and minorities. And I believe that this is certainly a relevant issue that representatives of the former SFRJ, as I am aware, raised at the meeting of the Prime Minister and, as you are also referring to in your question of the Member States, expressed their wish for the constitutional recognition of their national community. I must tell you right now that this cross-cutting coordination is taking place, as far as this is concerned. However, I must say that our ministry is not directly involved in this cross-cutting cooperation, so this is a bit more difficult for me, and all the departments that have their representatives in the world of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of the national community of members of the peoples of the former SFRJ and the Republic of Slovenia are present. But later, as a member of the Government and as a minister, as you ask me, I will actively engage when the starting points are known, because I believe that the standards for minorities are constantly rising and will need to be increasingly valued and enforced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u253	Minister, I understand your distress, because this is what the Ministry of Culture is doing in the cultural field, in education of education, in legal matters of the Ministry of Justice, mainly in security matters, so there is a major confusion here and this confusion also shows Slovenia's attitude towards these minorities. I must also say that some of the other countries that came from the former common country, where Slovenians are as numerous and percentage fewer than others in Slovenia, have addressed these issues and have also dealt with them very quickly for much more, I would say, a loving way towards their former fellow countrymen. I will not list the country, but we have about 10% of these citizens, and there are fewer Slovenians than 1%, but they are written in the constitution and so on. I can see here that you won't be able to tell me anything else, but I still have to give my opinion. I think that the government should take you seriously, in particular, because the problem of representatives of other peoples of Slovenia is almost as close to the hair as the Slovenians in place or abroad and I think we should somehow later commit ourselves to pull some common policy. Because if there is to be inter-departmental coordination – I know that – it can last for another five years on these 25. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Gorazd Žmavc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u255	Mr Member, I promise to be actively involved when this issue is being addressed by the government after inter-departmental coordination. I think it's some standards that we should actually master as a whole. So I will be involved and I will see what activities we can carry on together, especially in the interest of minorities, here and there, because in fact this is an added value that we will all have to consider as a majority nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will ask the Minister for Public Use, Mrs Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u257	Thank you, Chairman. I ask the following questions from the Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnik. In contact with the services of the public, state administration, we face different experiences, which depend mostly on the employees themselves. Some do their work professionally and engagedly, while others do so by means of the so-called line of least resistance, without the will to solve any problem. Finally, this means a dissatisfied citizen and perhaps an unsettled existential problem for someone. We can also look for a reason for this in poor conduct, but certainly in an egalitarian environment and lack of stimulation for those who do well. Read it. Whether you're doing good or doing bad, you've got the same salary. The shortcomings of the existing public sector payroll system were identified in 2011 both by the then government and by the OECD study, which also made a recommendation towards greater flexibility in determining the remuneration of an individual public official, which is expected to depend on the results and quality of his work. The last analysis of the payroll system produced in 2015 constitutes an upgrade to the already mentioned one. On the one hand, changes in the pay system should allow for the possibility of awarding public servants in cases where certain objectives are exceeded and, on the other hand, stimulating and providing appropriate incentives for those less successful and less motivated employees. Personally, I believe that the existing system, the wage system of progress in the public sector, is weak, inefficient and unfair. At the same time, it seems that bad employees cannot be replaced. In the event of changes in the regime of the wage system in the public sector and in the remuneration of public servants, and irrespective of the wishes and objectives set out in the coalition agreement, we cannot fail to take into account the efforts to reduce the wages of public servants and, on the other hand, to achieve the objectives and principles of incentive award, which the current law on the public sector wage system is supposed to follow. That's why I'm asking you: How do you intend to change the system to ensure that good public administration workers are better paid and motivated? How can we ensure that bad workers can be stimulated and stimulated to achieve better results or, in extreme cases, replaced? Are you planning major changes to the payroll system? How will this improve the efficiency of the public sector? And finally. Public statements show that unions are held back to measure or even oppose failure. How will performance be measured? How do you assess their position on the proposals? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u259	Dear Members and Members! Dear Member Zorman. Given that we come from a coalition, I might even expect a simpler question, but I will try to answer it because the matter on which you ask is not so simple and the solution is not so simple, although we all see that order needs to be made, as we like to call it. At the time of its application, the payment system we have today had three objectives: a uniform, homogeneous pay system, a fair distribution of jobs and a stimulating pay system. We've maintained a single system. As far as fairness is concerned, we are already finding that there is a whole range of anomalies in distributions, but with regard to stimulation we have completely missed this goal, because I am also assessing that it is not too stimulating. Therefore, through proposals already based on government decisions that are the basis for discussions with trade unions this year to correct systemic legislation, and from proposals for concrete amendments to the Law on the wage scheme for public servants, which we have sent to the trade unions just days ago, and we will think that tomorrow we will be talking about it further, it turns out that we want to increase the variable part of the salary in two parts, in one part of the performance, and in the other part of the definition of the higher pay grade, while at the same time we want to reduce the number of automatic advances that are now ten pay grade for titles, which means that in the same job you can only get in practice given that you are a long time in this job, including up to fifteen and more wage classes of wage difference. We want to reduce these automatisms and spill the award into these two forms of performance and determine the temporary higher pay grade. However, the basis for this determination can be two, one is to do work in higher quality, it is said that you do your job extremely well, it is also considered to be kind, effective, interconnected and so on not only professionally good, but to do a greater amount of work, which means that you have done more work than your colleagues or colleagues have done. At the same time, we are also introducing, we are proposing the Institute of Prosperity, which means that those automatic advances, which we now propose to be only five more classes, can be performed automatically but can be held if the worker fails to achieve the expected results of the work, if this happens again next year, we can also cancel the contract to such a worker because he has not achieved the expected results of the work. There is an opportunity already in the current payroll legislation, but it is only very difficult to use, but there is a possibility. The great reservation to the introduction of a new pay system or incentive work, I think, is also the reason why it has not been successful, is that the leaders have not played their part. For the present pay system is based on the determination of the leader, and is completely subjective. Therefore, in recent years, or in recent years, in negotiations to reduce wages, we have simply sacrificed these stimulating parts in the first place, because they have also proved that we do not agree to this either by the leader or by the workers, so that someone can determine how much I have earned. And that is why we are in a situation today that we have an average public sector assessment, I think, 4,93 out of a total of 5, which means that we are all more than excellent workers. And if you ask yourself, according to the estimates of this work, then we have the best public administration in the world, if you just judge by the estimates, we know that in practice it is not. In order to effectively carry out this assessment of the variable work, however, the key is to set goals and to set criteria that everything depends not only on the objective assessment of the leader, but that it is necessary for each payee to determine what is what distinguishes a good doctor from an excellent one, which distinguishes a good teacher from an excellent teacher. Therefore, the main content of the talks with trade unions this year is to agree on what the criteria for awarding performance are. Without criteria, it will not work because we do not really trust the leader's personal, subjective assessments. However, it is important that these criteria are also subject to leadership at all levels. Because I also need to achieve certain goals as a leader and achieve certain criteria. Maybe I could just briefly comment on the union's position. They reject the changes because the current system is focused on the job. These changes that we are proposing, and we want them to move gradually in the direction of work, so you don't get paid for the job, but you get paid for the job. I believe that this process will continue for a while, and we also need an intensive dialogue with the trade union side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorman? No, thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all the ministers. I will ask Minister Gasperšić a question about the second track of Divac-Koper, which has been given a lot of talks in the last period, including the home committee, but the topic is certainly important and it is right to keep this topic up to date. The fact is that we probably all agree that the second track is important both for railway infrastructure and for Luka Koper. And it is from this point of view that I am interested in how the ministry or the minister considers that at this last European invitation to tender, CEFU, in fact, lost its second track of co-financing. However, two projects in Austria and Italy, which in some ways are also important in this aspect of economic and logistical flows, have received a significant share of the money. I am talking about the railway network, which is being built between Celovac and Gradac, which later began to build as our second track, which has been practically installed since 1996. This project is known as the Coral track and is actually taking place on this corridor, which has in some way been reserved for the second track or link in this fifth rail corridor between Barcelona and Kiev, and this project has received funds at this point. Another important project is the Brenner tunnel, which means, clearly, a better connection of ports in the northern part of Italy towards the west, especially towards Munich and Bavaria, which may also mean that our port Koper's position is weakened, in this context clearly also a worse starting point for negotiations in obtaining funds for the second track. All these competing projects actually went through the sieve also because they actually had completed financial structures. In particular, in the Brenner project, Italy has earmarked €6 billion of its own resources, with 1.2 billion European funds. Similar calls or similar projects, which had large funds available but did not have completed financial structures within their own country, also fell on this call. That's why I want to know: How does the ministry and the minister view the timeline and financial design of the second course of the Divača-Koper project? Because the next call will be at the end of the year and the visa of all these facts is important how it will be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u263	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Krivec. Indeed, much has been said about the second track. I don't pretend there won't be much to tell. At the recent emergency meeting of the competent Infrastructure Committee, we have also dedicated this project to, I think, about 4 hours of time, although I am pleased to further explain the state of the project and what our plans are. With regard to the possibility of funding and then also the timeline, I would say that the government had already concluded and adopted certain conclusions on the way in which it financed in February. Among other things, it has decided that this project, due to the public-financial constraints in which our country is located, will also be financed in addition to the European funds that the State will acquire through the public-private partnership. In addition, it has adopted important conclusions on how to apply for these calls for European funds. Among other things, it has been decided to run the second track project in an open call for European funds, while other projects, which also need to be provided in this corridor to preserve this position of the nuclear corridor through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in short, in this part, and to apply for the national envelope. In this regard, therefore, in the state in which the project is currently located, it was possible to file the application at that time, as we have stated, that the financial structure envisaged the acquisition of a public-private partnership, which, of course, had not yet been obtained at that time, we also had to state, of course, that the building permits had not yet been fully obtained at that time. As to how the matter will proceed – you know that we have since February since then taken an intensive approach to the preparation of models of public-private partnership. To this end, an international transport forum, which operates within the OECD, was hired to prepare an analysis of possible models. This task is in the final stage, and this week we also expect a presentation of their analyses, results. On this basis, the working group, which was also set up to prepare these models, will then propose to the government possible forms of these public-private partnerships. On this basis, we plan to check our interest in these proposed forms of public-private partnerships in this autumn, and then a call for proposals will be made for that model of public-private partnership which will be shown the greatest interest. This will then be done in 2016. We expect that it will then be possible to select this private partner on the basis of this call at the beginning of 2017 and also to start building this project alone. In this interim period, however, we will also work intensively to obtain these European funds, so that the project will, of course, apply for the next open calls. I would also say here that the reason for not obtaining funds on this call is certainly not that this financial structure is not yet closed or that we do not yet have the building permits. On the basis of this criterion, of course, the project has been poorly assessed, but this is not an exclusive condition that the project does not acquire European funds. I can also say that, in fact, one of the important projects on this track that you mentioned did not receive European funding on this call, even though it is already in the construction phase, because they stated in the project that it will [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the budgetary resources, but the Commission has been assessed that this option is not realistic enough. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Krivec, are you requesting a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you, Minister Gaspersich, for those answers. I think they've added some more light to this whole issue. In some ways, I agree that this project of the Semmering railway tunnel on the Gradec-Dunai route has not actually received a green light because of the constraints in the national budget where the funds were not provided. From this very point of view, I am interested: How will we ensure – you are talking about a public-private partnership, which I agree with, but in a sense, given that, compared to the previous financial perspective of our envelope, we have even reduced and thus signaled to the European Union that we are not serious about our railway corridor – how will we convince in the next calls that this project is important to us, too, if we are reducing our own resources in this area? And second of all, I want to know: Do you think that it means faster construction of certain routes in our neighborhood and the completion of the Brenner tunnel is some potential danger that we will not get to certain European funds for the construction of another track in the next step? If we lose some strategic position in Porta Koper, it will be clear at that time that the criteria that the European Union uses for certain projects will also be irrelevant. That's why I'm interested in your vision of the visions of these issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I am certainly not satisfied, either, that the funds in the new financial perspective have been reduced in the light of the past, since these resources available for infrastructure have actually decreased, but we must live with this fact and we must carry out these projects in this context. Also in the face of the public financial situation, another option is to do everything in our power, so we are seriously working on acquiring a public-private partner, some other options, real ones, to carry out this project at this point in time. In fact, we will direct every effort and effort to win this private partner. In fact, I am not really blacksighted here, I am optimistic that this partner can be successfully gained, because the interest in participating in the project is expressed on many sides. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say possible, possible competition by other projects, I'm going to say, I don't want to burden myself with this right now. As we say, we want to focus all our strong efforts on our project. However, as regards the vision and development and competitiveness of Luka Koper, there will certainly be a lot of work to be done in Luka Koper itself in order to maintain this competitiveness and some position, the strategic position she has to become an entry window for the trans-shipment into Central and Eastern Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc and the Minister of Justice mags. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u269	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Madam Minister and distinguished Minister! One of the major problems in the Slovenian health system is certainly systemic corruption in public procurement, investment, the purchase of medical equipment, medicines and corruption in the waiting types themselves. For this reason, I refer to you the issue of the persecution of corruption in the Slovenian health system, because taxpayers are those who pay through voluntary or extra and compulsory insurance into this health-care facility, and are in some ways damaged by spillages, including by the corrupt actions of some individuals. In this case, public money must be more transparent for this public money. If I continue, I would like to touch one of the Slovenian doctors, who said not long ago that corruption in the Slovenian health system is about €500 million, again others argue that it is only a few 10 million euros. But look, in New Slovenia we talk as much as corruption, it's superfluous and it shouldn't be. That's why I want to know: How much do you think corruption is in the Slovenian health system? How is this operational plan to prosecute corruption in the Slovenian health system? How did they commit themselves to persecution? I also want to know: How much did you estimate the loss of budget at the annual level due to corruption? If you have any grades, I'd like to ask you. In doing so, I would like to point out that, on the basis of historical facts, remember, there is no longer a larger call in Slovenian health care to avoid being accompanied by a criminal investigation. That's why I'm asking: Where are the epilogues of these criminal investigations? And I will start with the period of criminal investigations with the suspicion of corruption in the procurement of operating tables, to continue with the latest criminal investigations in 2012, when it came to corruption in the procurement of medicines and so on. In doing so, I would like to point out that many times in the past, politics has given way to corruption. I am surprised that, with all the investigative commissions that we have already had in the past in the National Assembly at the expense of corruption in the Slovenian health system, no commission has yet been introduced. That's a real surprise. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you for this question, Mr Ambassador Vrtovec. Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to the assessment of the loss of budgetary resources at annual level due to health corruption, we do not have sufficient data to be able to make a credible assessment. I have said this several times in public that those who speak of 500 million or any other number should bring evidence and documents and we will be happy to do all the appropriate procedures or applications, if that is so. That's why I don't want to speculate and give any credit. As regards investigations into corruption proceedings, however, I must clarify that the Ministry of Health has not been actively involved in these judicial proceedings and, consequently, it is not clear at what stage of prosecution the individual proceedings are at stake that we cannot provide the relevant information. I think that the correct answer to this question must be addressed to the investigating authorities, the prosecutions and the courts, because the courts in charge of these proceedings also have the information on the epilogues. I think that's the right address for you to get the answers you want. It is important, we agree, to pay more attention to preventing corruption. This is why, during my term of office at the Ministry of Health, we pay very much attention to this, while at the same time advocating zero tolerance for corruption, and in this regard, we have already done a number of measures on a systemic level. For example, one example is that we have set technical standards and standards by which we have made a general public procurement for emergency equipment, where we have actually only saved by means of these technical standards, so to speak, from 9 million 3.3 million. I think that this is one good example of how it can be trained from this point of view or receive additional savings and prevent corruption. At the same time, we are in the final stage with the preparation of another common public procurement for medicines that will cover 65% of all medicines at the annual level for all hospitals. Only at the first joint public contract do I say that they were important savings, the estimates are from about 7 to 12 million. Of course, further savings are expected in this second joint public procurement. And perhaps briefly about corruption or inequality in dealing with the waiting lines you mentioned. I would like to clarify that, on the basis of the health inspector's inspections, it has been found that in these cases it is quite a mistake that individual organisational units do not manage the risk of unequal treatment, which is why we have joined the first phase to amend and supplement the existing rules on the management of waiting lists. We are making systematic changes to the Patient Rights Act because we have found that there are significant shortcomings. We will introduce e-procurement by establishing an electronicised waiting list for the whole of Slovenia. Then we will tighten the controls both by the Department of Health Insurance and the Health Inspectorate. On the basis of the pilot project, we will approach shortening the longest waiting periods, especially in those clinics where these waiting periods are the longest.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Will you give yourself a chance to Mr. Secretary? Are you asking me to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u273	Yes, well-respected colleagues and colleagues! But for the Minister of Justice, there are the same questions that I would like to answer, and I will give an additional one, namely: Have you considered launching any financial investigation into doctors and other staff for corruption, even after publishing various articles in one of the daily newspapers of the past month? I think there were five issues of these newspaper articles, which is supposed to be corrupt acts, and I am interested in any financial investigation from this title. I say that corruption in the Slovenian health system is very widespread and too little is being pursued. In fact, it has become acceptable in certain segments. You are also the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and in this regard I am also interested in the back if you can say anything about how this persecution has gone against corruption in the health system. For I also raise this question from one title, that the distinguished Minister of Health, at the very hearing before becoming Minister, said that some of the stakeholders in this healthcare system, if we remember correctly, were involved. I argue that these stakeholders, who take too much of the taxpayer's money on the basis of public procurement, procurement of medicines or whatever. We have to limit that. And also various lobbyist contacts, such as Mr. Zemljarič, with the director of UKC Ljubljana, who are almost public. This is part of the problem, not the part that someone can be involved, it's part of the problem that we need to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Member! Part of the answer to your question lies in your question. You said, "We talked a lot about health corruption in Slovenia, remember the operating tables." Do you know when the operating tables were? Fifteen years and more. Then the next question was 'and 2012 and 2013'. I will agree with you – corruption in Slovenian medicine has not been spoken of as such. That was taboo, anyway. It wasn't even investigated, there were no complaints, there was very little to talk about, say, 2010 and then back. I can't say anything else about corruption in Slovenian health care here, as I was saying when I was on KPK. It's systemic. Systemic corruption occurs everywhere where you have many meetings of private and public interest. And Slovenian health care, by the amount of money that goes from country to health, is thus one of the largest independent parts of the transfer of public money to private. And there are few systems where private and public interests are as intertwined as they are in health care, which is a systemic problem, because we have doctors of amphibians and so on, and we have also produced a special report on the KPK. We also asked you for information from the D.A. Several of them have already been told to you by Mr Furlan when we discussed the report. The 2012 and 2013 investigations, of course, have not yet had a judicial epilogue, because this is difficult in such complicated cases, impossible to bring to an end, at least not in the Slovenian system. At present, one issue is the preparation of a request for investigation, while three large-scale cases are still in the forecasting process and are being led by the NPU or the Crime Police Sector. As far as financial investigations are concerned, this possibility always exists and the decision is not on the Minister of Justice, but on the Special Prosecutor's Office, on the National Investigation Office, on the FURS, on the KPK. Right now, this tool, as we say, exists. However, from a systemic point of view, I think it is more important or equally important than the Minister's point of view. These technical standards and norms are a big step forward, and we have already warned about this in the KPK. Waiting species. One extensive analysis was also made. And in the final stage, the actual resolution of this Gordy knot of intertwining public and private in public health. And I'd just like to add more to the end. However, it must be said that, as far as the success of the prosecution against corruption is concerned, we are absolutely not where we should be and where we could be, but it is necessary to know that in 2014 alone there were more convictions than there were five years together. Unfortunately, it's still not in the health field.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Do you have a request for a procedure, Mr. Gardener? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u277	Yes, I agree that we would discuss this hot topic and discuss it at one of the meetings of the National Assembly. You said yourself it was systemic corruption. Systemic corruption is extremely difficult to prove and it is very difficult to prosecute, and I fully agree with that. However, we must, as we agree, talk aloud and seek solutions, including legislative solutions, if necessary. You mentioned that corruption has been very little talked about in recent years, and this is also, for example, the Oncology Institute, the water supply at the Oncology Institute, if you like, or the Paediatric Clinic and so on. Things are in between, corruption has been revealed, but epilogues are not or are very few. I want to say that these stakeholders who are fueling around the health registers are too much and we need to restrict them very soon, because on the one hand we have sick children for whom we collect the stoppers, if you want to, or arrange charity actions, and on the other hand this same money for medical bills instead of going for sick children or for climates in the Paediatric Clinic, climates at the Oncology Institute or even more, climates in the maternity ward itself, in the maternity wards, goes to certain individuals in their own pockets, to individuals who are also close to one part of Slovenian policy. Thank you very much and I hope that you will support me in my efforts to discuss corruption in the Slovenian healthcare system. So I appeal to you too to discuss these matters in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. Mr Franc Jurša will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all ministers and ministers! And I'm asking the Ministry of Environment and Space: How is the resolution of water-related applications? Madam Minister, I know that until your term of office, this issue has not been given too much weight or that the resolution of these applications has not been a priority. I am aware of the cases where in the 1980s and 1990s, when regulations were implemented in the course of the circulation of regulated land owners, the promised land exchange and purchases were never realized. That's why I want to know: Is there something going on in this area or is there any movement in dealing with these applications?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u281	Dear Vice President! Member of the Commission, Mr Franz Jurša, thank you for the question. With the adoption of the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the bodies of the composition of the ministries, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment was given jurisdiction in last December to manage water lands and began with the resolution of the applications of private law and local communities for exchange, redemption, sale of land held in official records as water land. This has been the case in recent years — as you yourself have mentioned — for many years when these applications were neither approved nor processed — 650 applications were made. The real estate plan for 2015 includes 100 of them, of which 20 have already been entered into legal transactions, currently in the 9 applications process and in the preparation of 70 contracts. However, the resolution of applications is slower than planned, also due to the problem that will be presented in more detail below. The Water Act in Article 11 defines inland water as certain parts of the land with the prescribed characteristics. This prescribed property is that there is water on them, so by law natural or built water are public good. This status is also included in the Land Book, but water lands may be owned by individuals of private or public law. Those owned by the State are not in legal traffic. Thus, in the case of the resolution of applications for cases where, due to possible interference with the watercourse or also to the natural functioning of the water, the stream has moved away, leaving some area in some part, and is itself a stream or a water source, paved the way for new land. And so, on the one hand, we have the former, the past waterland and, of course, now this new, water running through. This water land is usually in ownership status of these areas, so that a new shaft on land is in the private sector, while it is abandoned, in many cases it is already covered and in public good water land. And in such cases itself, it often occurs, is the contractor itself, that is, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, has encountered a problem, as notaries refuse to approve a contract without a decision or confirm an administrative unit, pursuant to Article 22 of the Agricultural Lands Act. On the basis of the land use certificates, they find that it is in accordance with Article 2 of the Agricultural Lands Act for purposeful use for agricultural land, which is also in nature now, since we have mentioned that it is a land where water is no longer present. However, this conclusion means that such land should be in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the Agricultural Lands Act, we are sometimes on the administrative unit said, and loaded on the notice board for 30 days and could be applied for purchase or exchange by anyone. And then, in accordance with the Agricultural Lands Act, it is determined who has the advantage of acquiring such land. The state doesn't have that advantage. We are therefore looking for an opportunity to resolve this conflict, as the Water Act states that it is a matter of the water land that the legislator wanted to settle with a specific law, Article 19 of the Water Act shows that the management of former water land is subordinated to the objective of establishing an optimum state of law as a result of the change in the location of water. The State is interested in owning water land and other persons own land that is not burdened by a restrictive water land regime. In this concept, the system of pre-emptive rights under the Agricultural Lands Act [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurša, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u283	I'm just gonna ask the secretary to answer my question to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u284	Good. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u285	This system of pre-emptive rights under the Agricultural Lands Act is a foreigner who equates the Water Act's objective. Therefore, a former water land intended for agricultural use may, by means of the Institute of Pre-Trial Rights, acquire a person outside the circle of persons defined in Article 19, paragraphs 4 and 5, on water. We are trying to take into account in the special regulation of water management, which is the category of actual use, and agricultural land, which is the category of actual and intended use, in particular the latter. But the legislator did not foresee the complications we encountered. It is necessary to determine whether both arrangements can be interpreted in a mutually consistent manner that eliminates the apparent conflict between the two laws or whether appropriate legislative changes need to be made. If it turns out that legal changes are needed, we will propose to implement them in the Agricultural Lands Act, as it is currently in the inter-sectoral coordination of the Proposal for Amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act, which would mean that during this year these 100 applications could be resolved and more actively devoted to the resolution of applications from 10 to 20 years of age, so 550 would remain in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you were at the Eurogroup meeting in Brussels on Saturday, and at this meeting, Christine Lagarde presented a so-called secret report on Greek debt. According to this secret report, according to Reuters 4 hours ago, Greek debt is not manageable or manageable if we agreed on a 30-year moratorium. In addition, Greece's debt after these reports is expected to be 200 % of the gross social product over 2 years and is in fact expected to be that much. You, as part of the Eurogroup, a respected minister, have decided differently, knowing this analysis, that this Greek debt should be irresistible in order to give these measures to the Greek government or whatever else, and, of course, to the Greek Parliament, which should have taken it by midnight tomorrow, some other measures. Here is, of course, the first question: What led you to this, as Minister of Finance, that you did not take into account or only partially took into account, or not at all, the secret IMF report presented to you by Mrs Lagarde on Saturday? At least that's the information. But it's a secret report that Reuters has obtained. In view of this report: How do you view the stability of the euro currency? Not how you view Greece's stability, but the stability of the euro's currency. How do you view the risk of that loan that Slovenia has given here? 270 million cash, and of course guarantees for about a billion. As you've given many times, we're the most exposed to comparisons with gross social ones. In short, I will say, for starters, there are some questions here, and I will of course also ask questions about how you see Greece settle this debt in a few days, as much as it has, as much as it falls on Monday and then a little more end of July and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u289	Dear Member, thank you for asking. I just flew in from Brussels, so I can give you first-hand information. These negotiations ran from Saturday to practically yesterday because we had another Eurogroup. The basic logic of these negotiations was to weigh whether to respond at all to the request made by Greece in relation to the third programme, which requires funds from this European stabilisation mechanism, or simply to conclude a story that would end in this so-called plan B or grexit. The negotiations have been extremely tiring all night. The basic problem we were facing was trust in the Greek government, in the Greek Parliament and in fact whether, what would be agreed and what would be written and what would be accepted would be respected or not. Because in the past there have been so many times through two programmes and then an extension of the programme, so many times that what was agreed has not been done. Nevertheless, the view prevailed that the risks to the euro area, but especially to Greece, and then not only the risks that are of a financial nature, but also geostrategic and other aspects, were greater if Greece left the Eurosystem, we put all our efforts into a sequence of events in which Greece could somehow prove that it is trustworthy. What was adopted was, in fact, the following: first, some measures, a list of measures to be taken by Wednesday, as you mentioned, Greece, if it does not take them, is Plan B. This is so-called a way out of this situation, as is now the case – some of the legal changes, directly six areas there, and also a commitment to further changes, where there is a whole list of these necessary steps that Parliament must take as a list. We will find out tomorrow, it is Wednesday 15th, and if these commitments are accepted, then we will only go to the next phase, to the stage of reaching agreement across countries, in order to begin negotiations on whether or not the programme will be actually made. Some countries have very difficult procedures to accept. Then, if this is approved by all countries, we will only go through this negotiation for this memorandum, which is then the basis for when it is accepted by all countries and accepted by Greece, is the basis only then, this is the third programme and the basis for getting the money. From this point of view, I must say that there are still so many people from today who need to be positively responsible, that there will even be this third programme, that through this process we have tried to secure so many assurances from the Greek side that this trust, which has been completely destroyed, will be so great that it can then begin to conclude on this programme or not. Of course, there were also discussions, if the third programme were, how much funding would be needed, and here are these numbers, they are now public. And the question was also how sustainability of debt, which is just one of the three points that need to be defined. In this regard, also in this report of the International Monetary Fund, which you mentioned, a secret report, where the final result is simply that Greece’s long-term ability to repay these loans is questionable. But this wasn't part of this negotiation, because it's only phase three.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mag. Spreadel, you're requesting a follow-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u291	Look, Minister, there's no negotiation there, there's no negotiation at these meetings to say what's wanted of the country, and, of course, to tell her whether or not it's accepted. And part of this report is the IMF report. There is Mrs Lagarde sitting, Mr Draghi, sitting on the European Commission, who is usually the Vice-President now, and this is where it says, "And so it will be." And then Germany, and then France, and then some other countries come forward and say, "That's how it's going to be." So here these mysterious meetings of the Eurogroup are very clearly conceived and very clearly guided and very clearly knows what must come out in the end. So here, I mean, the matter is very clear, but fine, if you're saying it's just gonna start negotiating and so on. Of course, I want to know: What does this mean for Slovenia, and what does this mean for the euro? What does this mean for the transitional period until August of this year, when Greece has to return 7 billion when it falls to 7 billion or Monday, today is Tuesday, until Monday, when it has to return 4.2 billion? Will this be financed by the so-called EFSM mechanism, which includes non-Eurogroup countries here? This Mechanism — Is It a Risk? Here I have to say that George Osborne, this is the United Kingdom finance minister or the United Kingdom, has already announced that he is not going to do this. In other words, then say to the Minister: How will Greece return 4.1 billion on Monday? And that there will be no additional obligations of members of the euro either through the central bank or through this mechanism that I have mentioned, or through any other mechanism or through anything, a bilateral treaty, for example. Of course, here's the question. You're part of this team that decides there. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u293	To explain how it went. Because, as I said, this mistrust is relatively high, in the first round, each of the countries said what it would require of Greece so that this confidence could be established. So in the first phase, we came up with a list of demands. Then a draft was developed, made a proposal. Following this proposal, the point-by-point negotiations were held with the representative of Greece. That was unusual. This was not normal, because otherwise it is more or less like you say that you essentially prepare a list in advance and then take it to the table and such it or leave it – leave or take it. In this case this was not the case because these requirements were very difficult, some of them were extremely difficult. And let's say in the final request that the Greeks allocate part of their national assets to a special fund, which is also under the control of the European Commission, this has been negotiated practically all night because it was a question of sovereignty and so on. In fact, negotiations have been held here this time for that big table, which has not been the case until now. With regard to this funding in the interim period, this is from this point when, say, Greece has met these first requirements on Wednesday, and by the time the programme is adopted, and that those commitments you mentioned fall and that the state would not enter bankruptcy, in practice, in this inability to pay its obligations, this interim funding is indeed necessary. For this interim funding, I must admit, there have been a lot of options, and for every possibility where there are problems. And this is not only this system, what you mentioned – the EFSM, but then there are other possible ways, but everyone has a legal problem, either that it cannot be done so quickly, or that there is a need to agree whether to go to the parliaments and so on, or that it is legally impossible to apply for this purpose at all. So now a special group, a technical group, is studying this and trying to find some ways to prevent Greece from going to the so-called default. I didn't work here. At present, technical groups working on this need to come up with a solution by the time it is determined whether or not they meet the requirements. Whether this is acceptable to us or not, we will have Eurogroups now in advance virtually every day after the teleconference or I will have to go back to Brussels.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Spread out, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u295	Gradually, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there is a need for a general debate on this. I think that this debate in the National Assembly is likely to take place before the first next meeting in September or October is due to this, not so much because of this reply from the Minister of Finance, which is, of course, corrected, but certainly does not respond to all that he should. Slovenia is part of the euro and Slovenia is also at risk, including other countries, of losing the euro in power, of course in the financial markets of this country in a worse position. In short, we are in a new period when, as we are now hearing, they do not even know how they will give Greece 4.1 billion by Monday, and the whole of the Eurogroup, and the whole of the ECB. And not only that, of course, the responsibility of the ECB must also be established in this debate. See, under Article 7 of the Statute of the European Central Bank, this is the most independent institution. In fact, it should not be in the Eurogroup at all, because it must not take any decisions from the European Commission or from anyone. Of course, the ECB has to say on which methodologies and so on, of course, are now allowed for Greece to raise €60, by which key and so on, because the ECB is supplying Greek banks with euro. So this situation needs to be looked at here as well. Not only because of this, but because, for the first time, security is guaranteed that the stability of the euro will be ensured, and of course because citizens and citizens will know what currency they are actually operating with. For this reason, of course, I propose once again a general debate. I even estimate that this debate will take place sooner. The minister had already announced that he would get to know the National Assembly, although that is not necessary to give Greece additional money – 82 to 84 billion would give to all these countries. See, one share will also be given by Slovenia, not by Slovenia, but by Slovenian taxpayers and Slovenian taxpayers. And at least they have the right to know where this money is going, if, of course, it is already decided on behalf of them either in Brussels or Frankfurt or Ljubljana. That is why I think this debate will be useful and, of course, I propose it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj, your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mrs Marija Bačič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u297	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Nicely greeted Minister and Minister! Madam Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, in the media, your project of assistance to the most socially vulnerable citizens, which covers both debt write-offs and employment assistance and the introduction of a prepaid card, has been increasingly being established. It is clear that this form of debt relief is a kind of social agreement between the government and creditors, as creditors will voluntarily approach debt write-offs. The most socially vulnerable citizens are provided with this agreement to write off debts arising from household expenses or regular living expenses. However, the Law on the conditions for the implementation of debt relief measures, which, inter alia, simplifies related procedures and eliminates additional costs, is already in the national assembly procedure. The law is necessary because, under the applicable tax legislation, debt relief can be regarded as a different income and is taxed, meaning that income must be paid for it, so it is necessary to regulate the conditions for debt relief not to entail additional costs for debtors and creditors. I want to know: What stage is this project currently at? When will citizens and citizens benefit from the aid measures you are preparing? How will the debt cancellation agreement be expressed in practice? How will the implementation of the Law on the conditions for the implementation of the debt write-off measure help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u299	Thank you for the question, honourable Member Maria Bachič. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! We will talk a lot about this on Friday, when we have a key basis, both in the parent committee and in the National Assembly, for the consideration of the Law on the Conditions for the Enforcement of Debt Relief, which, as already stated in the question, is a key basis for this work in particular, in order to ensure that discharge is tax neutral, if I say simply, dealt with. So if it really wasn't for those who, on a voluntary basis, had been the target all along, it wouldn't have caused any additional costs. In fact, if the existing legislation on income and tax procedure did not allow this to happen, it would be for those who would write off, for businesses to pay a deposit, and for people to do so to be profitable, so we would not do what we wanted to do, but that is to say that we should step down together and simply write off debts that are irrevocable and help people, while in fact we are not causing essential costs to businesses and others, in fact, because they are incurable debts. So it's mainly about walking together without knowing any additional costs, but it's primarily about the good will of everyone to do it together. Therefore, from February onwards, the aim has been to create a sufficient number of businesses that are willing to approach this through discussions, with some confidence-building. So Monday next week, 20. 7. However, it is envisaged that this agreement will be signed on Friday, which is the basis for what will be adopted in the law and can also be implemented. It is still crucial that companies accede to the signing of the debt relief agreement. We still have the last coordination this week, because we want to harmonise the amendments, which we will of course get to know you, in the final stage of the National Assembly. Meetings were held with the Community of Municipalities, the Union of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, today with electric companies, with humanitarian organisations, so that we are leading this project widely towards the end with all stakeholders. It must be said, however, that they will be included in this agreement by electricity companies, energy companies, municipal companies, municipalities will be included primarily as owners of municipal enterprises, and write-offs are envisaged as regards debts related to kindergartens and nutrition. On the other hand, the FURS State will write off tax debts and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs owes debt to people who have incurred excessively paid social assistance to a protective allowance or a child allowance. It is, of course, that there are different categories because we want this debt write-off for the most vulnerable. This is also agreed on at all times with all those who enter this, these will be recipients of cash social assistance, a protective allowance, a veteran supplement and also recipients of a child supplement, namely first class, second class, and in the case of families receiving a third class, if they also have an allowance for a large family or a decision to care for a child. So a relatively wide circle of people, about 100,000 people we're talking about. We will also ensure the simplest possible implementation in the sense that we will help businesses implement everything together. We are aware, however, that this is a large supply that we will lead along with them. However, it is also important to establish which debts can be written off, namely, the proposal states that the debts on the 31st day are due. 12. 2014 is more than one year of maturity, i.e. in fact, debt incurred in 2013, 2012 or earlier. Why is that? Because we didn't want to create moral gambling. The communication value of this project did not in any way want to be that the bills should not be paid, that it is in any way related, but it is about cleaning up for the return in some way to people who failed to do so during the crisis and, of course, are recipients of these benefits, which show that they are most at risk. However, since this is a comprehensive package, it is also a social activation programme, a work programme and another broader issue, because we are aware of the fact that, although the debt will be partially written off, of course, after the cancellation, the story will not be finished and we will not solve all human problems, but we will partially reduce their problems. But the key is that it is voluntary and that all together [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] So the state, the municipalities and the companies. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Here's a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I see the project is going in the right direction. I'd also like you to explain to us about the prepaid cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u302	Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. This package is about debt write-offs, where there's one pillar. The second pillar is in particular what you have already adopted in the National Assembly, what the Ministry of Justice has proposed, this is the social novelty of the Law on Enforcement, where we have prevented banks from charging views, and arranged that no enforcement is possible on this veterinary supplement as well. In short, it's this social novel. At the same time, unfortunately, we are faced with some of the bank accounts being closed, so it is essential that we also establish a prepaid card project where citizens and citizens who decide will be able to obtain a prepaid card where they will have social transfers and with which they may also have limited withdrawals on ATMs. In fact, it will be a payment card that will enable them if they do not have a current account to operate normally in the financial world, if I say so. This is one of the important things we've been trying to work out for a long time. I hope that the banks will sign up for the call we signed up for at the Ministry. I think it's call two. Seven. Outside. We count that if everything was right, this prepaid card would be provided by the end of the year. You need to know that about 10,000 people have problems with blocked accounts in one way or another, that they are recipients of these state social transfers. So this is going to help this group of people. The third part of the package, which may be the most interesting, is mainly the extended families from which this whole project came out. But here we have actually activated the current possible 12 apartments. Lesnina, d.o.o., will equip all these apartments for free. Above all, we want to work together. The agreement is with humanitarian organisations, the Red Cross, Karitas and the Alliance of Youth Friends to work together, in particular so that they can allocate these apartments and also take care of these people, especially families, who today in their local environment, because the law, housing law clearly determines the competences of those who have to provide them, and these are the congregations, but some of these capacities are not sufficient, so that at this point the twelve apartments will serve to help families not to be displaced, so that they are actively assisted by the Red Cross, Karitas and the Union of Youth Friends in the assistance programme, to resolve the situation that has led the family to this situation that it has been deposed. This project actually establishes a social housing fund for crisis accommodation for depositors in cooperation with non-governmental or humanitarian organisations. This is also one of the experiences that is very positive that with some positive will we can reach an agreement. Companies will also donate funds. It's a really interesting project. It will also be public next week [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u305	Thank you for your word. Hello to the Minister! During the previous week, the public, or especially the elementary school, excited the situation with regard to textbooks in primary schools. On the Education Committee, we have worked on this topic to prepare certain measures, but most of the textbooks in the school funds are inadequate according to the curriculum and also given that they are already, we can say, obsolete and, as I have said, invalid. But the principals got, I think, 14 days ago, a notice of how much money they're going to get for replacing these textbooks. One of the principals writes that the value of buying textbooks was only those missing textbooks that they really needed, about a thousand 100 euros, and the ministry approved them somewhere 10%, that is, 110 euros about not to be in the correct numbers. They ask themselves whether the Ministry expects them to get money elsewhere, but they provide it from that fund they receive from the primary schools to operate or charge their parents, which is, of course, rather unserious by the Ministry, if that is the way of thinking. In fact, they are also dealing with other issues, of course, the finances are falling, schools are getting fewer and the ministry is somehow assigning them new and new tasks. I have already touched on the questions of optional selection, which were also given in 2013 without additional funding, then the foreign language in the first triad and so on. My question is: Will the Ministry, with any additional financial incentives, provide primary schools with financial resources so that they can purchase the most necessary textbooks for teaching? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u307	Dear President, honourable Member! I will provide up-to-date information, especially given that we are also very active in recent weeks, both with representatives of the Association of Directors and, of course, with publishers and our professional colleagues, to solve this current problem. 26. 6. All schools provided the current needs for the replacement of textbooks, in line with the decision of the expert council at the end of May, the third triad was updated. This was also the common agreement of all stakeholders. On this basis, schools have now highlighted all the most pressing needs, as you yourself have mentioned. These needs for all schools that have entered current data amount to EUR 3 million 100,000. In line with this, since the Ministry has already provided 2 million funds for this purpose, we have also provided a circular, and we have also been with all the participating groups in the active commitment, so that by the end of July we will be able to tell exactly how all of these needs will also be provided and with what wage dynamics. This means that schools will be given specific instructions in advance of those actual serious vacations as to how we will deal with or deal with all the actual needs, and that is all the needs they have entered on the day, 26. 6. This is also an agreement with representatives of the Association of Directors and, of course, publishers, who must then carry out a very difficult task in order to provide textbooks by 1 September. I know that in different ways from different angles, then a few interpretations of those circles that schools have received have been given, but this is now the actual state of the art and, of course, our assurance that we are really trying to ensure that we are also updating textbooks in the light of the reported needs, because we are aware that this is something that is really necessary to have on tables 1. September. Above all, we are aware that we are facing the challenge of a comprehensive model for the resolution of textbook funds, particularly in relation to the learning plans of the systemic approach and the gradual resolution with serious consideration. That is why we have already set up a working group, composed of representatives of parents, directors, publishers, experts, with whom we will start at the end of our vacations to find the best concept to solve the teaching policy and, of course, to consider how this learning material will not only be systematically updated, but also to allow for other forms of learning materials, such as various e-completions, e-learning books, where it seems prudent and meaningful or necessary, and in this way to solve this situation systematically over the past ten years. You know that the validity of textbooks simply extended, but, of course, the funds themselves were not being renewed. Here we will establish a dialogue with both parents and, of course, representatives of the profession and everyone else to find some balanced mechanism that would, of course, provide good textbooks, current textbooks and, of course, also reduce this unpredictability that has certainly been given to schools in recent months. I don't think anyone wants that anymore, even in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chus will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u309	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, especially Minister Klemenčič! Today, I am repeating the oral question I posed two months ago, and I do not know why I have been unable to obtain an answer to the meeting of the National Assembly until today. Two months ago, I pointed out that I wanted to get an answer as soon as possible, so of course I also gave a role or a request for a written answer in this desire, but as has been said, this has not been the case until today. I have put several oral questions on this subject, including written questions. I'll talk about the floods of the Drava River in 2012. The floods of Drava on 5 and 6 November 2012 affected over 8 000 Slovenes and Slovenes all from Dravograd, and if we go all the way to Gorišnica, Markovci and could still list. But the damage was exceptional. It was a real disaster, a natural disaster, in which a human factor was also responsible. The damage in Slovenia was then EUR 373 million. We agree that this is an extremely high financial resource when we are talking here in the National Assembly and we are somehow trying to crack 500 000 euros, by a million euros, I can't imagine what 373 million euros represents. I want to know: How will you, as Minister of Justice, work to ensure that justice is satisfied that those who have released water from Austria will be responsible for this and, of course, compensate for the damage? How will state defence play its role in ensuring the rule of law and constitutional rights? At the end of this first part of the debate, let me remind you that on 6 November this year all the deadlines to be applied for compensation actions against those responsible for these floods will expire, and there is no longer much time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Member, I really apologize to you for not having received an answer before, a written reply in particular, because we should have received it, it was obviously a miscalculation on our part, and much more so because I cannot give you a comprehensive answer, because our ministry is not directly involved in this area. However, it is held that it is indirectly through the State's Attorney's Office. As you are probably aware, the Government has set up a special working and negotiating group on the consequences of the Drava flood in 2012, led by the Ministry of Environment and Space. This working and negotiating group, led by the Ministry of Environment and Space, also includes the State Defence, the Drava Power Plants and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The State's defence cannot, it has no jurisdiction, on behalf of the affected people – and in fact, it is entirely up to you to agree that there has been great damage – leading, say, compensation procedures or negotiations with those responsible in Austria. However, it helps with professional and legal bases, and as far as I have been informed by my colleague, this working group and the negotiating group have made some progress. I can't say any more at this point, because the information I have acquired is from another hand and because these negotiations are still ongoing. However, the options are for possible extensions of deadlines, possible settlements, private actions and so on. So far, so much for me. However, as far as possible, I am informed that I am actively involved in the assistance and in the preparation of professional bases for the enforcement of this liability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, please make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u313	Yeah, hold on. I thank you for the first part of the answer. I would like to say that when I asked the Minister of the Environment an oral question, I was also invited to meet with the Ministry of the Environment at that time. There I became acquainted with chronology after years, after days, after months, and I must say that all the problems are already quite familiar to me. However, I could not get past the data when I heard that the State Defence Office was supposed to propose that interstate negotiations with neighbouring Austria be opened and that neighbouring Austria be required to pay for damage exclusively on public infrastructure. In fact, when I heard that, at first I couldn't believe it, because I got the feeling, if it's as true as the State's Attorney's Office is proposing, we're going to leave all these injured people, all these 8,000 people at risk. On the other hand, the injured said themselves, we just want to get an analysis of how we can file lawsuits against the one who is supposed to flush the water. And what happened? We get answers that all this internal material is the government and simply cannot get the injured to any document that could make these requests. There have already been reports against an unknown perpetrator in Gorišnica at the police station in Moškanjci, and the prosecution has said that if there is not enough evidence, it has also been filed in Celovac, and there the judge has said that it must first decide at which stage this is resolved or which court is responsible for it. And November 6, 2015 will be here. After a parliamentary holiday we have a month or two, and I must say that I am obviously disappointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mag. Klemenice, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u315	Thank you very much. That's all I'd add. As far as the Attorney-General's Office is concerned, their position, which you have highlighted, is that you know the matter better than I do — I mean, honestly — is understandable in some way. The State's Attorney's Office is a state's attorney, and in this sense, for example, infrastructure. However, I believe that the work is also being done in the eyes and in the eyes of individual individuals, harming people in this rural area. Frankly, I've talked about this a little longer with the competent minister before, I believe, given what she told me, that she's working quite actively and intensely towards solving these things. What we can do, however, at the Ministry of Justice in relation to the State's defence, I will do, I promise, on this particular case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u316	Mr. Chus Andrey, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u317	Yeah, hold on. Perhaps the initial task of the State's defence was indeed that it was a state's attorney, but the State's defence is also paid from taxes and funds provided by citizens and citizens. And in this light, I would also think that the State's defence would be in the service of all citizens and citizens, so I am giving a procedural debate on the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Above all, I would like to give this mainly in order for Slovenian policy to come together and find the best possible solutions not only for the country, but also for all 8,000 people who lost overnight all the assets they had, houses and so on. The problem is exceptional, and here I think we should not look at who is proposing it and what customer it is from, but given that we already have a timeline that is not very nice to us, I would really like to ask that we forget about it a little bit and step together, and let us do something as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chuš, your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Dr. Jasna Murgel will ask the Minister of Health, Maria Mileyka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, as you are probably aware, we were 19 this year. 3. Joint Meeting of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Health Committee, where we had a broad debate on integrated treatment and regulation of the situation of children with special needs. At this meeting, conclusions were adopted which instructed the three competent ministries, i.e. education, health and social services, to deal in an integrated manner with this problem of regulating the situation of children with special needs. I hope that there is something going on in this area, and we are working on it somehow. Now, on one more specific issue, which we have also discussed on these two committees, at this meeting a pediatrician Dr. Tadej Aucin, who is a pediatrician at the Paediatric Clinic and a member of the Health Council, as well as a member of the Expanded Faculty of Paediatrics at the Ministry of Health, pointed out that the field of handling of children with special needs is not fully regulated. He also said that the Permanent Expert Group on Children with Developmental Disorders had drawn up a proposal for a comprehensive treatment of children with special needs, with the key to expanding teams in development clinics. According to him, this proposal has already been addressed at the Expanded Faculty of Paediatrics and a revised version of this proposal has also been adopted. Therefore, since the proposal is supposed to be in the stage of the Health Council hearing, I ask you the following questions: Has the proposal for an integrated treatment of children with special needs prepared by this Standing Expert Group on Children with Developmental Disorders already been adopted in the Health Council? Has the Health Council already addressed the problem of the need to increase the number of physiotherapy for children with special needs? We know that this is one of the most exposed problems in development clinics. What solution has the Health Council adopted? In what way will the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance take into account the conclusions of the Health Council in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u321	Thank you for your word, Your Honor, Mr Vice President. Madam Ambassador, the other Members! It is true that there was a joint committee meeting in March, and I must say that all three ministries are working intensively on the subject and are preparing material, so that we will implement these conclusions and find out where the entry point will be for all these children with special needs. Now let me answer your very specific questions. The Permanent Expert Group on Children with Developmental Disorders in the Expansion of the Faculty of Paediatrics prepared a new proposal to extend the programme of integrated treatment of children with developmental disorders in the development clinics and sent this proposal to the Health Council on 26 February this year. On 18 June this year, said less than a month ago, the President of the Health Council informed the proposer that the Commission, with an assessment of the applications, had in principle supported the programme for the expansion of development ambulance teams, but considered that further clarifications were needed, which would be most evident when the applicant prepared the clinical route and completed the role in the new form. Professional proposals from extended professional colleges that affect the content and scope of healthcare, which, of course, also addresses health policy and funding, treats and endorses the Health Council as the highest professional coordinating body in the field of healthcare. Thus, the Health Council shall develop the content of health programmes, their feasibility, the uniform development of all professions and the principles of equal accessibility. The Health Council will address the increase in the number of physiotherapy for children with special needs in development clinics under the already mentioned proposal for enlargement, as this is not an independent programme and no specific decision is required. The increase in the number of physiotherapy for children with special needs in development clinics does not therefore need to be defined as a new health programme, and therefore there is no particular need for the Health Council to decide on this on its own. However, I am pleased to tell you that we have already unanimously accepted the proposal of the Association of Health Institutions in the arbitration for the general agreement for the 2015 contract year, and we have increased the human resources standard for all operators with a standard development programme by one neuropsycho-physi-therapist. And as you know, the Government has already adopted a general agreement, and tomorrow, the Assembly of the Health Insurance Institute, where funds are also provided within the financial plan for these programmes, or for this additional neurophysotherapist, about EUR 650 000. And as soon as this agreement is confirmed in the congregation and the plan is rebalanced, this physiotherapist will be able to approve and go into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the finance minister Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u323	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a question regarding the issue of a five-year bond of EUR 100 million issued by SDH days ago. I am particularly interested in the reasons for issuing these bonds in this amount of EUR 100 million. What is the position of the Ministry of Finance until these bonds are issued? Is one of the reasons for issuing these bonds also the proposal for classification of investments prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance, and therefore, I would say, this is one of the evidence that, in this proposal, the SDH classification currently under way from its liquidity assets cannot meet the obligations imposed by the Denationalisation Act and the Law on Victims of War and Post-war Violence, to which we have already warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party a long time ago?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u325	Dear Member, mag. Marko Pogačnik, SDH began the process of refinancing and reprogramming the existing long-term liabilities due in 2015 and 2016 at a total of EUR 455 million and are secured by the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia at the beginning of this year. The SDH assessed that the inflows from the sale of capital investments, including inflows of the first privatisation package, would not be sufficient to settle the outstanding long-term loans and legal obligations. On 23 January this year, the Ministry of Finance issued an agreement to initiate a total debt procedure of up to EUR 455 million, either by borrowing from business banks or by issuing debt securities, i.e. bonds without the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. Following the implementation of the procedure and the acquisition of tenders, SDH made the following findings for both the long-term liability of business banks and the organisation of the issuance of debt securities. Business banks are prepared to extend existing liabilities due to payment in 2015, which are collateral with a guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 300 million, that is to say under the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for liabilities of SDH of EUR 300 million for leased loans and issued bonds to finance the Court. In 2010, it is possible to extend existing commitments and guarantees for a period of two years. In addition, they obtained offers for the organisation of the issuance of debt securities and assessed that they could thus refinance and at the same time extend the debts due in 2016 and cannot be extended by the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. The volume of the issue was estimated at up to €150 million. The bond was successfully issued at a rate of EUR 100 million at a coupon fixed rate of 2.5 % and will be intended to repay existing debts due in 2016. This includes 135 million of these liabilities with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia leased at interest rates of 3- or 6-month Eurosystem plus 2.4 to 3.35%. The bonds were issued without State guarantee, which I've already said. In view of the fact that SDH was able to repay the issue of bonds at an appropriate amount, with a favourable interest rate and without State guarantees, I believe that SDH’s debt by issuing the bonds was prudent. The refinancing of the remaining financial liabilities due in 2016 will be carried out gradually, in line with the evolution of the settlement of commitments and the liquidity of the SDH plan. We are aware that the capital investment management strategy that has just been adopted partially interferes with SDH's free use of its capital investments, so we are planning to replace the portfolio, investments between the Republic of Slovenia and SDH at the end of 2016 and 2017, which will ensure the appropriate liquidity of SDH to cover obligations under the laws adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u327	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. At the problem conference in Lipica on 23. 6. 2015 Your Secretary of State, Mr Marenče, could not explain which of the proposed SDH scenarios is acceptable to the agricultural ministry and when your decision can be expected. Of course, in both cases, the Secretary of State explained extensively how the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is the most important horse and how it is well taken care of in Kobilana Lipica. In 2014, the public office of Kobilarn Lipica did not agree to all the jobs in accordance with the 2014 Staff Plan of the approved work programme, although there were no formal reasons to prevent this. In the event that recruitment and training problems in the field of cavalry do not begin to resolve urgent problems, the implementation of the breeding programme will not only be compromised, but also by the Leipzig riding school programme. In the area of maintenance due to the unaccepted work programme and the lack of resources, they have not been able to provide new machines and are in such a state that their maintenance is no longer economically justified. In the absence of a loader, for example, it was necessary to hire an external contractor for the transport and handling of barn manure and the same situation is in the basket. I don't have time to list everything I can, so I'm asking you: I wonder why the decision on the further organisation of Lipica Turizem, d. o. o. has not yet been taken. What will be the relationship and cooperation with the Public Institute of Kobilar Lipica? How do you imagine the successful operation and marketing of both entities operating in the protected area in Lipica? When exactly can we expect a decision on the future fate of Lipica as a whole? Why do you insist only on two or even more bodies in the Lipica area at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but if everyone present at the Lipica conference has found that Lipica can be successful as a whole, with all activities, as is the case with all comparable cobial farms in Europe? If I add to this the fact that without yours and our knowledge, the horse of Lipica has entered Unesco's cultural heritage in Austria, I rightly ask myself: Is the horse of the Lipica under your ministry really as much taken care of as it has ever been? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u329	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for your important question, which I am looking forward to. I must say, you've been misinformed, the Spanish riding school is not listed as a UNESCO cultural heritage, but it's in the registration phase. The fact is, at the registration stage, she also had a sentence written down, which by now we have already been able to understand in the talks in both countries as wrong, and this sentence in the withdrawal procedure. So from this moment forward, of course Slovenia will be careful, everything is going as agreed, but the Spanish riding school as such, without a disputed sentence, is not disputed for us. I must also say that the project of all European cobillaries is continuing, but that they will join the Lipican as a fundamental heritage in Unesc's list, which I think if we succeed, it will be a real indicator of good cooperation. Perhaps important information – not only for 2014, but also the 2015 programme – also allows employment, but, of course, it is necessary to require that Kobilna Lipica, as a public institution, should act rationally. The Ministry itself provides, as has been the case so far, EUR 2.8 million for the operation of both cobalarium and other public services required for the needs of the cultural landscape, we have provided an additional quarter of a million this year, so that the investment projects under way can take place smoothly. But what's particularly important is the following. I, as well as I believe you, Member, are familiar with the multi-annual fate of Lipica, what happened in 2007, what happened in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. I have to say that after almost decades of living, as far as Kobilarna is concerned – the essence of the kidney in Lipica is colloidal – things are moving very positively, the horse as such is safe, especially from a breeding point of view, it is necessary to say that we are following genetic goals there. There are a lot of investments, five important projects are under way. I have to mention them because they all affect the quality of the location itself and I believe that in the next step, the visit will also be raised. At this point, the building is being renovated for a million and a half euros, the renovation of buildings and the construction of a museum of carriages, karst huts and museum cuisine worth 710 thousand euros. Then set C – Revitalisation of cultural heritage and regulation of external surfaces, arrangements for external lighting and optics and construction of the cleaning plant. So the movements are visible as well as visible if you visit this location. As for the government’s position on the SDH proposal – the position is emerging, the ministry itself has already given its opinion in government coordination. I will try, but it is not only up to me to accept this document from the Government. However, I would very much like to draw your attention to the opinion of the Legislative Service that the person who plays the role is the owner, that is to say that he has the responsibility of the owner, that is, SDH some decisions must be made in accordance with his powers, not that he asks for business decisions only by the government, and this is a very clear position of the Government's Office of Law. Allow me to tell you, too, of the views of both the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as the Ministry, the basis of this location, the protected location in Lipica is Lipicanec. everything else is a secondary and tertiary activity. Why does the ministry think that combining tourism itself with the public service would be wrong? Because we have a decades-old experience. We know where this experience has led, and this experience has endangered the lipics like a horse. And I hope that we will not repeat such experiences in the future. But I agree with you fully on the following, Lipica as a space needs one point to be marketed. Our proposal to the Government and also to the public office is that the function of professional marketing of the location, inviting guests to the location of Lipica will be taken over by the cobalan as a public institution itself. I want this job done professionally and not amateurally. Of course, we expect that the hotel which is at this location, but part of this function, which will then be carried out by the public office, will also be co-financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u331	Thank you for your word. But Mr. Minister, the problem of Lipica tourism, d.o.o., is also your problem, because it is you or your ministry that proposed last September to the Council of the Public Institute the proposal to decide that Lipica tourism, d.o.o., will be transferred free of charge from the Public Institute of Kobalna Lipica to the Republic of Slovenia. I really want to know: On the basis of what analyses and arguments, have you withdrawn such proposals, proposed to the world the Public Institute of Kobilarna Lipica? Why do you avoid answers regarding the situation in Lipica tourism, d.o.o., since the company has tried your Ministry to decide on the free transfer to SDH and your Ministry’s representatives in the public service world have ensured that the transfer of company to SDH is the best solution for society, suppliers and especially employees? Nevertheless, we have been following the agony of Lipica tourism for more than half a year now. And it is you, or your ministry, who has proposed to the Government a proposal to have the Government take over the business share of the Public Institute of Kobilarna Lipica and transfer it as a strategic investment in the management of the Slovenian State Holding. I really want to know: Based on what analyses and arguments did you do this, and how do you imagine this solution to go forward? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u333	Thank you, Chairman. I must say that I look forward to this debate, because I believe that if there is enough time, we will finally find that there are some activities at the Lipice site that are in the public interest. Of course, the most important activity to me is the breeding of horses and the care of the Lipican, the second most important activity is the care for the cultural landscape and the cultural heritage, which is particularly expressed. You will agree, probably that tourism, attracting guests, please them and then charge them also is not a public activity. This is a simple economic activity, which must not count on it to continue to exhaust Kobilina Lipica by its poor functioning. And with that, the country. What was going on, why was it necessary for Lipica to take tourism, d.o.o., transferred to SDH and sought a new path? Because last year too, Lipica’s tourism — not paying the rent — was back in business as well as all the years ahead. Although, if we look at 2007, if we look at the history, for what purpose it was established, it was set up to operate profitablely and to transfer part of the profits to the parent company and to partially burden the country. But the effect was wrong. And as you know, only Lipico tourism, d.o.o., has been recapitalised in the meantime, some procedures are under way in this regard. Once again, if I believe that there is a consensus in Slovenia that Lipica is a matter of general public and public interest, if the cultural heritage in Lipica is a matter of public interest, I believe that we will also be able to reach agreement that the exercise of ordinary tourist activities is purely economic activity. I believe that, according to the conclusions – I hope that the Government will accept them as soon as possible – will give Lipica tourism, d. o.o., the possibility of living, doing well, and if she continues to do bad things, it means that she has written her own fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u335	Yes, I propose that the issue of Kobilarna Lipica be discussed in general, and we will closely monitor you regarding the entry into Unesco's cultural heritage. But let's just because I have a few more minutes to touch the workers, because the director announced payment of the regression, he paid only 200 euros gross, he still owes travel expenses for May and June, 18. 7. Travel costs fall for July and, of course, wages. The workers are understaffed, the hours are overcrowded, the people are completely tired and disappointed, and they are asking us for help. I therefore propose that the debate be held on this, because the matter is really burning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Janja Slug will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u337	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Council of Ministers, distinguished Madam Minister! In the regional development programme of the Sava region 2007-2013, the third development axis is a structural project that enhances the competitiveness of this geographically very wide area with increased accessibility and strengthens institutions and economic links at the development axis. In the effort for the intended development of Celje, the fact is questioned that in March 2015 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision to implement the third development axis on the variant F22 by joining the A1 motorway in Šentrupert. This represents for Celje the farthest possible solution from other possible options. Such a solution for the Goals and the region cannot contribute to the intended development and appropriate placement in transport flows, so it is very important how the medium route will be placed in the space. If this one also bypasses Celje, Celje and the region will certainly go backwards in the years to come. For the middle route between A1 and A2 motorways, 36 variants and various combinations were produced during the production phase of previous analyses and variants. The most appropriate publicized variant takes place from Celje, through Laško and further south, towards the New City. On the basis of comments from reviewers, organisations and the public concerned, the latest version of the study of variants was produced in 2011, with a pre-investment design and submitted for confirmation to the Ministry of Infrastructure. According to the data of the Ministry, the documentation is thus prepared for public disclosure. An environmental report has also been made. On Monday, 6 July, a conference was held in Celje, entitled Development aspects of the central part of the third development axis, which was intended to present to me the activities of the adoption of individual mid-term routes, the presentation of variants, studies and the broader development aspect of the route, and the opening of a broader debate on the impact of the third development axis on the development of the Goals and the region. The Conference was also attended by the Minister of Infrastructure and the Secretary of State of your Ministry. There they answered a number of questions. However, since the subject is extremely important and the general public wants to hear the answers to these questions, please explain: How are the activities taking place in the middle of the route? What's the timeline for this project?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u339	Dear Member, Mrs Janja Slug, thank you for the question. The Ministry of Environment and Space is co-ordinator of the preparation of the State Spatial Road Construction Plan between the A1 Maribor–Ljubljana motorway at Celje-Lopata and the A2 Ljubljana–Brežje motorway at Novi mesto. The preparation of this State Spatial Plan was initiated at the initiative of the Ministry of Transport in January 2006. They are made, as already stated, a study of options with a pre-investment design and a proposal of the most appropriate variants and an environmental report. According to the Roadmap for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, a Regulation was adopted on this State Spatial Plan, where the closure is foreseen in 2018 – provided that the preparatory process is ongoing, without any substantive complications and with the creative participation of all participants. As you mention this meeting in Celje, at least after the information transmitted to me, this creatively good cooperation has been demonstrated at this meeting, which means that the objectives set can be achieved in accordance with this plan. The investor, i.e. the Ministry of Infrastructure or the Directorate for Roads, provides funds for the production of the TPN as a whole and a real timeline. So, after months, I could hand it over to you myself if I somehow had the assurance of this direction that the projects would be designed. However, we know that funding is needed to issue projects, but I am confident that they will make every effort in the Directorate to actually provide sufficient funding for the preparation of projects. In view of this fact, the ILO is preparing, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Directorate for Roads, a programme for further steps in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan with the aim of completing the current phase of the preparation of this spatial plan. So this fall we would organize a public presentation of the study variants by proposing the most appropriate variant and environmental report, gain an opinion of the interested public, local communities, space regulators and propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia making decisions on the most appropriate variant. Following this procedure, which could be completed late in the autumn or early winter, we should approach the preparation of further steps and, of course, the investor should provide the means to prepare the relevant documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u341	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall, distinguished minister! The Ministry of Health has already launched a regulation on the implementation of emergency medical care in last year, and the very problem of this Regulation has brought a great deal of dissatisfaction between both the profession and the general public in local communities. As a result, two public hearings were first held in the National Assembly, two extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee and then another extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the subject. At the time, however, both the ministry and the coalition did not want to listen to the comments and suggestions of the profession and also to the ground, as I have already said. However, the Ministry then decided, on the basis of the comments received, that the proposal of the Regulation would not affect the field of emergency medical care and field duty until 2019. A working group or a project group was appointed at the Ministry to prepare opinions and analyses for the reorganisation and creation of a new emergency medical service network. This working group was composed of six external members and two members of the Ministry of Health. This working group also received the payment of meetings, travel costs and some of the agreements concluded. As this is the case with public funds, I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, to answer: How much of this funding was planned for this project group in 2014 and 2015? How much was actually paid? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u342	The Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u343	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. The other Members and Members, Madam Vice President! As you have noted, on 16 June 2014, the Ministry of Health established a Working Group for the preparation of baselines and analysis for the reorganisation and creation of a new emergency medical assistance network. However, in accordance with the Rules on payments to members of the labour force and individual experts at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry has concluded five business contracts with individual members of the working group, one contract expected to be up to 200 hours or EUR 2 000 460 gross and four business contracts for an estimated 300 hours or for a total amount of EUR 3 000 690 gross. The value of the hourly item is also set out in the rules and amounts to EUR 12.30 gross. Payments of meetings and travel expenses for members of the Working Group for the preparation of baselines and analysis for the reorganisation of the new emergency medical assistance network, to which members of the working group are entitled under the previous Regulation, amounted to EUR 2 000 107.75 in 2014. Payments under business contracts amounted to EUR 371,90 in 2014 – I say everything in gross amounts. In 2015, EUR 6 000 368.73 gross was paid for meetings and travel expenses for members of the working group; in 2015, a total of EUR 10 000 833.35 was paid for the work performed under the Land Contracts. I am talking about this second brutish, it is said together with the employer's contributions, and this is the final condition on the 10th of July of this year. On 24 June 2015, the Ministry of Health issued a decision amending the decision already adopted on 16 June 2014 to continue the work of the working group on the transformation and analysis of the new network, where additional tasks to be carried out by the working group no later than the end of this year were identified, and for the meetings and reimbursement of travel expenses for members of the working group, by amending the decision, we provided for a maximum of EUR 7 000 gross by the end of 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u344	Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, will ask Iva Dimic a question. Here you go, Mrs. Iva.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! According to the Law on Local Self-Government, the municipalities are the basic self-governance local communities, which regulate and carry out their own tasks and the tasks conferred on them by law. In order to cover the costs of tasks transferred to the municipalities by law, an appropriate amount of resources from the State budget as an average shall be provided in accordance with the Law on the Financing of the Communities. The European Charter of Local Self-Government in Article 9 also provides that the financial resources of local communities must be in proportion to the tasks imposed by the Constitution and the laws. As a result of the public financial situation and austerity measures, the average level of municipalities has been steadily lower in recent years. At the same time, the number of tasks and in particular the financial obligations imposed on municipalities by the State are even increasing, even though many tasks are typical of the State. Many congregations have thus already found themselves on the brink of survival. As one of the areas of concern for the social security of the elderly and the disabled who are placed in the homes of the pensioners. Many caregivers do not have or do not have sufficient funds to pay the household allowance, thus bearing the financial burden of the congregation. When the government took office, it promised that it would thoroughly review all the tasks of the municipalities and that, or at least part of the tasks that did not fall within the original jurisdiction of the congregations, by law, it would transfer them back to the jurisdiction of the State. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Is there already a set of tasks to be delegated from local communities to the state? Are there any legal grounds available for this purpose? Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u346	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u347	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mrs Dimic, thank you for this question. Let me say that the tasks and competences of the congregations are regulated, we have checked precisely, in about 100 laws in this country, and that they are all described, I think it was said earlier that about 100 were appointed by the congregation. I can say that the folder that prescribes congregation assignments is about three inches [7 cm] in length, so this task is much more complex. In fact, at the Ministry of Public Administration, the starting points for any change in these tasks are raised as a question in the strategy for the development of local self-government, which is in the final stage of preparation, and in these days we are writing the final version of the text of the draft strategy. However, I must reiterate that we did not go through a local self-government strategy as a prepared text into a public debate, but rather as open questions where all stakeholders, particularly local communities, are also asked what their views are. The municipalities shall exercise certain powers under the law and certain tasks conferred on them by the State. However, it is very important here that we apply the principle of subsidiarity, which means that we are always asking ourselves whether we can transfer the tasks and powers of the local community to the local community in such a way that they are done as close to the citizens as possible. So if we transfer tasks back to the country and centrally regulate certain powers, then we question the principle of subsidiarity because we want the tasks to be carried out as closely as possible to the citizens. I must also point out that the analyses have been carried out on how tasks are carried out in local communities, because we often face criticism that local communities are not doing their job, are not doing their job, and we find that actual tasks in the field of local communities are doing well, in a very large majority of them very well, and that local interests often also have an impact on which tasks they give more emphasis. But this is not least the purpose of the local community. The aim of the local community is to give some local emphasis and some specific priorities, but, of course, the tasks provided for under the law are exempted from this, so that they must be carried out in this way. The means for these tasks are fixed on average, as you yourself have determined. This average, when calculated, included a set of tasks, these tasks were weighted, and on the basis of these weightings also certain funds, and at that time I think that two or three even constitutional opinions on the subject were appropriate, and all constitutional opinions found that the existing method of financing was appropriate. Of course, local communities, like the state, may still be facing financial reality to a greater extent than the state budget, which means that we need to carry out these tasks within relatively limited financial options. However, if the situation were not so black, it might still be said that even today, it seems to me that they are able to pay the dues of that legal obligation, which is strictly prescribed, because we find that, precisely when you are helping at home, because you mentioned the area of the elderly where the responsibilities of the local community of 50% co-financing are prescribed, we are achieving this co-financing somewhere over 70% at the local community level, and, say, in paying for kindergartens and similar matters, I think that at the Ministry of Finance we have found that about 21 million payments are more than that strict legal obligation. This is good because the municipalities thus relieve their population, while at the same time confirming the fact that there is no problem that municipalities will be underfunded. However, what has already been identified in the questions already being sent today is a problem, very small municipalities, which, because of some specific payments they have to make, can actually become very vulnerable because of their smallness. Because, for example, one small congregation has two elderly people, and another small congregation has, say, 15 elderly people in household care, and this poses a major problem for it. But this is a problem for which I find it difficult to see this moment a systemic solution, except in the sense that the obligations paid by the congregations are also being combined. We will also try to find solutions in this direction in the local self-government strategy, in order to integrate the municipalities – not politically, but also in terms of the performance of the tasks – more stability in meeting the obligations that come from the laws and tasks that are passed on to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u348	Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u349	Thank you very much. I thank you, Your Honor, for your answer. At this point, I would point out exactly the costs incurred by the municipalities, which the local community devotes not least to the protection and resolution of natural disasters. Our area, the area of Notranjska, has been affected by the floods, the acorns in recent years, which have further burdened our congregations and in some way extended to those costs — more than 622, as we heard yesterday, that there should be some normal average for the operation of a congregation. From this point of view, it seems to me that it is necessary to look at how the congregations are being burdened as they are increasingly being transferred, not least for the extra health insurance, but for all the unemployed or the citizens. I think that we are taking the averages to the municipalities on one side, but on the other hand we are putting an increasing burden on them, so that in fact all the services provided by a local community are in a worse position or worse for citizens. That's why I wanted you to think that a set of tasks might be slightly transferred from local communities to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u350	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u351	If I respond briefly to what you've set out to do. See, costs for natural disasters, such as floods and glands, are costs that are not included in systemic financing. As a result, mechanisms exist when funds can actually be transferred to both local communities and others suffering damage in such disasters. I must say that, especially in the event of a serious accident, a considerable amount of funds have been transferred, European funds have also been activated which, in the event of an accident exceeding a certain threshold in relation to GDP, have been released. In this way, local communities have received this support, and in these cases it has also proved important that local communities maintain the aid infrastructure that is particularly welcome in such natural disasters. As far as supplementary health insurance is concerned, this is one of the open topics. I promise myself that we will continue to deal with it. However, there is only so much I could say about the burden of the municipal budget. We're all facing, I'm not gonna say, savings, but reality: we're spending more than we're creating. However, between 2007 and 2008, the state budget decreased by 8% and the municipal budget increased by 9%. This means that in some way we must all face the fact that we simply need to frame these resources, which everyone would like to meet in a comfortable manner all the wishes and needs of the eligible citizens, into what is actually available to us. With regard to the set of tasks that may have been transferred from the municipalities back to the country, I reiterate: I can, in agreement with representatives of local communities and subject to the principle of subsidiarity. Because, on the one hand, we want a strong local government to be close to citizens, which means that this local government will have to take on such tasks, responsibilities and responsibilities. However, if we bring these tasks back by means and by decision, then we have to agree to a certain degree of centralisation, which in certain cases makes sense, but in certain cases it is more effective if the tasks are carried out closer to the citizens and municipalities; and unfortunately, at the Ministry of Public Administration, which we are responsible for, look not only at the individual general ones who have the problem – of course, we are dealing with it – but the system must work at the level of all 212 municipalities in Slovenia and it will always happen that one municipality will have a specific manca and another municipality of some specific surplus; but usually at the system level we need to achieve alignment at the level of operation of the entire system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u353	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The most recent action of the Government of Rob in 2004 was the adoption of a regulation that redefined the area of chimneys; even more so, the then Minister of Environment and Space adopted a regulation three days before the regulation was adopted, which provided for this chimney service even more precisely. Then it's been years. The concessionaires were pleased, had their contracts, and despite the fact that reports and audits of the Court of Auditors have proved over and over and over again that there are many issues in this area of chimneys that are problematic, open to infringements, the case has happened and is happening today. But in 2014, we were able to make so much effort in the National Assembly that we were united and entered into the Law on Environmental Protection in 148th Article, and with 1. 1. 2016 a new concept is introduced. Yes, Minister Židan was a minister at the time, but it is true that, among other things, he has written to my question that one of the key issues that is still missing is why we do not come to a better system, and this is the area of records. The Minister then wrote: "The changes to the system, which are also conditioned by the production of state records, are expected to be completed by autumn 2013. Ministers are changing, governments are changing, officials, apparently one more, one less connected to the chimney lobby, and they remain. The latest version is – probably more so by the coalition MPs – a draft of the new law, and I personally do not know whether it is a novel of the Environmental Protection Act or of the Smoking Service Act, which you have in the Government's normative work plan. But this marriage is supposed to be passed by 10. 5. 2016, which is very illogical, because we know what the existing law says: with 1. 1. – free market, licensing system. That is why, Madam Secretary, I am interested in: What may you have done since that public presentation of the opinions held in April of this year in the National Assembly? At least the key question is: What will you do in the area of regulating the chimney service until that cut date 31. 12. 2015, when is it supposed to bring about a new system? Will you be able to take the courage to do something new, or the strict licensing system, or the extension of the current situation, or may you return the chimneys to the congregations, or is there any other solution? So much for the introduction, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u354	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u355	Dear President, honourable Member Mr Tomaž Lisec, thank you for this question! As you said; with the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act, the current arrangements for the provision of chimney services are maintained only until 31 December of this year and will then cease to be a compulsory public service. So, our opinion, my opinion or the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Space is that, in order to ensure public interest in the provision of chimney services, it is also necessary to regulate this area in the future. In the final phase, it is ready – I think it will be published this month – a law on the implementation of chimney services that will regulate that matter. In explaining what objectives must be met for this public interest, that it is, of course, justified, given that it is the Ministry of Environment and Space, care for the environment is always mentioned in the first place. But if I speak alone as a person, I like to say that this is a Serbian for the health and life of people. In fact, it is also about the handling of these chimney cases that death is taking place, and unfortunately such a case took place a few years ago in Pohorje, which means that at least for me the first concern is the health and life of people, then the protection of the environment, it is also a matter of fire safety, that is also for people's property and we must not forget, identify or implement the energy efficiency of small combustion plants. To this end, a working group was established at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment in 2014 to examine the most appropriate solutions and to prepare proposals for legislation. The working group drew attention to a wide range of materials related to the implementation of the chimney service and, as you have already said, this proposal for solutions was presented in public debates in many places, and was also presented in some way by this licensing system or by this direction to the licensing system. Since March, these presentations have been held at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, at the expert consultation in Moravian Toplice, at the Council for Sustainable Development in Gornja Radgona, at the National Assembly and the Council of State. In the debate in the National Assembly, as well as in other public debates on the future regulation of the provision of chimney services, two concepts were most clearly presented after our borders. One concept – no more regulation of chimney services, which means that after 31. 12. 2015 was a completely free market and on the other hand the desire to maintain the existing concessional way of delivering these services. With this kind of intermediate journey, we are aware that, in fact, we will not, at least in public, achieve any support. neither one nor the other will be pleased with our salvation. But it is true that virtually all over Europe, except in England, we have not found a comparable system, otherwise this chimney service is being done in a similar way as we are now setting up. The adoption of the law itself will also be subject to appropriate regulations. In particular, one regulation will include in what periods for individual types of combustion plants this review will be necessary. The Regulation regulating the conditions for obtaining licences will, inter alia, deal with the content of the licence application, the procedure for carrying out the examination and performance of the knowledge and the examination of the skills and type of equipment required for the provision of chimney services, and the last regulation will regulate the prices of chimneys. According to time, so summer time, this law will be presented in public debate or reviewed on our websites for two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u356	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u357	Thank you, Your Honor, for your answer. I have prepared a question for you, and the deadline for the broadcast was Thursday, and on Friday I noticed in one of the Slovenian media the address of the Diminkarska Service continues to be mandatory, the time for preparing the changes is running out. Now you have said, Madam Minister, two months in a public debate, but in fact a public debate on the best model of the chimney service for Slovenia has been taking place since 2008. I have looked at past parliamentary issues since 2008, and this debate has always been: concessions, licenses, and occasionally congregations, but today we are 14. 7. Thus, 5 months until the cut-off date 1. 1. 2016, you are still saying for yourself that there are two concepts by which you believe that no one will be satisfied, the records are still in ruins, as they were in 2013, when we adopted the Environmental Protection Act, and I am interested in: What's the draft of the law? Is it a licensing system or a concession scheme? So: Will it be strictly compulsory, or will it be completely voluntary, or will it be an intermediate solution? The second question mentioned is: Are you going to be up to 1. 1. 2016 arrange the records so that users will also know what this is about and that smokers will also know what it is? Third key issue: Will those who have now done concessions in their own way, or who have been found to have been in breach of coalition contracts, be able to be excluded from any model of the operation of the chimney service? For whatever model is there, if those who do the chimney work in their image — even with the help of your officials, the distinguished minister — do not do anything, no matter what concept of law you prepare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u358	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u359	Dear Member, Mr Lisec, I feel like you haven't listened to me at all. I find it hard to agree to thesis that I speak in such a way that I cannot be understood. But you can. So, I said that this month's public debate will be prepared, drafted by law, which means that after this public debate, the procedures for the reception itself will run first to the government and then, of course, to Parliament, but in fact, it is up to you Members, whether you will accept the solution so prepared or not. I can't predict this, at least today. Another thing I've made clear. So, in this public debate in spring, or today, these two advocates of these two concepts actually advocate the same thing over and over again. Well, we went with this license solution, I'd say, somewhere between them and the public we don't expect to be commended, because for other things we don't, so I don't expect to be around chimneys either. As far as data are concerned, the concessionaire’s obligation to collect or report this information is also sought in the preparation of the law itself, so that, together with the issuance of the invoice, the number of the combustion plant might also be entered and the record would then be better. I will therefore be very pleased if you follow this public debate, if you are also helping Parliament to adopt legislation or if you are already making any concrete proposals, you will present solutions. However, I cannot answer this last question of yours at all, because I do not know exactly what these operators you are talking about. For this year we have taken the concession from the concessionaires quite a bit and granted it to the new concessionaires, so that I do not know how to answer this last question of yours hypothetically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u360	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to make a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u361	Thank you. Since the Minister has already said that a public debate will take place for two months, I think it is right that, even when the vote is held tomorrow, confirm the proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly. For this is an area where, as the Minister has already said, the health of the people is a matter of fire safety. Each one of us is somehow involved in this operation, which is carried out by chimneyists. As it is a rather complex matter, where there will be such a new law, a new regulation, a new regulation, I think it is right that not only the working group, but all the other stakeholders, who will always be against each other to hold a public debate. Dear Minister, if the concept is to be at least part of what you have predicted today, that there will be a licensing system, but the state still has to have some fingers in particular in control, I will, if not the first, at least the second, which I will commend you to. I have no problem commending the minister who does something, but I really hope you do it by 1. 1. 2016 and not that we will get some super law where the key will be in the transitional and final provisions, where we will record that the records are regulated by 2018, the Regulation shall be adopted by 2017, the Regulations shall be adopted by 2018, etc. Then we have done nothing but extend the work of the existing concessionaires a little longer. In short, I hope, Minister, that you will in particular convince your fellow Members of the coalition groups that we will hold a public debate at the next meeting. Believe me, it will also be a welcome to you, because I believe that Members, although we are likely to share in the fact that they are one for an exclusive or free liberal movement, and one for a strictly concessionary system, as is now, that we will also be counted with the help of Members, because in the end, as you yourself said, we will be the ones who will be adopted by vote or by the "yes" or "against" law, which will be at least the majority of this National Assembly at the most in a year's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u362	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 July 2015 in the framework of the votes. The question will be raised by Primož Hainz to the Minister of Defence, Andrea Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u363	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister and, of course, the distinguished Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič! As in every war, a shadow fell on the Slovenian self-sustainment war, which should not have happened. On 27 June 1991, a gazelle aircraft was shot over Ljubljana with pilot Tony Merlak under the pretext that it was a dangerous pilot of the Yugoslav Army. The truth was reversed; Tony Merlak has been working with Slovenian defence forces since August 1990 and has been preparing a flight of several gazelle-type helicopters to the Slovenian side. At the time of the shooting, he flew with an unarmed type of aircraft or a gazelle helicopter and was the first victim of the self - conquest war. The establishment of the monument to Tony Merlak in Rozna Dolina in Ljubljana in 1994 can be understood as a recognition of the country for the error made. The veterans of the deceased feel that this is not enough for the self-sustainment efforts that he made before the shooting and for the injustice that happened to him. They suggested that Tony Merlak be named helicopter squadrons, but it was not in accordance with the criteria. They also suggested that it be posthumously decorated by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, but it has not been the right response for two years. Dear Minister! In the written proposal, I asked you whether after Tony Merlak it could be called the military part of the airport Cerklje ob Krka. Later on, so yesterday, the Merlak family warned me that this airport was indivisible and is fully called the Jerne Molan Army, which is also a veteran and also a victim of war and would be an unfair name or would not be taken into account. However, I think that the Ministry of Defence could find another option in the sense of repaying conditional Tony Merlak and, according to him, call the military part of Jožet Pučnik Airport. I'm just giving it as an example. So, I'm asking you: Will the Ministry of Defence be involved in solving the injustices that took place during the war of independence and that not only affects an individual but also veterans as an organization? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u364	I give the floor to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u365	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, thank you for your question and initiative! Most of the names of military facilities were made in 1992, later, in 1996 by Vojašnica Janka Premrla Vojka in Vipava, Vojašnica Slovenian Seafarers, Ankaran and 2006 by Vojašnica Baron Andrej Čechovina in Postojna. The remaining designations were carried out in 2012, following the fall in the self-sustainment war. In 2013, a military station in Celje was named after Franz Rozman Stanet. As you yourself have already said, the military station in Cerklja ob Krka, which is also part of the military airport, was named after Jerne Molan, who fell as a member of the Territorial Defence Army in 2012. We believe that this designation is currently appropriate because it is an integral part of the barracks and that the separate designation of the military station and the airport at the same location would not be appropriate. Certainly not the naming of the current army. Your proposal will, of course, be examined as part of the renamings of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which also bear local names. However, we do not rule out the possibility that in the future, if there were a certain designation of the airport Cerklje ob Krka, the planned civilian part of the military airport would have been carried out in addition to the military work, perhaps then the designation as proposed. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u366	Mr Zvonko Lah will raise the question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u367	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Today's parliamentary question will be asked in the area of spatial regulation, spatial planning. Most experts believe that the Slovenian system for regulating space and construction is obsolete. It is based on surviving mental structures from socialist times and on private interests after profits. Slovenia's competitive position in the world has plummeted dramatically since its entry into the European Union, a global investment report prepared by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development has shown that Slovenia is lagging behind both Europe and the world after foreign investment in our country and after our investments abroad. The data for 2013 even put our country last in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. Foreign investors are dissuading themselves from Slovenia, our investors are going abroad. The European Commission is concerned about the Slovenian neglect of the business environment. In June 2014, Slovenia sent a devastating criticism in its recommendations, quote: "Slovenia has made no progress in improving the business environment." End of quote. The criticism relates in particular to the fact that no rationalisation has been carried out and that the time required to obtain permits for intervention into premises and building permits has not been reduced. This is currently one of the most important obstacles to foreign direct investment. Our country should therefore do its utmost to create a favourable business environment for businesses that drive economic development and also attract foreign investors. Companies should be allowed a safe and fast way to change land use, to build and use permits. It is interesting, for example, that a medium-sized enterprise with 300 employees is at the threshold of concluding an important long-term business that will require the company to double its capacity. It will have to quickly expand its factory to nearby lands that are not yet walled up, so a change of use will be required through the municipal spatial plan. What will such a company experience? Will it run into a friendly, predictable and stable business environment, what awaits it in providing an area for construction and other urban conditions? I'd like to know, Madam Secretary: What are you gonna do? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u368	I give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u369	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, Mr Zvonko Lah, I admit that I expect the most or I look forward to this legislation, because I knew the most about this legislation when I came here. It is true, however, that in the preparation of the amendments it has been shown that in some part such a complete overhaul is necessary that, it appears, the Construction Act will be replaced by a new law, not only will it be necessary to change that the Spatial Planning Act is also envisaged for an integrated renewal. It will also be supplemented by the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Meaning into Space, the Conduct of Activities of Architects, Engineers, after a new exemption from the Law on Construction of Buildings to date, and will be fully regulated in a separate law. All laws are currently in the process of preparation within the ILO, but they are already in such a stage as to check the elements of these laws in professional circles. This means that now, in July and August, we would be intensifying this verification within the professional circles and in autumn, as I had previously announced under the Smoke Act, we would also go through these laws into public decomposition and then into the adoption process. It is true, however, that, at least after the initial responses, some appear to be satisfied, even saying that their expectations are exceeded in terms of improvements, others have somehow estimated that these changes are too many, and Members will be the ones who will somehow find out what and to what extent these changes can be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u370	Mr. Lah, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u371	Madam Minister, I understand that this area is very complex. I ask because you have in the normative programme both changes to the PGI and the PDO plan. In the spring of the following year, or early in the autumn, these laws were to be prepared. However, I think that this legislation will have to be thoroughly revised. If we just fix it, we won't get the right results in due time. In this preparation of spatial acts, there are between 30 and 50 space regulators who do not cooperate, municipalities have to coordinate with each other, and the OPN procedures last from 4 to 8 years. Investors can't wait that long. The previous case, which I said should the company expand its production to the agricultural area before the adoption of the spatial act and the detailed spatial plan, lasts from 6 to 10 years before the building permit comes. That's unacceptable. This makes us uncompetitive with other countries. Today's report shows that we are 70th in competitiveness. From 2013 and 2014, we went back eight more cities. According to a survey on the experience in the preparation of the UNO, which was carried out in 2013 by Slovene municipalities, 83.% of municipalities reported that they lost their long-term process. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Investments. The biggest delays and costs have been experienced in coordination with ministries, sectors within them and state agencies. So, [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u372	I give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u373	In explaining in the first part, I said that yes, even when we first wanted it or at least I wanted it to be restored now, then these solutions showed that a new version of this law needed to be adopted. However, as far as this competitive ability or incompetence is concerned, I would like to say that in many environments the municipalities have invested in the construction of industrial zones and there are still a number of these areas of freedom where potential investors could turn. It is true, however, that the question of how many foreign investors can even look for this, which means that we are now restoring or preparing an e-space where the power to access this data would be on the Internet, which would be very interesting for both investors and potential sellers of these lands, are usually municipalities. This option is, of course, already given by the Spatial Plan Act, and this is a minor extension of the wall area, half a hectare, which has, unfortunately, been deleted by the Constitutional Court. I admit, at least for me this solution was good, excellent, it was quick and in such cases when an activity was involved, even though it was agricultural, already in some area, half a hectare of expansion, so the possibility of some rotation – whether it was industrial, crafts, agricultural – was expanding, seemed a good solution. We somehow still have this in processing, so that it is possible, but it is true that we are meeting in space with other users of space in one way or another, as shown by the adoption of not only municipal spatial plans, but also state spatial plans and, of course, as has been said, all of these co-operators are large. When implementing or later, when legislation is in motion, it will really be possible to see whether our decisions are acceptable or whether Members may be looking for new solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u374	Mr Zvonko Lah, you have the floor to make a procedural request to discuss your response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u375	I would take this business opportunity to vote on a thorough debate being held here in the National Assembly. I think the subject is quite broad and very important. I would also like to say that in Slovenia we have some 10,000 black buildings, 300,000 should be objects built in contrast to or in violation of regulations, so that we have to sort this out in some way, in order to adopt a law that would soon bring these legalizations under the roof. This would provide municipalities with municipal contributions, people would legalize facilities, infrastructure would be built – so we do not have any other money from an integrated budget, not a municipality from budgets. I think that a lot of work would have been done if we had succeeded in passing a law in a short time to legalise these things. Moreover, we have also heard today that we do not have the proper records to enforce the Real Estate Tax Act, as the Constitutional Court has also told us because we have anarchy on the ground. This is a very important law, important things that we can do without the extra money from the budget. Here we need willpower, knowledge and much work, but we have an example of good practices abroad. In Germany, for example, they have a special law on the basis of which they coordinate between the regulators themselves, between the ministries, between the departments, because even with us, if it goes so far that every ministry, every department of state itself, every department of state, demands its own, then we will not come anywhere. This is where you have to cross. For each municipality, I believe that spatial acts, a decree on the spatial OPN is essential for every intervention in space and for the development of the municipality, as well as the state. We do not have basic spatial acts at the level of the country, which should then also transfer this planning to regions that we do not already have, or the province, and then to municipalities. That is also the case in our legislation in the ULN plan, in the ZUreP, but we do not have that, we have a problem. Madam Minister, I am sorry, but I think that just as you are the Minister, something will have to be done in this area, it will have to be cut down and we will move gradually, as you think or as the Government has planned – I think it will be too late and the country will be rolling down.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u376	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 July 2015 in the framework of the votes. Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počivavšku a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u377	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I welcome the Minister, the humble rest of the Members and Members and part of the ministerial team! I agree with what my colleague Lah has said earlier, that it diminishes our consideration of regional development, that we almost have no more urban spatial planning, but my question first. Today we have talked a lot about so-called, some say premurski, others say the pomurski law on the uniform regional development of Slovenia. In this law we have a law on equal regional development, whereby we have 4 defined development problems; the areas near Pomurje are still Poklopje, Podravje and Zasavje, 49 municipalities, and if those 85 developmentally endangered municipalities are included, this is a beautiful part of Slovenia. But if I return to these 4 developmental problem areas; this is a marriage promise of 399 in short, almost 400 million development aid in the period 2010-2018, which is very poorly implemented in practice, with the exception of the law of purgatory. Only 8% have been realized so far. For example, from the Chamber of Commerce of Dolenjska and the White Country, where calculations were made, I was somehow informed that they were actually a net payer of development aid if I was looking for the White Country. I come from Maribor, you know, for Podravje the promised development aid of the government of Alenka Bratušek, implemented so far 2.7%. People on the ground tell me that these calls are often wrapped in unclear calls, without adequate support, with improvisation. It is all about some unacceptable practice of growing differences between us, some practice that leads to Slovenia at some three speeds: whether you will be in Ljubljana, whether you will be on the outskirts of Ljubljana, a little against the coast, or by the highway, or you will be somewhere else, I will not say what word I have at the end of the language – Serbia is defined as a place where wolves mate. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What will it be like to promote the dynamics of development aid to these 4 problem areas as well as to other regions at risk to development and to the microregions of Slovenia? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u378	I give the floor to Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u379	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, Mr Trcek, honourable Members, Members! Reply for Pomurje; we anticipate that it will pay under the Programme to Promote the Competitiveness of the Pomurje Region in 2015 an estimated 4.3m euros. We anticipate that the proposed extension of the Law on the Development Support to the Pomur region in 2016 and 2017 and the Programme for the Promotion of the Competitiveness of the Pomur Region will be proposed by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for this purpose to provide EUR 5,848,000 in 2016 and EUR 3 million 753 000 in 2017. It's a massacre. We anticipate that it will pay €3 million and €2.1 million in 2016 under the Pocolpa programme in 2015. As foreseen in the programme, the programme will expire at the end of 2016 and we will therefore propose to extend the programme until 2020 and provide additional resources totalling €10 million. This means that a total of EUR 30 million would be allocated to the Competitiveness Promotion Programme under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology instead of the currently envisaged EUR 20 million. Zasavje, Hrastnik, Radče and Trbovlje. Following the programme adopted to promote competitiveness and development support measures for the municipality of Hrastnik, Radeče and Trbovlje, EUR 1.6 million is foreseen in 2015, EUR 1.7 million in 2016 and EUR 1.5 million in 2017. Maribor with a wider environment. The planned and realised value for the implementation of the instruments, the envisaged dynamics under the Maribor Competitiveness Promotion Programme with a wider environment in the period 2013-2018, is such that it provides for EUR 6.4 million at the annual level or a total of EUR 32 million in 2013-2018. The realised value of 2014 was €1.7 million, and EUR 4.1 million was provided directly for the implementation of the contract programme. Directly for the implementation of the call for incentives for the start-up of companies in all high unemployment problem areas, funding of €1.5 million was provided in 2015, the call is completed and funds are allocated in this amount. In view of the limited integral budgetary resources we are counting on to co-finance part of the programmes with the help of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u380	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u381	Yeah, I'm gonna need a full response. Of course, if I add all this together, it's quite a haircut to the promised 400 million, and I'm not going to say now that you're personally, Mr Minister, guilty because Mrs Environment and Space Minister says she fell into the water and you fell down - I don't know what to say. Look, kind of a little bit over the top, if I say, we people who are a little bit of a busy person either in practice or in analysis of some jobs with someone, as we say, within a non-markist ideological concept, a higher value added, we know that we need at least 100,000 euros there to generate one good job. One job that will generate high added value for us. And somehow out of this – I don't want to make up for the bad things that have always been – it's some change that will generate maybe some 10 jobs with some half-life, we're not that smart, there's no one, even in more developed societies, is probably going to shut down at least a third of these jobs, that's natural logic. Somehow, however, I would like to have an answer about how in this longer-term environment we will focus a little more on generating quality jobs. I was talking this morning about some pointers that aren't exactly promising. If you could be cynical with that promised money, I could say that we are probably going to have this extension of these laws by 2030, those who will be sitting in this House if they don't carry us out. I hope not. I'd like some more clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u382	I give the floor to Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u383	Thank you. I need to comment on what you said for Pomurje and Pokulpe. In the competitiveness programme implemented by our Ministry of Pomurje, from 33 million per law, 19.1 million were committed. Now, change up or down, that's 57.8%. Of course, the total value of the package for Pomurje is EUR 264 million, which is largely realised, but here we need to take account of the development centres and all other infrastructure facilities. At the end of 2014, however, the Competitiveness Programme foreseen EUR 20 million and by the end of 2014, EUR 11.5 million, representing the same percentage, not 8 as previously mentioned, 57.5%. Of course, from the total amount of 287 million for Pocolpje, it is necessary to know here that most of this is intended for road infrastructure or third development axis, railways and electrical infrastructure. In short, in obtaining new jobs for all four problem areas have so far been earmarked after our assessment of solid resources, we can now measure the results. We think we have problems mainly in the area of Posavia – Hrastnik, Trbovlje and Radeče – bigger than the other three. We will definitely try to solve part of the problem with European funds, but of course, as has already been said for the Cowkeep, we will propose an extension of the period with an additional 10 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u384	Dr. You have the floor to make a procedural proposal to discuss your response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u385	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll take this opportunity. But since I have three minutes, I'm going to partly abuse them. Look, there are here, if I counted correctly, the eight of us, the eight of us, one of the Members, two of the experts – the officially reported fifty-seven Members and Members – two ministers, three ministers, a Vice-President and her two assistants Why am I mentioning this? [[…]] Because such a form of asking questions to ministers and ministers, to put it mildly, is almost meaningless. When Miro Cerar, or whoever the Prime Minister is, responds to those forty-five minutes – I think this is an energy waste of time, we could continue this in room 212, and I hope that we will open the debate on the Rules of Procedure in the autumn. Some slightly smarter countries have this somehow differently organised, one, two areas start thematically, the opposition and the coalition agree, the government sits here and, of course, has to respond. I very much wish we were going this way. We're not smart enough to, I'll say, buy these ministerial questions together. For example, I now feel sorry for Mrs Kolareva, because I still have to ask her, and we will sleep in half here until 10 p.m. I sincerely hope that Members and Members of Parliament will be able to make so much sense, because this is already becoming some kind of burlesque. Sometimes there is little punishment — for one who is on duty from the parliamentary group and has to stay somehow. Of course, I demand that the vote be carried out. Usually in the vote, the opposition stumbles, and this is some instrument that we have, but which is defective, which is not working and which is actually wasting our time and energy. And I sincerely hope, if not otherwise, that I will drag our Vatovac behind the ears, because the President of the Commission is to seriously sit down, let us think about this and change this matter, so that it will actually be more productive. Because if we don't know how to do this in Parliament yet, then how are we going to fuck the country? But I will, of course, formally take this opportunity to vote, because I know that I will be driven somehow. This would definitely be a topic that would then be opened at one or two times. This is how smart parliaments work, then four or five hours of debate on one or two topics, which ultimately forces the executive power to prepare itself very well, which, after all, forces the President or the Prime Minister to "brief" it well to prepare for this topic. Of course, each of us is limited, can't have knowledge of everything, but when you're in this function, somehow this way of education is also. I sincerely hope that we will go in this direction, through the Rules of Procedure, through the Commission on Mandate-Volution, to make these changes. Because, like, I mean, it's really a shame about that. And with all due respect to us, who are now sitting here in less than a few hours. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u386	Thank you. It was a little bit of a procedural abuse. Nevertheless, you said you wanted the debate to be held. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 July 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mr Ivan Prelog will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food to Mr Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u387	Thank you. Dear Mr. Secretary! The preparation of the State Spatial Plan for the Binding Road Western Railway Maribor began with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under point 1.53 at the 178th regular meeting on 17 July 2008. The aim of the planned connecting road is to ensure the spatial location of the last section of the western road to the network of fast roads and motorways. During the period from 11 June 2012 to 11 July 2012, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space publicly launched a study of variants, a summary for the public and an environmental report, both at the Ministry and in the local community. The public hearing was carried out on 19 June 2012 at the premises of the local community Razvanje. There were no significant comments during the public disclosure phase. The procedure continued with the first opinions on the proposal for the most appropriate option. At that time, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Directorate for Agriculture, delivered a negative opinion of 23 August 2014, which concludes that the impact of the implementation of the plan on agricultural land protection is unacceptable. The proposed option is the Circus 40 hectares of agricultural land, which they consider to be a significant deviation from similar projects. On the basis of the above, a coordination meeting was convened. The conclusion of the meeting, which took place on 5 February 2014, was to draw up a proposal to optimise the proposed variant 1 by reducing soil consumption — this is the conclusion of two — and to verify the feasibility of an alternative version via the business and industrial zone — conclusion three; summarised by the minutes of 5 February 2014. The most optimal was the modified variant one, which reduced the intervention to agricultural land from 42.9 hectares to 24.9 hectares of agricultural land. That's why I'm asking you: Is it not possible to replace these 24.9 hectares of agricultural land, which are already partially degraded due to the proximity of the road and other infrastructure, for the development and inhabitants of Maribor through the Agricultural Land Fund? With only a plan to abandon the idea of Luke Koper logistics centre in Prekmurje, about 100 hectares of significantly better quality agricultural land were saved, only a quarter of which would be a solution for Maribor. Can you really not ensure this and thus prevent further braking, creating the possibility of the development of Maribor and its surroundings, the whole region and ultimately all the northeastern Slovenia with Koroška worth? Let me stress that this is an extremely important road connection between Prekmurje and Koroška through Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u388	I give the floor to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to Mr Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u389	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Member from Maribor, thank you for your question. Once again a nice greeting to all Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! As far as I can tell, the logistics center in Pomura did not get the consent to change the destination of the land, so it is difficult to compare with that. Then the following question: Can we set up another place where agricultural land is lost? This was in principle true until the Members changed – otherwise in their previous constitution – the Law on Agricultural Lands, which took money away from the beautiful plans and, in good words, agricultural land cannot be obtained from less appropriate ones. That's what I'm talking about. As far as specific is concerned, allow only: there are a number of spatial plans at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food at this time. I must say that the situation changes me to 2010 and 2011 by the fact that it was the other way around. In fact, the Ministry had just received an audit report from the Court of Auditors which found out what had been done with agricultural land in Slovenia's independent period and how it had been lost and how roads, business facilities and so on had been built. Perhaps just as a suggestion, you should also read this report because it is very instructive. As for the specific issue surrounding Maribor, I must say that I have certainly looked at the archive, which is quite thick. He is also probably aware that the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is always the same as that of every six months. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Option 1 is opposed from the very beginning of the procedure, since of all three variants 1, variant 2 and variant 2, from the agricultural point of view, the worst. In particular, due to the fact that it is taking place in the middle of a complex of agricultural land, the complex is 170 hectares and actually divides it. So the complex itself makes it less useful. You asked about substitutable agricultural land. These can theoretically be established; indeed, it is also a cost of establishment; only then is it necessary to provide money to do so. As a compromise solution, the ministry has been advocating Option 3. This is a variant that runs along the existing Papal Road and continues along the existing Tržaška Road. The extension of the Tržaška road to the six-lane is foreseen. This option avoids interference with the compressed complex of agricultural land and also affects at least agricultural land. I think that many of Maribor's urbanists also liked this option, even though the company that houses it has always insisted that the best agricultural land be overrun. I have also been sent the last minutes, which say it is not a concern that the ministry will be voted on by the government in one way or another, but then it is no longer a search for compromise, but it is clear that all the interests in this country are important, but it is not an important interest in food security. This is a position, and this position is the other way around, as was adopted in 2011 in the National Assembly by a resolution providing food for tomorrow. Since I have a few more seconds, let me tell you how it is decided at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The basis for the assessment is Article 3rd of the Agricultural Lands Act and Article 30 of the transitional provisions of the Act, C variant, namely the spatial arrangements of State importance, are first placed on land of non-agricultural use. If this is not possible, the regime of national importance is planned first on the agricultural land of lower ratings. In doing so, it is necessary to avoid, to the greatest extent possible, placing on sites and agrarian operations, the proximity of water resources suitable for irrigation and the areas of permanent crops. At the same time, the existing transport and economic public infrastructure networks must be taken as fully as possible into account and planned rationally and so that agricultural land is kept as far as possible and rounded up as possible. Dear Member, allow me to tell you once again: if it were just one case in Slovenia to think that everything is important, the only agricultural land is not, then the position of the Ministry of Agriculture could be such as to seek further compromises, but it has now become a thought that is beginning to prevail in Slovenia. I am also aware that a few years from now, when food security is even more threatened, that anyone who is then an agricultural minister will get the question: Why, when possible, did you not protect agricultural land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u390	Mr Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister for Culture mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u391	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question will be for the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me introductoryly say that we are certainly all aware in this Chamber, but also more broadly that Slovenia is very richly surrounded by the cultural heritage created by our predecessors. I would like to touch your draft funding in the future of these facilities. In particular, my question would relate to the object of Želičko Cartussie. I have to be correct and also tell you, thank you for your efforts this year. Let me tell you, it's been nine years. The desire of the local community, of course of all experts, that this facility be declared a monument of state importance, of course this year you prepared this with your colleagues, put it on the government and, of course, the government accepted it on 24 June. Thank you so much from here, too. I, Madam Secretary, am interested in this facility in particular: How about funding for the future? I'm not gonna say that just for this facility. I have met several mayors in Slovenia who are concerned about the financing of their cultural facilities, especially in this new perspective 2014-2020. Thank you for your appreciated response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u392	I give the floor to the Minister of Culture, Mrs Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u393	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Minister, Members, Members of Parliament! Mr Bojan Podkorošek, I thank you for this question. It is true that as far as the general financing of this rich cultural heritage is concerned, for which I am also afraid that it will fall on us because it is falling on us after some time. So both me and us in the ministry are very concerned, and we are therefore very concerned about how, after we have found that there is no priority investment in the European Union's operational grant programme for the protection, conservation and development of cultural heritage, which is unfortunately the legacy of the previous mandate, but we will do everything in our power to make it possible. It is true that this year we have made a great effort, even because of the high anniversary of the Cartusian Wire, that everything has been prepared and that before this anniversary we have given the government a decree and that Žička Cartussy has declared herself a monument of state importance. The sources of funding themselves are, of course, more, by law, one thing that applies under the Constitution, so everyone should be obliged under the law to protect natural sights and rareness and cultural monuments, but we know how it is and that it can be a very heavy burden for the owners themselves. As a result, at least there are possibilities for free professional advice from professional services, namely the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which operates in seven exposures across Slovenian regions, but where necessary to protect and revive the monument or to implement other protection measures and where there are extraordinary costs exceeding normal costs, it is possible that the State, the province or the municipality may contribute other public funds to this purpose within the scope of the option. Now, at the Ministry we have certain invitations for monumental protection projects implemented through public tendering. Thus, since 1995, we have provided EUR 38 million 505 000 871 from the Ministry of Culture’s budget resources for state-of-the-state monuments, €27 million from European funds 883 thousand 392 and € 6 million from European projects, totaling €73 million 121 000 501. While the status of a monument of State importance may significantly facilitate applications for international projects such as the Norwegian Mechanism, and for all such calls, which are at the Ministry, the status of an individual cultural monument and the status of a monument of State importance are also taken into account in the evaluation of the priority order. At the same time, because we want all the facts that are currently for the new financial perspective and the European Union funds at the Ministry of Culture, precisely because of the fact that we do not have these priority investments, we should also have a draft law or a proposal for a law on intervention co-financing of the most endangered monuments – the so-called cultural euro; the euro, in which the monuments of national importance are also adequately represented. We are, of course, in this context due to the lack of money and also to the financial crisis [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] So we have included in this law those monuments that represent the most endangered cultural monuments. He's made this list. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u394	Mr Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u395	Thank you for your answer. I will allow you to finish. Of course, I thank you for your answer. But it is my concern, and not only mine, but also wider; but you have made it clear to me that the money for this monument is not provided for in this draft of yours. I was very pleased to see on your website of the Ministry of Culture that it says that Žica's cartussion is extremely important for Slovenia and also for the wider European space. So, Madam Minister, it is indeed my concern, the concern of the wider local community, of course also the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for this monument, and I ask that you complete the answer and you may add something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u396	I give my word to the Minister of Culture, Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Before that, I wanted to say what was the reason why this monument Žička kartuzija did not appear on the list of monuments listed in the proposal of our law. In fact, Žica Cartusia was on the list of the so-called Cultural Euro Act and those funds have already been fully used. Thus, 859 thousand 922,45 euros have been paid from the budget of the Ministry of Culture since 1995 for the upper monastery of Žička kartuzija and 378 thousand 765,11 euros have been paid for the church in the hospital. Because of the large cords of cartussion, the lower church was already being repaired in Hospitalič, Gastuž, and three quarters of the walls with towers. One of them is an open herbal pharmacy. A baroque tract was restored in which a museum presentation of the history of cartussion and the way monks lived. None of the designated objects have been statically compromised, so the facility was no longer listed as one of the most important cultural monuments under the institution's programme. However, given the importance of the Cartussium Wire in the tenders themselves, which will be held by the Ministry of Culture within the framework of an integrated budget, of course Wiečka Cartussion is classified among those monuments when the invitations are outside, so that, of course, it will be possible for it to gain a significantly greater value than some less important monuments. I therefore believe that in the future, if the budgets are to be what they should be for the cultural field, especially due to neglect in the previous mandate, and also to this insensitiveness to cultural heritage, that this will change, and that we will also be able to allocate the necessary resources to Žički karuzija. Because, in the ministry, we are working very hard to make this behaviour about cultural tourism, about the importance of cultural tourism – this behaviour is more important at the local level than it should be at the local level. So we hope that this behavior will also come to the ears of those who make many decisions about the means. Well, and finally, this is how Members are going to decide on these funds, and I'm asking you very much for these hearings all in a row. I believe that we will do something good to make the development in Slovenia truly work for everyone, i.e. the whole country, and that we will all live better. Also on this account of the restoration of cultural heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u398	Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u399	Good evening to all, especially to the ministers and both ministers! I'm going to start my seasons again: the second track. It's never ending story. I hope that in these mandates, I hope it ends or that we will get close. As far as the question is concerned, the minister – I know that these days this OECD report, or OECD analysis, should come into play, I wonder: Will we have the opportunity to see it, or will it be published somewhere, to finally know how much it will cost us: will it be 700 or 1 billion 400? But the other thing I'm interested in is: Is there a need for documentation — perhaps also necessary for the further collection of additional funds, which are always insufficient — at some stage of preparation, so that we do have all the documentation we need and all that is needed to meet all the requirements made at these calls for proposals in order to truly provide this necessary money? That's one question. Can you at least tell a timer about this? So, we were saying somewhere that in September there would be another call: How do you predict events? My second question, which binds to the second track, is this extraction track. But here I don't think there can be any more doubts, but it's only a matter of time before it's done. It says: When will the preparatory work begin and if all the necessary documentation is prepared for this? As will be said on your part and as was understood by the media, this is preparatory, although the preparatory work is modest, kilometre and 200 meters and probably this transformer station that is needed, but this is one preparatory work that is necessary for this beginning of this unfortunate second track. I hope this begins and I would ask you to answer these two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u400	I give the floor to Dr. Peter Gaspersic, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u401	Thank you, Madam President. Nice greetings to ministerial colleagues and Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you, too, Mr Ferruga, for the question raised. It's true, we've been talking a lot about the second track lately, and I think it's right that we're talking. I am pleased with every debate and I am pleased to explain and answer all the questions. Likewise today, I am pleased to explain whether anything has not yet been answered at the recent emergency meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, where we have already discussed the second track, I think we have discussed quite thoroughly here, as the debate was about 4 hours long. I would also say that I would not even use the expression that this is an unfortunate second track, but it is one of the most difficult projects in the field of infrastructure and, as such, requires certain procedures and procedures so that we can put it into the stage of construction. Around the question of how much it will actually cost, I can say that there is very much talk in the public about this, and there can also be a claim that the current estimated value is based, I will say, on an artificial assessment from past infrastructure projects in the field of especially Slovenian motorways, but here we have a very precise list of all the parts of the construction permit project. On the basis of this inventory and these artificial prices from previous infrastructure facilities, this investment value of this project is assessed. As real as this is or is not real, of course we can talk. I've also said several times that the right one, I'll say, is the market-tested price of the one you get with the binding offer on the table. In short, while we do not have these binding offers, we can never be sure what is the right price for which the project will also be realized. Even if we now give some potential contractors an estimate of how much they would build up, of course they will make this assessment with certain reserves, they will give the right price when they make a binding offer. Although we have also committed ourselves and have decided to do some audit, so to speak, of the international audit of the project itself. Not so much for the purpose of, say, checking our investment value rating, but more to see if there are other options for optimising the project. Although the project itself is already very precisely mapped out by the fact that it was placed in space, of course there are no changes in this sense of some optimizations we can no longer work, but we can make some optimisations in the construction technology itself and so on. We would like to do these tests with this review of the project and see if there can also be any optimisations to rationalise the project. As it is said, the project's own documentation for this project is actually prepared, the projects for the construction permit are acquired and what needs to be done is now in order to close the financial structure. You know that there are binding government decisions here for us that say that the project will be financed by a public-private partnership that also says how European funds will be drawn for this project. With regard to this private partnership, this study, mentioned by you, is now under way with the OECD, where analysis of possible models of public-private partnership is being carried out and this analysis will be presented by the OECD this week. We are also preparing on Friday some such presentation of these analyses, to which we have also invited Members of the Infrastructure Committee. Now I don't formally know whether you're a member or not, but of course you're all here and you've been invited. With regard to the time-table, it is said, regarding the preparation of the new invitation to tender. We will, of course, apply for the next calls with this project, and in the coming stages the project will be somewhat more mature. With regard to maturity, the current call was seen as weak because, of course, we do not yet have all the building permits. Financial consolidation is also very open in essence, so in the next calls, I count that we will improve these weaknesses, weaknesses, eliminate them, and we expect them to be able to do so. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u402	Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u403	Please answer, that is to say, as far as this drawn track and the completion of your thoughts are concerned, the answer to the previous questions I have asked is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u404	I give the floor to Dr. Peter Gaspersic, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u405	Looks like we were trying to pull this off too fast. Therefore, in this call, we expect that the project will also be better assessed in this respect and, as such, also suitable for co-financing. In other estimates, he actually received a good to very good evaluation project. I can say that the acquisition of building permits or the closure of the financial structure is by no means an exclusion criteria for the acquisition of European funds on the call, as we also have from our experience that European funds can also successfully acquire projects where we have not yet fully acquired, say, all building permits obtained. Thus, we do not see in this sense that this is, I will say, an exclusion clause so that we cannot run on the next calls and obtain these European funds. As far as the extraction track is concerned, this is actually understood as the beginning of the construction of the second track, since the extraction track represents 1.2 kilometres of the second track parallel to the existing track, and then its route turns off and breaks off into a separate track. In fact, this project has already issued a public call for the selection of the contractor, unless there are any complications, we expect that the public contractor will be selected in autumn time, we certainly expect that this year, when it can also start building this project. [[…]] It is envisaged that it will be completed by 2017, with funds provided for it, such as the European funds received at this CEF call of EUR 20 million and the rest will be budgeted. This will further increase the capacity of the existing line. Let me also say that, with the modernisation of the existing line, according to the upgrades of the Koper station, with the electrification of the track, with the renewal of the signalling devices and so on, the capacity of this line has increased from 9 million tonnes to 14 million tonnes per year, with the additional investment of the extraction track, this capacity will increase by an additional 3 million tonnes to approximately 17 million tonnes, which is already the practical capacity of the pre-shipment, which was, for example, in 2014. So, given that some of the trans-shipment is still going to be going on the highway, this way we get a couple of years of additional capacity, which, of course, we have to provide the rest of the second track itself. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u406	Mr Jan Mahnic will ask Mrs Andreja Katič the question of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u407	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My parliamentary question will address the issue of military aviation and the status of military pilots. We know that the military air force of the Slovenian Armed Forces can be heard primarily when someone complains about flights, or when we talk about finances in the Slovenian Army, that there is no fuel, or when something cancels, say, Turbolet L-410 was last landed, and Mrs. Minister, first of all I would be interested in: What's the status on military aviation? Are any future restorations and reconstructions of the rolling stock planned? I'm also interested in the status of military pilots. We know that they have repeatedly highlighted the problem of the salary system, the problem of the pension system, occupational insurance, alerting them to the unregulated and long schooling procedures, pointing out how money is disappearing in various intermediaries when the equipment is procured, and so on. In 2001, certain certifications, including military pilots, were withdrawn from the SPIZ in the previous 12 by 18, which means that for 12 months they were granted 18 months of work, then this number was reduced to 15. We know that military aviation is particularly specific, pilots perform heavy and health-related work, from noise to various vibrations, to exposure to dangerous substances, working with explosive substances, failures, failures, failures of various systems and so on. If we compare, say, with the United States, after 20 years of military service, they receive a pension worth half their last salary, after 30 years of work they receive a pension worth three-quarters of the last salary, they get a bonus from military pilots, say, 12 to 24, in France they have a pension of 12 for 27 and in some cases 12 for 32 years, not to mention Great Britain, where it takes 18 years for a professional pension in military aviation, or if we convert 12 into 27. I know that the pilots have already addressed these issues to you, but I also know that this is more of an area of the Ministry of Labour, but nevertheless military aviation is somehow within your department. I want to know: Will there be any changes in this area, and also in other matters, other anomalies that occur in military aviation, to which it has been referred for practically over a decade, and which would necessarily need to be regulated? I'd like to know, Madam Secretary: In the framework of the Law on Defence or any other measures that follow, do you already have any solutions or direction that these solutions will go? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u408	I give the floor to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u409	Dear Member, thank you for this question. Indeed, even in the field of Slovenian aviation, this reduction in resources for defence expenditure in the last five years is known in essence, and if, as you mentioned the aircraft turbot, it is professionally serviced, but it is a 1991 year, so it is 24 years old, maintenance is increasingly difficult, the resources are being used for less and it is appropriate to do so. However, apart from this minor problem, the aircraft is regularly maintained and also safe to fly. Of course, more resources will have to be allocated in the future for this area, which is what we are already planning with the medium-term defence programme. As far as everything else is concerned; indeed, we are preparing a new Law of Defence. At that time, I have already coordinated in all parliamentary groups, in principle everyone has supported the preparation of a new Law on Defence, and as far as labour law is concerned, we also have been instructed by the Constitutional Court to exempt most of the provisions from the Defence Act and to regulate it in the Service of the Slovenian Armed Forces Act. Thus these two laws will somehow be prepared simultaneously, and in the autumn we hope that we will also have the text of the articles, so that we can also give you, Members and Members, a more detailed presentation of this subject; it is called both the Defence Act and the Slovenian Army Service Act. As far as the situation of the Slovenian soldier, including the pilots, is concerned, we are aware that the situation is poor, that it is included in the system of public servants, which does not take into account this specification of the military profession, as well as the specifics, if we now look at the pilots of this particular work and this will have to be regulated, highlighted. For the time being, we do not plan to exempt members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the public servant system, because this means somehow the domino effect for all other uniformed professions, but the Slovenian Armed Forces Service Act will certainly have to regulate the specifications, taking into account the difficult complexity of the work, the specific conditions of work, the specific burdens that other professions do not have. What the Ministry of Defence has to do with the Ministry of Defence will be able to do, of course, in the dialogue with the trade unions already; certain matters that have already been highlighted by the Slovenian Ministry of Defence Pilots' Union, we will be able to arrange, as well as with the amendment of the Regulation on the classification of formational duties and titles in the Slovenian Army in payment terms, in particular, to warn that there are no wage classes and salaries in relation to the complexity of the works – this is within our competence, we can do so, in particular, by taking into account the specifics of the work in international operations and missions – everything else that is in the public service system, including in the pension legislation system, and since we will also open this area with the Defence Act and will also have to do so, some arrangements with the Minister responsible for this area, we have already done informally, and also plan to do so in the summer. Thus, all members of the Slovenian Armed Forces have my full support in exercising those rights that make sense. It is true, however, that the Slovenian Armed Forces share the fate of the whole public sector and the measures taken by the Government and the National Assembly in the past period. The anomaly must go away as we can, we will do what we cannot, and it seems reasonable to us, will have all our support, we must somehow help those who conduct these talks to join the other ministries to make the necessary changes. As far as the crisis is concerned, we hope that it will pass away as soon as possible and that in fact all the wages will also be suitable for the work done by people in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u410	Mr. Jean Mahnič, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u411	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Thank you also for this part of the answer, Madam Minister. I have to say, defense is a specific matter, including the military, and somehow I'd go this way to get the soldiers out of the civil servants' salary system. As far as military aviation is concerned, I hope that even for this industry and, of course, for the other defence capabilities of the Republic of Slovenia, lighter times are coming, as you indicated yesterday with the Prime Minister when the Secretary General of the Union was here, NATO Jens Stoltenberg. But we hope that we will finally come from words to action now, as we will soon see when we get the 2016 budget on the table. Nevertheless, Madam Minister, perhaps I am a little more directly interested in: Would you support this certification for military pilots? Let's just say the profession is really specific. The fact that some are even in the mid-term when they are fully exhausted also proves that by the age of 40 they only have to undergo a medical examination once a year, after 40 years they have to undergo a medical examination twice a year. We know that things are difficult when it takes a foot from the wall to hold the engine or the ellipse so that there is no accident. In addition, we have anomalies concerning the award. For example, not long ago, I saw that the U.S. Army, for its military pilots – those who wanted to extend for ten years, gave a $225 000 gross reward and the Slovenian Army gave a EUR 6 000 100 gross reward for an extension of ten years there. I am also interested, as I have already mentioned, in some of the requirements of military pilots. For example, they say it's unacceptable that they have the same salary on their mission as they have, say, infantry. They also gave an example, say the Falcone plane, the plane manager is in the 35th pay grade, and the deputy commander of the plane is in the 52nd pay grade. Their request was also to have a 2.5-fold average salary. Could you answer that for me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u412	I give the floor to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u413	Thank you. Actually, I may have given you a little bit of detail. Yes, of course, anything that can be regulated by amending the Regulation on the classification of formational duties and titles in the Slovenian Army into wage classes, where the difficulty of work is properly evaluated, as has been said, and also by taking into account the specific work involved in determining wages in international operations and missions – this is what we will do. We actually have this planned, and it can be arranged, so that's fair. However, as regards the amendment of pension legislation, this is, of course, part of a broader story, but it is certainly what you have warned that the burdens are great, that it is difficult, as we see members of the Slovenian Army, that certain work is done after a certain age according to the psychophysical abilities of each individual and that this should also be taken into account in some ratings. That's how the interviews are gonna go this way. How much more, how much more will we see what this brings, even if we are looking not only at Slovenian pilots, but also at other specifications in the Slovenian Army, we will have to check this out and we plan this in the second half of this year. As regards the comparison of Slovenia. We would like to have soldiers as well paid as they do in some better armies or in some countries where they are doing much better. We hope to achieve that. Now with this forecast, also made by the Prime Minister, defence spending will increase slightly, but we have prepared SOPR to 0.01 in 2016 and then 0.04 in 2017 and beyond. The agreement is likely to remain the same in 2016 as in this year's GDP, which means a minimum increase and then 0.04 in the transitional period. However, this means only one small part of all the resources that the Slovenian Armed Forces would need to modernise. It will also be necessary to change the structure of expenditure, it is said that most of the funds will not be earmarked solely for wages, in order to eliminate these anomalies in the pay system, because the soldiers of the beginners have very low wages, including incomparable to other beginners, such as the police or other informed professions, and these anomalies must be eliminated and all of them await us in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u414	Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Member of the Finance Minister Dr Dusan Maramor and the Secretary-General of the Government of Mags. Darko Krašovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u415	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I see now that Mr Financial Minister Marble is not with us in the Chamber today. Perhaps he is more interested in terrorising Greece than in the potentially illegal privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. This is what this is about. This is my question. On 18 December 2013, the European Commission issued a decision on State aid to Nova Ljubljanska Banka. This Decision also contains a list of commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia, and among them is the promise that the Republic of Slovenia will sell a 75 % share of NLB after its rehabilitation. Here I stop at my first question: On behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, which body approved this list of commitments? We know that the National Assembly has never decided on the sale of NLB's share, but in principle it should. Let me back this up with my second question: Is this decision even legally valid? If I quote the Government's explanation of the proposal for a 27-conclusion decision. 11. In 2014, relating to the Bank and the Bank of Celje, this said: "Unless the commitment would contain a confirmed commitment to sell (the following Article 84 of the USDH 1), the European Commission will not complete the procedure for issuing a decision on State aid granted, since the European Commission, as a condition for issuing such a decision, requires a formally approved catalogue of commitments. In a specific case, this is a catalogue of commitments approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and in the work on the sales undertaking as well as the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." So state aid needs a decision by the European Commission, this decision needs a catalogue of commitments, and if privatisation is included here, it must go through the National Assembly. In the case of NLB, it never went through the National Assembly. In 2013, the old SDH law, which had an identical provision in Article 34, was in force. A share in investments such as NLB may only be sold with the consent of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. For example, there are 15 companies whose agreement was given by the National Assembly in June 2013. But he never, as it were, made a decision about the NLB. And whoever made the promise to privatize the NLB has significantly exceeded their powers. And what is the final consequence of all this? If the catalogue of commitments has not been approved in accordance with the legal order, then the decision issued under this catalogue of commitments shall also be illegal. At the same time, the main argument of the coalition, which is rooting for the privatisation of NLB, is that this is what Slovenia has promised the European Commission. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u416	I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Magi. Darko Krašovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u417	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. Otherwise, as Secretary-General of the Government, I can answer Members' questions concerning the field of operation of the General Secretariat of the Government and government services, which fall within the competence of the Secretary-General of the Government. The General Secretariat of the Government shall take care of the preparation of meetings of the Government and the enforcement of its decisions and shall carry out other tasks relating to the organisation of work in the Government and government services. In this regard, in the context of its work on the organisation and implementation of meetings, the content of the materials sent to the government procedure by ministries and government services is also familiar, but I cannot explain the content of these materials, as this would interfere with the competence of the ministries and government services. In view of the above, I am also unable to respond to this question in a substantive manner, but after receiving the question, I have come to know the documentary material of the General Secretariat prior to this mandate of the Government. In this mandate, the Government did not decide on the NLB or these issues which you are asking, but decided in 2013-2014 at its 37th regular meeting on 12 July 2014. 12. 2013 where, under point 5.4, it adopted a decision in which, in the context of the implementation of the measures under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, it agreed with the catalogue of commitments for the New Ljubljana Bank and authorised the then Minister responsible for Finance to sign a catalogue of commitments on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u418	Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u419	Thank you very much, Madam President. See, Mr Secretary of State, perhaps you are not competent to judge whether a decision of the European Commission is valid or invalid, but as you have just explained, you are the first administrative officer of this government in a number of respects, so you must answer the simple question that you have now answered, namely, which body has approved a catalogue of commitments on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. What body has promised here that Slovenia will then sell out 75% of the bank after the costly rehabilitation of NLB, financed by all taxpayers, all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, I have asked my question in fact, assuming that this catalogue was confirmed by the Government, although it had no jurisdiction here, but now we run into a hacker, so we simply cannot put it under the carpet because in this government, the current government of Mira Cerar, there are at least two ministers who were also present in the government of Alenka Bratušek, so what we have today is a very important political question, which we must immediately get an answer to, and we simply cannot forget it. Finally, the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank is in the air, and for this privatisation it is shown that it is happening completely illegal, as the Secretary-General has explained now, that this is the decision of the Government and that the catalogue of the undertaking was adopted by a decision of the Government. In the meantime, we know that it is a very clear standard that if this catalogue of covenants includes privatisation, this catalogue should go through the National Assembly, it would not go. Therefore, all the flooding about the privatisation of NLB and how we have made some commitments abroad are null and void, because the decision of the European Commission, which was issued on the basis of a catalogue of commitments, I know, is not legally valid and is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u420	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Magi. Darko Krašovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u421	Thank you very much. I don't know what else to say. In principle, I think that such commitments had to be made by all the countries of the European Union that wanted to recapitalise their banks or help their banks. This is a state aid which is, in principle, inadmissible, except under certain conditions, and the European Commission, when deciding on the granting of State aid, decided on the basis of these commitments which the Republic of Slovenia has sent to the European Commission. Therefore, in relation to the European Commission, it does not matter which body has decided, but this binds the Republic of Slovenia. If the Republic of Slovenia fails to respect these commitments, of course, this means that this aid was illegal or illegal and, consequently, the European Commission could request that unlawful State aid be returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u422	Mr Miha Kordish, you have a procedural request to hold a debate on your response at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u423	Precisely this, Madam President. That's exactly what I'm going to make. Look, it's a very simple question that we got or was a simple answer. Who in Slovenia can decide to privatise such major investments as the 75% stake in the New Ljubljana Bank? The legislation is clear, and this is the Government, in another case, not least officially stated: "The catalogue of commitments must also be confirmed by the National Assembly in the work relating to the sale of investments." And the National Assembly in the case of NLB did not even decide to do so, except to confirm such a thing. This is the pure will afforded by the government of then Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. The government, in which Karel Erjavec also sat, was also the government in which Dejan Židan sat. And by doing so, this government has significantly exceeded its powers and the legal act which has been issued without authorization is, in my opinion and on my conduct, null and void. Otherwise, I could have invented to sign a gift contract on behalf of anyone, and then this contract would be valid. For example, I can sign a gift contract and give the car to our finance minister, Dusan Mumorr, to someone else. You know, it just doesn't work. On 29 June, Mr Dragonja said to questions about the validity of the decision: "As regards the NLB commitment, this is now a matter of legal assessment, whether the commitment given now has legal effect or is null and void. If nullity is to be exercised, this must also be ensured through legal means." In short, at least someone at the Ministry is aware that the decision is legally contested. And this is a very real basis for new negotiations with the European Commission and the objective of these negotiations should be for NLB to get rid of this terrible fate experienced by NKBM. There is a better alternative to privatisation, described again by Mr Dragonja, and I will quote again: "There is also an alternative, a strategic alternative for the bank to remain predominantly state-owned, in which case it should sell or withdraw from the markets of the regions, to sell its regional network, which it has in the Western Balkans.".. The investments of NLB in the region do not benefit our economy or the regional economy, so that there is no harm in selling them off. On the other hand, we have, of course, an opportunity for NLB to be held by citizens, which we must grasp with both hands, so I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this answer. At the same time, we have a case where the government and the coalition are talking about the grey economy, the introduction of tax receipts and the pursuit of chicken thieves, while at the same time the sale of the huge, huge New Ljubljana Bank is being prepared, and this is clearly in black.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u424	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 15 July 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will raise a question of the question to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u425	Thank you very much, Madam President. Now the chairman has joined us. Good evening to you all, colleagues and colleagues, Minister! In June 2013, the summit of the judiciary and the then government signed a commitment to improve the situation in the judiciary by some concrete measures to be implemented within a year. Among these measures was a reduction in the number of judges. At that time, the Ministry of Justice announced that the judiciary, by signing the undertaking, had clearly demonstrated that it understood the requirements of citizens and the economy in an effective court and that it was taking full responsibility for improving the situation. Of course, the commitment was not implemented, and the court was given about €3 million in two years in practical terms for this non-fulfilment. We all know what 3 million euro means now that we are talking about free lunches for children. So, the money was spent, there were no real effects. That this is so and that, after this commitment, they have practically not changed much, the European Commission's latest report on the review of the state of justice in the EU also speaks. Slovenia still has 45.5 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, which is the largest in the European Union. We are also on the tail of scales on independence and confidence in the judiciary, similar to the use of funds and the duration of procedures in civil and commercial matters. The duration of the proceedings has decreased slightly, but it is still 301 days. When we proposed some useful conclusions to the Committee on Justice on this subject in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the coalition rejected them if they were unnecessary because the situation was improving. It improves, it's been said. See, in 2020 we will still have 42 judges per 100,000 inhabitants in Slovenia, while some other countries have, that is about thirty-three countries, now less than 30.2 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. Minister, I ask you: Have you claimed responsibility for the measures not implemented by the Supreme Court? The fact is, they have not fulfilled their tasks and commitments. I also want to know: What concrete solutions have you already proposed or implemented to improve the state of justice? Even in this so-called [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u426	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u427	Mr President, thank you for joining us. Dear Member and those of the Members and Members who are still in the Chamber! Let's go in one order. First of all, as far as the commitment signed by the previous government is concerned. It is true that the Slovenian judiciary has not achieved 100%, nor is the Government, if we are honest, because it has demanded individual and very important financial contributions which the crisis has not earned. It is also true that the trends in the reduction of judges made by the undertaking – and I insist – are declining in Slovenia. The fact is also that Slovenia still has the highest number of judges per capita after the Justice Scoreboard you mentioned several times. The fact is also that Slovenia, which has been explicitly said by Commissioner Jourova, is one of the most relevant in reporting judges, categories of judges and so on, because we are actually reporting on the entire judicial staff, while many countries, including Austria, which, say, excludes the administrative judiciary from this reporting that I am not talking about England, which has so-called magistrates or justices of peace and does not report them at all. The fact is that it is recently, we will say, the supervisor of this report, this is what Commissioner Jourov said when she visited us, and I believe that, if not already, you trust us in the European Union, she said that the reforms of justice and the trends of justice are on the right track, but of course there is still steps to be taken. It is also true that Slovenia received several so-called country-specific recommendations from the European Commission in 2013, including in the field of justice, while we received only one this year, and this is to reduce the backlog in civil law. It is also true that in the area of execution, for example, in recent years, the average rescue time has decreased from 18 months to 8 months. You say it's a small change. I think that for every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, 10 months means a lot. Am I satisfied with this as Justice Minister? I am not satisfied, and I believe that with the measures we are preparing, some of them have already been taken, we will make even greater progress. What else would you answer your question? Some measures, unfortunately not with the participation of the party to which you belong, have been taken in March this year and already gives results in practice. This means facilitating the deployment of judges from the District Court to the District Court and a more even distribution of judges. The fact is that your client and fellow Member, Dr. Gorenak, repeatedly emphasises that in Slovenia, we have courts in particular in the northeastern region, which, according to the local word, lacks files. With the measure we have adopted in March this year, by amending the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, we have made it possible to pass the files and the judges between the district and district courts, while we think, and this has also been announced several times, with a comprehensive strategy for judicial reform, which is to be adopted by the end of the year, and in the normative programme is also the adoption of a new law on courts, the introduction of a single first-degree judge who is to make these matters possible further. Our commitment, or my commitment, is still that more can be done in the area of the quality of the efficiency and openness of the judiciary than is currently done, but I am also a firm conviction, and such a belief is also that progress is obvious, is recognised and must continue. By the way, last but not least, the European Union has provided all countries with a special tool to prepare strategic orientations for the drawing-up of European funds and within are measures taken by Slovenia [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u428	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u429	Thank you very much. Thanks for the answer. The Minister, who is my beloved organ, is probably going to decide me, not you, as will I, which party is in your will and which one is not in your hands. Look, you mentioned Commissioner Jourovo, and I'm going to stop here as well. The fact is that you are probably also aware of the fact that such visits are also often a diplomatic language, but let me remind you of what the Commissioner said on the occasion of that visit. It warned you about the urgent reduction in procedures, mainly in civil and commercial matters at the first stage. It also refocused you on the implementation of the recommendations you have received from the European Union. She also felt that it seemed very important to me that a lot could be solved by better court management and setting deadlines. However, it is very interesting that in your reply you first spoke about the adoption of reforms, and indeed the lady also mentioned that our reforms are in the right direction, and I am interested in the Minister of Respect, whose reforms she spoke about. In this National Assembly, we have not yet adopted reforms in justice, so I do not know whether the European Commissioner knows more than the Members of this National Assembly or whether you have spoken something that is not yet, but should be, as you said, the end of the year. I'm asking you to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u430	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u431	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. Since your fellow Member said that he did not hear the last part of the reply, I would just like to repeat or say that the European Union has sent a special so-called toolbox to all Member States in the preparation of the new financial perspective, in which Slovenia is exposed as a good practice in the area of so-called presidential panels in the field of justice, monitoring outstanding cases and so on. Just like the supervisor that KPK prepared. But I apologize for that note about you loving institutes. As far as the recommendations are concerned, hold on to what Mrs Jourova said and what you quoted, and I am signing at any time, and this is followed by a new strategy in the field of justice. However, what I said earlier is also very important because Jourova also stressed that in the past we had, say, seven recommendations in the field of justice, today we have only one, which means that reforms are going in the right direction. And, honourable Member, reforms are not only adopted in the National Assembly, they are also subject to the functioning of the judicial system. Most of the last governments – no matter what government has accepted them – are not yours, but they are, for example, formerly, and what we are in the field of justice – have led to this, and it is very important that today the Presidents have a responsibility and also the right to manage the judicial district. Regardless of how Mr Gorenak waved with his hands, the fact is that your government did not accept these reforms. However, they were accepted by the previous government, which is not my government, but by chance was the same minister, my predecessor, Mr Plicanic, who gave the presidents more powers and more responsibilities, and we intend to continue this. By continuing with more demands and competences towards the Council of Justice. In one thing, I agree that the situation in Slovenian justice, both you and I, is not satisfied today. But the difference is to what extent and why we are not satisfied and what is the way to salvation, but democracy is that we can talk about it. Don't you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u432	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u433	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, it's true. As the Minister concluded, because we are living, I hope that, indeed, in a democratic country, I hope he will also support that the National Assembly will speak a little more about these reforms, which the justice system has obviously adopted, and we have not been aware of them in the National Assembly, because of the various measures taken. And I would really like to know because we're still on the charts in the last places, all at the bottom or two, three places higher – you're nodding, but the data is known. Statistical. We all know the confidence of citizens and citizens in this system. And I think you'll be the first to support these reforms that you've adopted and that we haven't talked about in the National Assembly, because they don't concern the National Assembly, we can talk about in this National Assembly. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u434	Your proposal for a debate will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 15 July 2015 in the framework of the votes. Ms Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, will now raise the question of Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u435	Thank you very much. Obviously, ministers can mention me more than once, according to the latest practice, than they are responding to. And, President, of course you allow it. My nodding, Minister, was not meant for your content, but for the President of the National Assembly, who allows it as if he were not the President of all Members. But let's just leave it at that. I have already written one question to the Minister of Defence and I have received a rather unusual answer. However, it refers to the work of an independent body, because everything is independent in our country, and the defence must have something independent, so, of course, it has the Defense Inspectorate, who sees well on the right and a little worse on the left, if I say so in a parable. Of course, I was thinking about what you said to me in the question of parliament, which is about Mr Dežman's fines and, of course, about all the symbols and all the things they wear in Dražgoša, and the inspectorate sees nothing there. So this time I ask you the following questions: How many employees does this inspectorate have? How many infringements have he dealt with over the years between 2010 and 2014? How many inspectors were there? For they go before a court, I ask you, how long have they been going to Dražgoša for the last five years, and how many have they detected violations there? How many violations of the law have inspectors dealt with after years? And the last question: How much they have detected violations in Dražgoša, given that they are successful in court in Ljubljana. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u436	Ms Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u437	Dear Member, thank you for asking. On the question of how many employees are employed in the Republic of Slovenia Defence Inspectorate, I answer that the RS Defence Inspectorate currently employs 16, of which 12 are defence inspectors. How many violations has the Defence Inspectorate dealt with after years between 2010 and 2014? We have information on inspections carried out and specific inspection measures relating to infringements. In 2010, the number of inspections carried out was 75, the number of specific measures 315, the number of infringement decisions 3, the number of alerts under the Offences Act 7. In 2011, the number of inspections conducted was 70, specific measures 317, no decision on the offence, number of warnings under the Offences Act 9. In 2012, 53 inspections were carried out, 366 specific measures, 1 infringement decision and 7 alerts under the Offences Act. In 2013, 55 inspections were carried out, 259 specific measures, one offence decision, one warning under the Offences Act. In 2014, 56 inspections, 140 specific measures, three infringement decisions and oral warnings were issued under the Offences Act. Thus, from 2010 to the end of 2014, the Defence Inspectorate jointly carried out 308 inspections or an average of 61 years and issued 1397 inspections, issued 8 decisions and 24 oral warnings, which is not kept as a crime statistics. How many inspectors were present at events in Dražgoša after years between 2010 and 2015? The inspectors are not and do not participate in events, not in Dražgoša or other public events, meetings in the function of the Inspectorate of Defence, because the Inspectorate does not have the authority to carry out inspections in the field of organising the content of public events or public meetings. How many violations of the law have the inspectors dealt with over the years between 2000 and 2014 in connection with the central celebration of the battle in Dražgoš? In connection with this event, the inspectors addressed one application in January 2015, as they explained in detail in their written reply 17. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In a specific case, the inspectors did not find any violation of Article 106 of the Defence Act and did not continue the procedure. How many violations of the law have they dealt with after years between 2000 and 2014 related to other events? During the period 2000-2014, one violation of the Defence Act was dealt with in relation to the events and a payment order was also issued to the violator at the beginning of this year. And as for this particular case, when you mentioned Mr Dežman's historian, the press issue was essentially abandoned by the inspector, and the inspector considered it an application and also carried out the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u438	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor. Are you asking me to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u439	Thank you very much. Let me put it this way. See, Minister, if I compare these numbers, given the amount of work and the twelve inspectors, to, say, internal affairs – a little old data, eight or nine years – one criminalist in Ljubljana solves 108 crimes. He writes 108 criminal charges, but that means he solves the crime from filing a report for a month to writing an act, whether he found the perpetrator or didn't find him. Then I'd tell you, I'm going to tell you this gravely, think about it, and from twelve to nine jobs, you're going to give them to the Home Secretary, because I think the amount of work you've said is extremely small. At least in my opinion. I didn't understand you. Maybe you can explain that to me when you say they don't have the authority to go to the field. That's hard to understand. Then how do the offenses determine if they're not going to the field? At least I don't think that goes together. Look, it's in the sky, screaming, really in the sky, that crime you mentioned that you were dealing with in January. I believe that the offence that I here reported to the minister, your predecessor, was through the question of the mission. By the way, in Dražgoša you see what you want. From the old armory to the uniforms of the present, the former, I don't know what you see. Some historian, Dežman, says one sentence, two or five minutes of speech, because it has some military symbols on it, and it gets 250 euros in fines. So, anyway, you're judging the left-hand political option, I don't know what to say. In the name of independence, it would seem little to see what these inspectors are doing, whether they really see everything or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u440	Ms Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u441	Thank you for that additional question. I didn't say they didn't have the authority to go out on the field. All I have said is that the inspectorate does not have the authority to carry out inspections on the organisation and content of public events or public meetings. He has jurisdiction under the Defence Act, art. 86. I probably do not need to read it, but, nevertheless, it is about overseeing the enforcement of the defence rules; verifying the state of preparation of civil defence; verifying the state and competence to implement preparedness and mobilisation measures; verifying the implementation of military education and training; verifying and assessing the readiness and work of military commanders; and carrying out administrative and professional defence matters. In accordance with Article 42a of the Secret Data Act, it also has powers in the field of the handling of classified data in the defence system, and has been carrying out criminal offences under the Offences Act since 2005. Inspectors are allowed within the framework of their tasks, as you yourself have said, to be independent, against the decision of the inspectors, a complaint decided by the Minister. And when is a violation of the rules on this particular case considered? The opinion was taken into account that infringements of the rules would occur where a person could be replaced or mistakenly identified by a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces or a military person by using or bearing the prescribed markings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u442	Now he'll be a magician to the Minister of Justice. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek questioned Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u443	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! As you have heard, the question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. We have already found that the situation in the judiciary is not satisfactory, and I think that judges must do the first thing for the reputation of the judiciary, as we have seen on many committees and commissions. One of the areas that is burning, at least from my point of view, is the employment of judges with gainful activities. This then creates conflicts of interest and creates a kind of bias that is still important in judges. In essence, judges themselves receive an allowance for having their function incompatible with a gainful activity, which should mean that they are not engaged in an activity that brings them some gain. Of course, the Law on Judicial Service knows the exceptions, these exceptions are for teaching, scientific, publicist, and other research work. The very interpretation of the law was initially meant very narrowly, linked to those judges who were involved in teaching and research activities mainly within the framework of the university and it was indeed an extraordinary work. Such activity shall be authorised at the request of a judge on the part of the President of the Court, if he does not agree, then the Council of Justice shall decide. In recent times, we have seen that these gainful activities are increasing and are being carried out through private companies, saying that this is a purely profitable activity, which was certainly not the purpose of the law. So I want to ask you a few questions: What is the minister's position on such activities? How to regulate such activity? How to obtain data, how many of these activities exist, and what are the profits? What role does the chairman play if we have heard earlier that greater powers and responsibilities are given to the chairman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u444	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u445	Thank you very much, President. Comrade Dr. Dobovšek, you have just said in your question, section 42 of the Law on Courts represents one of the rules that most strictly determines the incompatibilities of the function and the limitation of additional activities from all the officials we know. The exception is, in fact, the Law on Members, which also provides in some way for this arrangement. When I was still President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, we have put forward several initiatives that, if the Commission is already in charge of preventing corruption for the whole executive authority, for the whole authority in the local self-government, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption governs this in one place and also sets out the procedure for how such additional activities are decided to make sense of doing so for Members and Judges as well. Of course, we have failed to do so for Members, but as far as the judges are concerned, I think we are part of it. I agree with your point of view that this area is somewhat or not slightly, but in certain cases, too widespread. To this end, we have also adopted or adopted, on a proposal from the Government or the Ministry of Justice, amendments to the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Courts, which imposed the adoption of the Code of Judicial Ethics on the Council of Justice and also imposed upon it the obligation to make binding recommendations in this regard, while also imposing the adoption of an act to remedy corruption risks on the Supreme Court. And since we are both in the same line of work in this area, you will agree that conflict of interest is an important part of corruption or corruption risks. According to my information, even on the basis of your question, the Council of Justice has already drawn up a draft in this area and will shortly consider it and, I hope, accept it. The Ethics and Integrity Commission, which will be established in the Council of Justice, will be the body that will have to identify itself on these issues. As you may be aware, so far, the Council for Judicial Ethics of the Slovenian Judicial Society has been defined. It has also adopted some good decisions or opinions on this subject, also available on the website, both in terms of complementary work and in relation to participation in various mediations and so on. However, these were simply not binding, as also GRECO – Group of Anti-Corruption Countries in the Council of Europe observed, and we have therefore transposed this into legislation, with the opposition's work being, of course, vocally opposed. However, it is possible to answer your question by believing that this area will be settled through this newly created Commission on Ethics and Integrity, which is the right address for addressing such issues. I do not think that the Ministry of Justice is justified in this case, absolutely not under the current legislation, but the Ministry of Justice in this area is not entitled to systematically intervene. Nor can we obtain data on how much this is, but at any time can we obtain data on how much this is, from the Commission to prevent corruption, every judge and state prosecutor, if you want, is obliged to report on the property situation because he is an official. And also on the basis of the verification of these data, the Commission has, years ago, sent the Council of Justice a proposal to adopt a single policy in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u446	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u447	Thank you. I haven't got an answer for that yet: How do you see the role of the presiding officers in this and, on the other hand, the role of the Council of Justice? We have seen that the current system of judicial society has not been respected. What if the Codex and this new commission were to be created, then these solutions would not be respected? Then how do you see the next step? Is there then a need to amend the legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u448	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u449	Thank you very much. As far as the leaders are concerned, they are often in, according to the household, a distasteful situation, and practice is very different. I will tell you this from my own experience when the leaders sometimes referred to the KPK as a question of how to act in such a case. We tried to give them some guidance, but at the same time we also had to say that it is not competent for both judges and Members of the KPC in this area. The practice, as it is said, is very different and it is expected that the Council of Justice will adopt clear guidelines through the new commission in this area, which will have to be followed by all. How's it going if they don't stick to them? Look, you stress this more than once, and I think you're a good person, because you're an expert in this area. Then we'll prescribe punishment? They said it was a crime? I don't know. The problem is political and legal culture in this society. However, I believe that when certain judges or judges who have used such gainful activities have in the past said that they are not members of a judicial society or that they are not binding, I highly doubt that they will do the same if the Council of Justice so decides. It is in the final stage that the world of justice decides on progress and so on. I therefore place a certain measure of faith in the fact that the new regime, which was enacted in March this year, will come to life. But it won't happen overnight. I'd like to add something else. Not only in the case of judges, including public servants, but also in the case of officials, this authorisation has been extremely produced in the field of teaching activities. In fact, it is often just a matter of earning, which has nothing to do with true pedagogical activity. And this is significantly more widespread, as we have also pointed out in the past, even in other enforcement segments, perhaps even the legislative branches of power than in the judiciary. But it is also, I agree, present in court. And the responsibility of the Council of Justice, which was given to him by the last amendment of the law, is to put an end to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u450	Ms Janja Slug will now raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u451	Thank you, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers and ministers, distinguished Dr. Peter Gasperšič! The spatial development strategy of Slovenia defines Celje as a priority developing as an important regional transport hub and a centre of national importance with other development potentials. The development supports the design of transport links, which foresees the placement of a third transport axis. The latter connects regional centres in Austria, Slovenia and Croatia and is essentially divided into three routes. The first is between the border between the Republic of Austria and the A1 Šentilj–Koper motorway, the second between the A1 motorway and the A2 Ljubljana–New Town and the third between the A2 motorway and the border with the Republic of Croatia. The problem is the longevity of the adoption of State spatial acts for the placement of the third development axis from 2006 onwards, the timing of the implementation of the investment project and the uncoordinated progress of the activities of individual routes. As you know, because you attended the conference last week, we hosted a conference in Celje on the development aspects of the third development axis, where we focused mainly on the middle route. With regard to the medium route, I have already asked the Minister of Environment and Space a similar question today, but I think it is very important to ask you how the construction of the southern work is progressing between Novi mesto and Vinica. So please answer the following questions: How are the procedures for the southern part of the third development axis progressing, where the route, as we know, has already been placed in space? What is the estimated investment value of individual sections of the southern part of the third development axis? Are these funds secured? Here I am thinking mainly of the financial construction of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u452	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u453	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, Mrs Janja Slug, thank you for the question raised. This south section of the high road of the third development axis from the motorway to the New Town to the Croatian border, i.e. at Črnomlje, at Vinica and at Metlika, is also divided into several stages or sections, the first section runs from the New City to the Malina connection including the tunnel under Gorjanci, the second section runs from this connection to Malina to Metlika or Montenegro, and the third section runs from Montenegro to the border crossing of Vinica. These sections, of course, have been treated differently, it is known that this first section, which is said to have passed the New City to the tunnel under Gorjanci or to the Malina connection itself, has already been placed in the space, this section was placed in 2012 and is, in fact, already in the implementation phase, while the other two sections are still in place. This first section has thus made a significant move this year. The investment of this section has moved from the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia to Dars, because at the Ministry we have estimated that there are actually some other possibilities for carrying out this investment or for the realisation of this section, as if Dars, who is responsible for the construction of toll sections in the Republic of Slovenia, does not. So in May, Dars took over, and there was a handover between the Directorate and Dars. Thus, Dars is now taking over the tasks and is already in the process of preparing project documentation and further acquiring land on this first part of this section to Malin, which is passing the New City to Revoz, which is about five kilometres long, which is also co-financed by European funds. This section is estimated to be worth just over €80 million, about €89 million, of which about 40 million are European funds. So I estimate that, for this part alone, the financial capacity should not be problematic, but in the rest of the work, which then includes the construction of the tunnel itself under Gorjanci until the accession of Malina, of course, is already dependent on the financial decency of Dars, which will also be conditioned by the restructuring of the already leased loans that have been hired to build the previous sections. The investment value of this first section, including the western bypass of the New City, is estimated at a good EUR 700 million, while the total investment in the southern part of the third development axis is estimated at a good EUR 300, according to all three sections. In short, we are talking about difficult infrastructure projects whose investment capacity will be conditioned by the ability to finance or borrow Dars. In short, we can say that, theoretically speaking, the financial structure is somehow closed or defined, but it depends, of course, on how Dars will actually be able to borrow new loans and, therefore, to return them with the inflows that will arise from the collected tolls on these sections. Now I can also mention that it is envisaged that placement in this area, from Malina to Montenegro or Metlika, will end this year, while for that section from Montenegro to Vinica, it is still premature to predict when this could be completed, because the continuation of the proceedings will take place when this second part is posted. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u454	Now he'll be a magician to the Minister of Justice. Dr. Vinko Gorenak questioned Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u455	Thank you very much. Maybe just one more sentence on what used to be Dr. Dobovsk's speech. Minister, in 2010, I gave Google just a few key words, and you can see that for 2 000 500 to 5,000 people are preparing for judicial examinations at a private school in Kranj. And there's a lot going on there. Investigate. However, as far as my question is concerned, of course, it refers to a specific case, although the question is general. Main hearings in the courts during the period of judicial leave. I don't know the rule that they could be. During judicial holidays, the judges are on leave and carry out so-called compulsory cases involving foreigners involved in detention cases and so on. Something unusual happened in Maribor. Someone who was a member of this National Assembly is invited to the Court every 5 days, from 15 July to 15 August, when there are judicial holidays. Although this case was cancelled, it was cancelled only after there was a lot of talk in public about how this could be done. Actually, I'm asking you: How is this possible, and what regulation is it that allows judges to do so? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u456	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u457	Thank you very much, President. Dr. Gorenak, I didn't quite understand your first accent in 2010. I don't use Google myself, but DuckDuckGo, which is a much better thing, I assure you, but at the same time, it doesn't follow every search you've made, so I'll be grateful if you'll give me what you had in mind. Court holidays are something that is quite a Slovenian specialty to some extent, but this is another story. But it is also a question of whether we should ever, and here we may give ourselves a hand on the effectiveness of justice, and we may change that. I assume your question concerns Kangler, for example. There is no need to overestimate where the judge has actually called for several main hearings. There are also 5 main hearings during court holidays. If I understand correctly, these orders were later cancelled. I admit that this made me think when I got your question, but also that there is actually a need to change the law, because it is in order to welcome the conduct of any judge who is willing to work during court holidays to be as effective as possible. I don't think the court is here to accommodate lawyers or defendants. You're charged on or off trial. There is no reason, since the orders have been revoked, for them to now go into whether they will be legally or illegally introduced. The fact is that Article 83 of the Law on Courts determines which cases can be dealt with even during judicial holidays, and given that the clock is already known and that you have been quite joking the last time, you may also allow me to tell you – because I read that you are the new President of the SDS Justice Council – that it is not only in detention cases and foreigners, but also in criminal matters relating to the investigation and in cases in which a claim for the confiscation of property has been proposed or already determined. I don't know if this is the case with Kangler, because we didn't control it because the orders were cancelled. However, I think and I believe that in connection with the question raised earlier by your fellow Member, Bah Žibert, we will also agree that it is appropriate to consider extending the Law on Courts in such a way as to actually allow judges greater discretion in the tendering of orders, because, as it is said, this is an anachronism that we have such judicial holidays as are, especially in criminal matters, where I believe that it is also in the interest of the accused, that the proceedings are taking place as quickly as possible, so much more so as in the case of accused persons who are raising judicial writings and taking part in hearings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u458	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u459	Thank you very much. We can agree that it is nice for judges to work during court vacations and that they have other vacations, which is not at all controversial. You know, I sent this question to you and signed it at a time when these hearings were still open and were later cancelled. But, see if paragraph 83 clearly mentions, or what can be done during judicial holidays, or what is not, or what is to be, or what is not — the Kangler case, of course, does not fall within any of these points of Article 83 — and then you will have to agree with me to raise the question why. And the answer, which is itself offered, is a politically motivated judge. There can't be anything else. There can be no other way. If Kangler's the only one since World War II, I'm cariculating, who gets a subpoena every five days on trial, there's something really wrong here. In principle, I can agree that if the law has been amended and this applies to all citizens, not only to Kangler, then of course the matter is not problematic. Because I have 39 seconds left, let me tell you what I meant with what I told you before. In Google, give the words: we prepare you effectively for the legal exam, and you will drop out one school from Kranj, and you will see which top judges and judges of the higher courts offer you as effective and wonderful lecturers for 2 to 5 thousand euros! Additional information to be verified – I can't because I don't have these powers – is that they also write down a written part of the legal exam, which is then replaced on the right exam. Mr. Zalar never wanted to clear this up, and you have that opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u460	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u461	Thank you, President. And we agree again. Not often, but sometimes they do. I think that judges — supreme, higher, district or district — should not deal with these things. There's a dot. But I absolutely don't agree that they just switch exams there. This is nonsense — you do not know how the judicial exams are going on — so that you can claim such things. As for Mr. Kangler, look, I don't know if there were any reasons. You may know. I know that he is a suspect in a serious crime involving corruption. I can also say this because it was in public that the KPK also checked his assets and that, in my humble opinion, with hay bales, piglets and so on cannot earn as much as he claimed could be earned, and perhaps there is an order concerning him regarding the insurance of the claim for the confiscation of property benefits. I don't know. You're nodding. I don't know. He may have told you because you're obviously in contact with him that it's not. But I don't know. And as long as I don't know, I can't agree to your platform that the claim has been filed illegally, but even less politically, because I told you before, and I think that as the Minister of Justice in the shadows, you should know that this is not just about treating detention cases and foreigners, but also about cases involving the seizure of illegal property benefits. That's it. And I'll put that in Google, and I promise you that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u462	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a procedural discussion on the response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u463	Thank you very much. Well, only the Kangler case is likely to be at an extraordinary meeting or a meeting of the National Assembly, and we will not discuss the work of the judiciary more broadly, where, of course, this question is, therefore, I am asking for it. None of the cases you listed, but on the day of Mr. Kangler's case, of course, does. The fact that it is not political, but it is a completely different question, you know, because if the judge in the judgment writes that there is a potential danger of Kangler going back to politics and that he must therefore go to prison, something such as that would not be written on the Moon if he could write there. But this is, of course, possible in Slovenian justice and, therefore, it seems to me that any debate on justice has been voted on the question of the Member of Parliament or in any other way necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u464	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 15 July 2015 in the framework of the votes. Now the Minister of the Interior will be a magician. Ms Anja Bah Žibert raised a question in the spring of Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u465	Good evening again, everyone! But there are some of us left, and Mr Trček has returned, so there are even more of us. The distinguished minister, the so-called Roma problem in New Town and the wider part in Dolenjska, is large and certainly difficult. Some of the solutions from the past are known, but it all looks more like a fire extinguisher, which you never know where he'll show his teeth again. I believe that a more comprehensive solution requires more efficient inter-sectoral work and, above all, a more innovative approach. Although we have several areas in Slovenia where the situation is satisfactory, we can say good, but unfortunately these areas are more exceptions than the rule. The greatest burden of this irregular situation is on the shoulders of the population on the one hand and on the other. The fact is, they're both at risk. Their stories are worrisome, and many are already desperate. In order to help the local community and the country, however, there are no movements in the final stage. Police, too, are often powerless to deal with this problem, but sometimes its top simply hears this problem or does not want to see the reality that the problem is also in capacities and adequate equipment for more efficient police work. The local population warns that there are serious violations of legislation and also of the Constitution, fear prevails, living conditions become unsustainable, both for adults and children. Minister, I am addressing you with the question: What will you do or what else you can do to keep people and property safe in the New Town and in the surrounding area? At the same time, allow me to invite you, on this occasion, that your ministry, which you run, may take an interdepartmental initiative to take a more comprehensive approach to the issue of the Roma issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u466	The Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u467	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor, I thank you for your question. I agree that addressing the Roma issue is a horizontal issue, that is, a problem that certainly requires a horizontal approach and where all the resources must also contribute to their optimism. This means that it is within the competence of both different state authorities and governmental and non-governmental organisations. Here I point out, as far as a particular part of the police is concerned, that it is a key challenge for the police, especially in prevention, irrespective of the repressive nature of the police, because the mere implementation of repressive measures in the long term cannot help to ensure long-term effective public order. I can also tell you from my own experience, i.e. from my direct findings in the field when I visited Novo Mesto Police Administration, that police officers are consciously and planning to ensure a comprehensive treatment of security events and phenomena. They are also innovative at times, as you yourself have somehow pointed out in your question. Mediators are also often at odds, as well as proposers, to improve the situation both in the area of security of residence and Roma education and also to advise citizens on the implementation of measures for greater security. In any event, the functioning of the police is transparent and also legal and proportionate. It would also highlight some of the progress that has been made so far in the area of Roma governance, as regards reducing the disruption of the majority population by burning hazardous substances and causing noise and intensifying action in the area of road safety. Police activities are also aimed at integrating Roma people into various projects. This is where I point out the Project Together-j, in which the police are very active. The aim of these projects is certainly to strengthen the integration of the Roma community, because we believe that the successful and peaceful stay of various ethnic and national groups is certainly a condition for a stable society based on progress, and also here the police are committed to building up as a modern organisation that is somehow striving to respect and realize human rights for all, i.e. for all inhabitants. It is true that this is a difficult issue in these areas, where members of the Roma ethnic community also live. At times, it is more pronounced, occasionally less, which also requires the police to continuously adapt to the principle of proportionality, which is also a major challenge for the police, especially given the fact that the police are constantly faced with different opinions on how these security events need to be addressed. Police also estimate that the assessment of the security situation at this time in Roma settlements and near Roma settlements is good. Even so, the state of public order and peace in Slovenia is favourable, as shown by the data on the alleged violations of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which have been falling in recent years. However, the police have also carried out some concrete preventive activities, which I believe are also the basis for its behaviour in the future. Therefore, the police are proposing the establishment of security councils in areas where Roma also live, taking care of regular contacts with Roma councilors, attending working meetings with the mayors, attending the international conference of Roma in the European Union, attending international Roma sports games in Croatia, participating in the Day of Association and Movement of All Generations, attending the round table of the Roma Media and Roma Media in Slovenia, working with the Human University of Murska Sobota, working to improve the living environment in Roma settlements, seeking to establish the best possible conditions for Roma co-existence with the majority population, the Roma are also aware of the importance of implementing measures to raise the quality of living standards in Roma settlements, and carrying out preventive activities for Roma youth, which have already been dealt with as a result of criminal acts. It also cooperates with school inspection and also actively cooperates with informal leaders in Roma settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u468	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u469	Thank you very much, Minister, for your comprehensive response. It is true that much has been done in Slovenia in this area, but I have recently met with the local community or one of the local communities or fourths, whatever we call them, and the actual situation may not be what the police always say. Then, on the last committee, where we also discussed the Police Labour Report 2014 I also warned the Director-General of the Police that the fact that so-called calls to the police are being reduced does not mean that the situation is improving. People are afraid. People live together and, look if someone comes to your house and takes you literally half a garden, then they know exactly who intervened, and people are just desperate and they don't call these numbers anymore. The fact is, the police actually did everything they could to make less noise over the weekend - sometimes this happened over the weekend - now it's turned around and it's happening in a week when people have to get up and go to work in the morning. In a Roma settlement, it's a little different, but I also wonder what happens to their children who also have to go to school. I think it's a really tougher problem than you might have seen at first glance, and maybe the equipment isn't exactly what it would fit the cops, but maybe it's harder to say because then something might be considered ineffective. That's why I'm really calling on you, Minister, if you can look at things in this area and see what can be done to avoid any worse accidents that would cause everyone to suffer together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u470	The Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u471	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, for this addition to the question. I agree. This is a very difficult issue, which requires in-depth police work in the future, and I will take my own stand in this direction. It is necessary to continue with the implementation of established forms of work and also to improve the quality of all procedures, which ultimately depends also on the proper integration between competent authorities and organisations, as you have found at the outset, because we know that security in a particular community depends also on economic, social, health, education, employment, living and other aspects. Maybe just a few words about the operation of the Novo Mesto Police Department. In these areas with Roma settlements, this police administration carries out repressive and preventive activities daily. In the first place, they provide permanent and immediate police intervention on all security events and also on events that they have been informed of, of course, against the offender also act, but what you have said is also important, because in fact people are probably not so willing to contact the police because of this whole problem to a certain extent. The factors most disturbing to the surrounding population have been identified, and they also adequately adapt various forms of work as well as activities to sanction perpetrators against legal practices. However, because, as has already been said at the outset, the repressive approach itself does not always achieve the desired goal, i.e. a good state of security in these areas, the police have also strengthened preventive action and have also focused on finding the causes that cause disturbing factors in this direction, which I have also detected in the field after discussions with the police. They also carry out various preventive talks and workshops in Roma settlements, paying great attention to the visibility and transparency of police work, thus undoubtedly contributing to a greater sense of security for people living in the immediate vicinity of Roma settlements. The case of good practice in the Police Administration of the New Town is also the return of police officers, that is, the conscious return of police officers to injured persons who are also informed of all police activities and actions in relation to their applications. And the police also note that these feedbacks show that they are satisfied with this approach, that they also feel that their call and desire for police intervention has reached their goal. I also believe that this sense of security in people will undoubtedly contribute to better interaction with the Roma community and also to greater people's willingness to call the police when they actually feel threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u472	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u473	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will not ask for a debate because the Minister has really explained in detail, but in particular to say that another step will be needed and that she will take further action. But there's only one thing I'd like to point out. The fact is, in one area, the matter is already so pressing that the local population has asked the mayor to move them out. You know, that's the problem. President, I know that maybe we shouldn't do this right now, but we are talking about citizens and citizens, all of them, one of them and the other, and it is important that we are looking for solutions that are both appropriate for each other. On this occasion, I thank you, and I really hope that we will find more suitable ways than to literally escape from our homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u474	I'm not going to comment on anything, and I'm not going to point out anything. Today we are taking a broad explanation of the procedure, we are already with others, and this will be the case. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, will ask Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u475	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll literally take what you said at the end. The night is young and the government is obviously still government, especially the lady's work and colleague Židan. I'll ask you a question first, and then I'll ask you something else. It's a bit liquid for me to have to go to the Minister with this helicopter emergency medical care, but somehow I find this discrepanian criminal after a dozen years from the start of this pilot project, when it was somehow said that we would have three bases, if I may say so, along with the bronze and the Mariboric. It's been a dozen years. It's still gone. The head of this type of rescue unit in Brnik said very plasticly that two or three successful interventions, when someone with spinal injury does not remain lame, but if we have to translate everything into the universal equivalent, into money, already mean the amount that is actually needed to establish such a form of rescue on our side of Trojan, because it is still not because it is somehow an unacceptable disciplinary, because in fact we pay the same health insurance as on your side of Trojan. It seems kind of problematic to me that this doesn't work out in a decade. I know I'm having a little trouble with this, but it's about these little inadmissibles, someone might even say the narcissisms of the little differences that I hope we can overcome them. After all, it's been in fashion lately to climb on a goat and offer some cookies, and then you can't get down. If I fall off my beak and don't hurt my spine, and I don't stay lame, I might need it. If I wasn't too funny, I'd like the minister to somehow answer me: When will this be established, when will training begin? This same gentleman, who is the leader of the only working unit, has made it very clear that this is not just the case, in the sense that from today to tomorrow we will start with something. It needs to be trained by people. When, on our side, can we expect these kind of freckles, which I hope will be as little in the air as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u476	Answers Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u477	Thank you for your word at this late summer almost night. But since we're talking about helicopter emergency medical care, I'm going to be expedient, and I'm going to give, I think, a short and clear answer. Indeed, after so many years of taking over, we would also establish a helicopter base in Maribor, from which a helicopter would fly and in these cases, when necessary, provide such assistance. Of course, the matter is not as simple as the Member has already mentioned. It is true that this helicopter emergency medical assistance is carried out with state aircraft of the police and the Slovenian Armed Forces and that it is currently only implemented from Jožet Pučnik airport in Ljubljana. In view of the 2012 EU regulation, the Republic of Slovenia or on its behalf must decide on how to implement this emergency helicopter in Slovenia. And right now, in early July, the Ministry of Health had its last coordination with all the ministries in the field, because these are quite a few, namely the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Infrastructure and also the Ministry of Finance, where we are preparing government material. I believe that we will be able to give it to the Government in a short time, where it will be necessary for the Government to determine how this emergency helicopter will be carried out. On the contrary, whether it will be a commercial lease or continue with such assistance as will be provided by police units such as the Ministry of Defence. And when this decision is taken by the Government on, of course, we will approach the amendment of all other acts so that this assistance can be implemented. According to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the technical conditions for the provision of helicopter emergency medical assistance from Edward Rusjan Airport in Maribor with the restoration of airport infrastructure are largely ensured, and the police air force also ensured that a helicopter could be available in this Maribor base. And once all these conditions are established, of course training will begin. I believe it will be early next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u478	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u479	Thank you for your expediency, but look again, we are – now you will say: These liquid, united leftists! – 15 p.m. at 11:00 p.m. In short, we have some pressure on some work within the EU that I would like to regulate on a commercial basis. The minister said well, the airport is arranged in Maribor – that is again what I like to weigh, put a lot of money into the infrastructure, and then we little do not know what to do with the infrastructure – we even have a guaranteed helicopter and now we will wait. Now I'm going to spread the darkness a little bit. It would be high time that I read those European directives to finally assume that we are part of the European Union and that we are also starting to act a little more proactively in Brussels, to have a tantamount relationship with countries with similar views as we do, and to make more decisive choices in such directives, this is such a beautiful example, which will also allow for such forms of organisations that are ultimately responsible to us or to anyone. I will not request a supplement, nor will I request a vote on the debate, because I know that I will be over-voted, but in autumn I will demand a change of rules, because these parliamentary issues are, in fact, a little bit of an elegance. There are so many of us here that we can play volleyball. If I am going to count because the United Left is still a coalition, which also has a strong ecological part, how much electricity we spend on this, I think it is a time to say that Slovenia is a green country, if we are saying that another law of ecology says that there is no free lunch, that we are also taking this into account when changing the rules of procedure. Good evening to the viewers and have a good trip home.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u480	Does the secretary want to answer that?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u481	If you'll excuse me, I'd still add only two, three sentences. The Ministry of Health will not propose that this emergency helicopter be carried out in the form of a commercial way, but will propose to the Government, and this was also the agreement of all the ministries already mentioned, that this emergency helicopter will be carried out in the form of a public service and we will also inform the European Commission. I have asked myself, and I can say that some of the other countries with which we are connected have similar problems, so there is a great opportunity and a chance that even in some part there will be an amendment to the European Commission regulation. So you can calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u482	Now the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark, will be asked by Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u483	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! In the United Left we advocate a safe age, that is, for a man worthy of a decent third life. Homes for older citizens are undoubtedly one of the forms of care for a safe age. We are approached by a number of citizens who live in homes for older citizens, with different observations and events that have been detected in the environment where they live. A few days ago, it was reported in the media that almost a year and a half had not carried out professional controls in Slovenian homes, as there was no legal basis and that it was a mistake caused by the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia. The reason should be in the Regulation adopted in August 2013, where it is supposed to be an inappropriate dictatorship that did not involve all healthcare providers. The Regulation excluded all operators who did not carry out health care and rehabilitation in social security institutions. In January 2015, the Regulation was duly corrected, so that it is now the legal basis for the implementation of professional controls. That's why I'm asking you: Who is monitoring and overseeing public institutions in older citizens' homes? If the event is monitored and monitored, are annual reports, such as those produced by the Ombudsman, produced? If such reports are, where are they available to the public? In view of the undeniable fact that the number of older populations in the third life period is increasing, that there is an increasing need for a safe age, or does your ministry plan to draw up a strategic long-term document for this area covering more than a quarter of the population of Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u484	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u485	Thank you. It's almost the next day, so good evening! Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Thank you, Dr. Hanzek, for the question. I would say first that, of course, we probably share this concern with all the parties in the National Assembly and also the general public that the elderly need to be taken care of. I think there is a need for our common concern in this place to draft a law on long-term care and personal assistance, which will provide the basis for us to drive these services more plurally. Today we have help at home, which is more or less within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, the differences are increasing in the amount of the subsidy they provide, and institutional protection in the homes for the elderly, where we provide relatively good coverage, so 5% of the older 65-year-olds have the option of staying in social welfare institutions in our country, but the problem is the amount of costs because pensions do not generally provide sufficient resources to cover the costs, so the municipalities are entering this story. With long-term care, we could cover this more systematically. The European Commission is also addressing us, we are one of the more vulnerable countries from the point of view of the ageing population, so what lies ahead between 2030 and 2060 are actually the challenges we have to face. We have approached this at the Ministry in such a way that the resources we have are European resources, together with the AHA Ministry of Health, the Group is a project that we are implementing where these needs are analysed, and also based on this analysis a strategy is being prepared. We had until 2012 the Strategy for the Protection of Older Persons, but co-existence is a longer title. At this point it is not covered, we do not have a strategy in the country, but we are preparing it on this basis. It is important, however, to prepare a law on long-term care. Depending on your question. You must be aware that long-term care is necessary legally in order to integrate social care services with health care. At the moment, you were still referring to this field that the Social Inspectorate, which is covered by the Ministry of Labour and is within the framework of the Labour Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, thus covers the supervision of social protection services, while the Health Services are covered by the Department of Health Insurance at Work and also by the Ministry of Health. What you mentioned was a policy related to health services. I can't comment on this, or I can't comment on it. As far as social inspection is concerned, all controls and findings are available in the annual report of the Inspection of the Republic of Slovenia for the work where the Social Inspection is part of this inspection, and the annual report is addressed by both the Economic and Social Council, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Home Committee of the National Assembly, and you are therefore all aware of it and is also available on the websites of both the Ministry of Labour and the Inspectorate. However, the fact is that, of course, we do not have enough social inspectors, as in the whole area of work inspection, because we are running out of inspectors. We are trying to ensure this through internal redeployments. Of course, we have annual controls, but we also have the controls that the competent minister orders if the minister is aware of the problems, even the anonymous ones, sometimes they happen, then we have a certain quota of extraordinary controls that we carry out each year. Otherwise, regular professional supervision takes place for about five years. So, controls are being carried out, but of course, if we had a larger social inspection, this would be easier and even more effective, we are working in this direction. But it's not that very, very worrying. However, I must say that the Ombudsman is also in charge in this area. Just last week, when I was in the guardian’s office when we talked about other things, she informed me, for example, that they had gone to check when we had the highest heat in the country, the temperature in the nursing homes, not just in the hospitals, so that these controls were carried out from different perspectives. For example, as far as security departments are concerned, where special protection is concerned, we have a field of demented, in short, in this area of work. Not everything is ideal, but it's not that bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u486	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u487	In particular, I will thank you for the comprehensive report. Maybe I would add this because you've already opened the question that it would be a really time to institutionalize long-term care as quickly as possible, so that we know what it is. I know, you know, it's been said for years, if not decades, but it's just conflicts between different parts of the government, and it'd be nice to know that you've been very committed to doing this once. Not only because of the old people, long-term care is also a possibility of saving unemployed young people, a few thousand or even a few ten thousand could hire them, but it seems that this is a thing that has not been interested in any government for years because they prefer to think about some imaginary ways of employment. That's all. Thank you. You can answer that, of course, although that is not a question. I don't know if I got it wrong. You said Dr. Hanzek. I'm not a doctor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u488	Is there anything else the minister would like to add?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u489	I would only point out that it is not true that governments do not take sides. Quite a few governments. Long-term care is such a big deal, but above all it is a financial story where additional resources will have to be provided, we will not be able to avoid it, but of course the question is how do we ensure that we do not burden our labour costs. Today was already a debate on the burden of labour costs. We need to look to ensure this in a kind of sustainable way. We have written down in the coalition contract, and I believe that this is the best or feasible possibility for supplementary health insurance to change in a way that we will also include a contribution to long-term care, that it is in some ways the only feasible way, I believe. We're just coordinating things now. It is not easy, but I believe that by the end of the year the proposal will also be linked to the proposal to reform the financing of healthcare with the Ministry. This is where we work hand in hand, which is the key, because health and social services need to be linked. However, when we look at how many jobs we have in the field of ageing, we also have an absolute reserve that needs to be used, and I would like it most if we could link this to the creation of jobs in social entrepreneurship and other forms, where we would also provide an opportunity to employ vulnerable groups and reduce the problem to a passive, i.e. to social transfers, but give people what they want, and this is, above all, a decent job and a chance to survive their families. And here is one option where we can provide 10,000 jobs with some smart policy that needs to be closed. I really believe that in 2017 this thing would go into the field of implementation and also ensure this long-term care. Without the full participation of all, i.e. intersectoral connections, this is not possible in fact, because it proved to be already at the time of Borut Pahor's mandate when it began to work very intensively in this area, but it has turned out that without the full support of the Government, the sector itself simply cannot do so. I believe that this government today has this support and that we will guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u490	And now it's going to be the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. The question asked by Violet Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u491	I welcome all those present at this happy moment of the last question of the mission at half midnight! Here we are with ministers worth exactly 13, plus the best professional associate of the United Left Lara. I'm asking the Minister of the Jews a question. Every year, the media keeps us informed about bees' seas. There's no exception this year, either. The cause of the plague has always been the inadequate use of sprinklers. Beekeepers inform inspectors about the seas, but they only react when it's too late and it's harder to figure out the causes. According to known data, the cause of a large part of this year's seas can be attributed to a plant protection product, following domestic poison, pesticide Actara used by wine growers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted the National Action Programme – NAP to achieve sustainable use of plant protection products for the period 2012-2022, in which, in the final chapter 8 entitled Data collection and method of reporting to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is loaded: "The Ministry shall set up an expert group which shall collect the required data or reports on a case-by-case basis. On the basis of data, reports and analyses, an annual progress report shall be prepared on the achievement of the NAM objectives with recommendations for future activities. The Section may also propose to amend the NAP with additional measures to achieve the objectives of the NAP." That's why I'm asking you: When did the expert group start working, and how many times did it meet? Have annual reports been prepared on progress towards the goals and where they are accessible to the public as they relate to information on public interest? So far, three annual reports should be prepared. Is the expert group or ministry intending to propose an amendment to the NAP by additional measures, in particular in the field of protection of bees from annual seas due to plant protection products? Does the expert group or ministry intend to propose to amend the NAP by additional measures in the field of groundwater protection, resulting in drinking water, and human health against plant protection products identified as potentially carcinogens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u492	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food is responsible. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u493	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is my great pleasure that I am still with you and that you are here with me. Since we've started talking about bees, I believe you're interested to know that right here, if anything, I see great progress. Allow me to mention the year 2011. At that time we had 28 beekeepers with applications, and the number of stumps affected was 2 thousand 130. In the last year, 2014 the number of beekeepers with application was 9, and the number of stumps affected was 247. There were also some reports this year, but as you've noticed, it was not a major nightmare, it was an individual. Before I start answering your four questions, I just want to say something. Unlike the general belief that these are harmful things that farmers do to bees and to nature, in the vast majority of cases this is not the case. The sanctions that a farmer may receive when using illicit starch, too starchy or at an irregular time, are so large, they are financially very large, they also mean the collection of direct payments and other payments of agricultural policy years ago, that we simply do not face such infringements anymore, in particular not much. The problem is the hobby of farmers and farmers who sprinkle on their gardens, on their three or four apple trees, and this is significantly harder to control. In this area, it will be necessary to move forward. As far as your questions are concerned. The Commission was set up in 2012. It consists of 29 experts. I must say, she's met several times. That was the first question. Second question: What about the report? This report has created a problem, you have correctly identified it, and this problem has been that statistics have begun to collect data on users. And this was a joint task of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and the Directorate for Safe Food in 2014. And then an extensive survey of spending took place, involving 10,000 users. The results of the processing are still not available, we are waiting for them and we will include them in this report, which is here before me. This is the 2013 and 2014 report, which is a report prepared as a draft, and we are waiting for this data to be included. Once the data are included, this expert group will first review the report, look at what to prepare at this time, and then, like all other documents of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, these data will also be made available to the public. And there's something else you need to say. The national programme itself was the basis for the adoption of the environmental part of the Rural Development Programme. You are aware that Slovenia, as a number of other countries, has been implementing this programme only since 2015. This is the first country we've been granted the programme. Some countries are still unable to implement it this year and will not be able to implement it until 2016. It will also be possible to assess which measures are sufficient and which measures are insufficient. Since I still have some time at my disposal, allow me to do the following. Of course, the programme and objectives need to be changed only when the results are seen. As regards data on atrazine and certain other substances, it should be said that the greatest burden is still some substances that have been banned for more than ten years. Unfortunately, these are substances that are slowly decomposing in the environment. On the other hand, the state of drinking water is very good, even if the potential effects of the use of plant protection products are taken into account. Even in those cases where they are found to be derogating, they are mainly microbiologically appropriate and nitrate content rather than plant protection products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u494	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u495	Dear Minister, I agree with you that the programme and objectives need to be changed when the results are seen. This is precisely why, since the establishment of the 2012 Commission, there should now be three reports on the basis of which the programme and objectives could be modified. I apologize for the inconvenience at this very hour, but the task of the opposition is to keep a close eye on your actions, although sometimes because of our conscientious work we have been repeatedly criticized by the coalition. I've been here since eight o'clock in the morning, too, it's a late hour, but I'm putting an hour in your heart of Einstein's thought that after the death of the bee, mankind will live for only another five years, so these things are very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u496	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u497	I have to find out it's the other way around. In no case do I feel uncomfortable being here with you. I'm really looking forward to it. Even when we have meetings of the Agriculture Committee, I am always sad if we end too quickly. Even the last session, when I was ready to be in the room with you till 12:00 p.m., ended at 9:00 p.m. I believe we will correct this mistake in the future. As far as bees are concerned, maybe just this. Everything that you, honourable Member, have said has been said. Maybe it's just that bees are considered the most important pollinator. Questionnaires, on the other hand, benefit only agriculture at annual level, after assessing international studies for more than €150 billion per year. In Europe, this estimate is €22 billion and in Slovenia 140 million. This is one of three reasons why a world bee day takes place. This activity is led by the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia. On 2 April it was also taken over by the Government of Slovenia. I must say that we have been supported by such a competent committee of the European Parliament, we have the consent of all the Member States of the European Union – it is understandable that our Minister has also received a great deal of support when I met with FAO representatives from various countries, including the Secretary-General, who will visit Slovenia. Speaking of bees, I think this joint action of ours is our world bee day, the possibility that Slovenia will become more recognizable and that we will also do some good for tourism and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-14-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u498	We have thus concluded item 1 of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members of Parliament. I thank the President of the Government, the Ministers, the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given and the Members for the questions raised. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday, 15 June 2015, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am adjourning the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
