ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the fourth meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Andreja Katič from 17:00 on, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Vesna Vervega, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Suzanne Lep Šimenko, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mr Primož Hainz, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Dr. László Göncz, mag. Matej Tonin, Luka Mesec, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Igor Zorčič from 15:00 on and Mr Srečko Blažič. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister-General and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia to the 15th item of the agenda, the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nusdorfer and the candidate for the Deputy Ombudsman to the 19th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda for the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 16 January 2015 with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 4th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 18. At the time of the day, this is at the request of the assembly of Members and Members of Parliament to decide on the decisions of the College of the President of the State. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 14th meeting on 18 December 2014, that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Service, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Register, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutions and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free legal assistance should be examined in a simplified manner. On 23 December 2014, on the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on those decisions of the College. The applicant's representative will present his position for all five decisions together and we will vote on each decision separately. I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to request Mr Jožet Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the Government, Mr President, fellow Members! Now maybe an introduction. This is, I think, the only meeting of the National Assembly at which the opposition party, when I deduct ratifications, has passed more laws than the Government, as well as more other matters than the Government. Something like this has never happened in the National Assembly. The government has obviously gone about solving these problems in a way that is unusual, it is said, by proposing laws according to specific procedures, either by a reduced procedure or by an emergency procedure. And the problem is that these proposed laws violate the provisions of both the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the Government and other matters related thereto. First of all, I would like to point out that, when the Government proposed these five laws following a reduced procedure, it violated Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure, which regulates precisely which laws and when they can be proposed after a reduced procedure. Such changes are possible to propose when there are less difficult changes and amendments to the law. But in this case this is not the case, as the Minister said at the time of the introduction and adoption of these laws in the Government that it was the first step towards reforming the judiciary. Thus, reform matters are not dealt with in the short run, and the Minister has already disqualified himself with this declaration of procedure. Nor is it the case in this case that an individual law or its individual provisions cease to be in force. In any of the proposed laws, this criterion is not met because it is a novelty. Nor is it less difficult to comply with other laws or with European Union law. This condition is also not met because GRECO recommendations are not the acquis of the European Union. And even in the case of these five laws, it is not a matter of amending and supplementing the proceedings before the Constitutional Court or the decision of the Constitutional Court. In short, all these five proposals concern that the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not met. The government coalition has been informed of this, but it has confirmed the procedure for all these draft laws which have been tabled in the legislative procedure at the College. That the Government should propose these laws by means of a reduced procedure is a problem, for there are probably some people in the Government who are real skilful persons and who are also persons who have been appointed by the National Assembly in business are not foreign to them because they have already been working on them. The fact that the Government comes with these laws after a reduced procedure in the legislative process is a great surprise. With regard to these proceedings, the Council of Justice also responded, which proposed and in its communication stated in its statement that amendments and additions to judicial legislation should be adopted in a comprehensive manner, following regular proceedings and not in a simplified procedure. This is a quote from the statement of the Council of Justice. Such non-compliance with the rule of law would not be expected from the Government, which has the opposite in its programme, that is to say respect for the rules and institutions of the rule of law. The second reason why we oppose the reduced procedure is set out in Article 9, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the Government. This Article states that the Government must invite the professional and other public to submit their opinions and comments in order to draw up the rules, and this period of invitation shall not be less than 30 days. It is written in the Rules of Procedure of the Government for 30 to 60 days. The government has cut this deadline considerably. It has been made available to the professional and other public from 3 to 9 days for responses, including the Council of Justice, including the State Prosecutor's Council and all others, which means that only a tenth of the minimum standard in the Rules of Procedure of the Government was available up to a maximum of one third. And I think that's the problem. Other letters from the housing groups also show that there was not enough time to comment. The fact that the expert and other public do not have the opportunity to comment on the proposals made by the Government is already coming to this field of transparency or that the Government does not in some way want the professional public to define the solutions proposed by the Government. I think that neither the Government nor the President of the Government, nor the Minister of the Department, who was recently the chairman of the Commission's anti-corruption committee, which has given a great deal of emphasis to transparency, could afford such a procedure. Neither could the President of the Government, nor should he allow it. I would like to recall the letters issued in 2012 – when another government, which has also proposed procedures following a reduced or urgent procedure – was set up by the Anti-Corruption Commission. In 2012, the Commission issued two opinions to prevent corruption, which exclusively touched on the procedures of the government of Janez Janša, which proposed spatial legislation in short and urgent terms. This opinion is very interesting already in the title, as it speaks of the need to see this in the context of these legislative changes in the light of the lack of the principle of economy, the public, transparency, legal security and the non-controlling of corruption risks. This refers to one Commission opinion to prevent corruption. The opinion is a long eight-page opinion signed by Mr Klemenčič, then president of the Senate for the prevention of corruption. And now all I am asking is, when spatial legislation has changed and there have been really little changes in that work, the Commission, in order to prevent corruption under the leadership of Mr Klemenčič, has recognised the high risks of corruption. It seems strange to me that only the area of spatial legislation would be one that is at high risk of corruption. It is obvious that this opinion was written with some particular purpose. This opinion was issued on 21 June 2012. Only three months later, a second opinion was issued by the Commission on anti-corruption, also adopted unanimously, slightly shorter, on the six sides where the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has first and foremost failed to make the procedures for amending the laws on the administration of state assets and the self-government of local communities transparent, not in accordance with the principles of transparency, not managing corruption risks and so on. This report was also unanimously adopted and signed by Mr Praprotnik, Deputy Klemenčič. It is interesting to ask what has changed in this area at this time, that there are now no signs of corruption risks in amending legislation following a reduced procedure. I believe that even when legislation changes in another area, there are probably reasons for respecting these principles. One of these opinions from the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption even states that they regret that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has not been invited to draw up solutions to these laws. So, at this time, the only change is that the former President of the Commission's anti-corruption Senate, Mr Goran Klemenčič, is no longer the chairman of the Senate, says someone who assesses the work in the government, but the minister. Someone who proposes solutions to the laws in a way that he has exclusively criticized and challenged. If the 2012 opinions written by the Anti-Corruption Commission aimed only at discrediting the government of Janez Janša, we can only understand this in this way, we cannot understand otherwise. In fact, it is only a question of whether the then President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption acted politically or professionally, whether in two years he had forgotten what he was teaching others, whether he was then abusing the situation, or whether he simply did not understand and how he acted now when the prime minister, different from when he was a top state official, was the head of the body that assessed and saw errors in all the people he had taken into his hands, and wrote different opinions, etiquettes and penalised them with fines. I would just like to add that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption, was not the only one of the state institutions to have disputed with the then-in-Janša government to deal with certain areas of legislation in this way. Among these is an information officer who has stumbled into how the government of Janez Janša changes the Law on State Administration. And you might also find a statement by the Ombudsman from that period and so forth. Clearly, it was a frontal attack on the current government using all the possible institutions created by the rule of law, and these same institutions are now, when things are going the same or very similar, completely silent. Even when Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek was Prime Minister, none of these institutions responded to the many reduced procedures, the urgent procedures proposed by the current government. One of the innovations brought by this legislation is the recommendations made by GRECO. Why these recommendations need to be put on a legal level is a question. Recommendations are recommendations. If, as I said earlier, those who have made recommendations or opinions fail to follow their own recommendations, it will only take some time. We now make a big story out of some GRECO recommendations from some institution, but at the same time we do not take into account the recommendations of the European Commission and the European Council, which are vital to this country. At the same time, we can draw attention to a number of cases where, while GRECO's recommendations were probably recorded in the functioning of certain institutions, such as the Commission's action to prevent corruption, these recommendations have been forgotten relatively quickly. Even with the members of this same committee. Let me just remind you that in the National Assembly, in the previous term, we had an investigative commission investigating a bank hole that the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, who had been heard before this investigative commission, refused to make any statements because he should not have, because he did not want to talk about the persons who caused this big bank hole and so on. But even more so, one of the Senate members of the Anti-Corruption Commission has been employed by the Bank with the largest bank hole. What helps us and what we need recommendations from GRECO if those who should respect them and live them take advantage, abuse them and do exactly the opposite of what they have recommended and do exactly as they have asked of all others who have been treated in these procedures. I think it's a paradox that's not a couple within Europe. One of these laws also provides for a psychothesis to be carried out in order to take on a role. In view of the way in which the legislative acts of the National Assembly are taken into account, how the Rules of Procedure of the Government apply the GRECO recommendations used by the KPK and the views of the KPK, it would be good if the President of the Government first carried out any procedure through a psychothesis before any person is appointed to any important function. Dear colleagues, we propose that, for these and also for a number of substantive reasons, which I will not mention here, because you have all of them in the building institutions, all of those associations which are being touched by this amendment of legislation, I propose that you do not support these reduced procedures. This is said to be released because there has been a lack of discussion in both the professional and civil public spheres. It seems even more logical to me that the Government of these laws would withdraw from the process and allow the reform of the judiciary, which is one of the most risky areas in this country, to be seen also by many Supreme Court and Constitutional Court rulings, as well as by the European Court of Human Rights, to take this reform project of justice seriously and to propose solutions that will remain in practice. Last but not least, to ensure the implementation of laws through these supervisory tasks, which belong to the Government and to the National Assembly, that laws are taken into account, without having thousands, hundreds of decisions in court, whose annulments are solely based on the definition of a violation of the Constitution in the field of human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u3	Contrary to the notice I gave at the outset, I inform you that Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec is also attending the meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. On the basis of paragraph 10 of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on decisions taken by the College of State, the National Assembly shall decide without discussion and explanation of vote. I therefore put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Judicial Service Act shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. At the same time, I add that if the decision is not taken, the National Assembly will deal with the draft law on a regular basis, and this will then apply to all the others on which we will vote. Procedurally, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u4	I'm sorry. We've got some problems. Dragan Matić spoke, not you, before. I'm asking you to take care of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u5	Is your microphone on, Dr. Matic?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u6	Just to be clear, the ventilation in this house is kind of a constant puff in my eyes and I've installed a piece of material so that I don't have constant inflammation, and it's just a technical problem. I'm sorry to bother you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u7	Okay. So we can vote on the proposal for a decision. Recheck the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 29. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Courts shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 30. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 29. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 41 votes against 30. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. Finally, I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free legal aid shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 30. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 45 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order for the question to be asked shall be set in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by Members of Parliament and members of the opposition and the question put by the ruling coalition Member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point today they apologized: Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs; mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food; Mr Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology between 13 and 15 p.m. and Dr Dušan Maramor, Minister for Finance. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. The first question raised by Mrs Ludmila Novak, Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u8	Dear Mr President of the Government, honourable President, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Privatisation is a topic that has plagued the spirits in recent years, and in recent weeks the separation of policies and citizens has intensified. So we have two petitions: one against and one for privatisation. It is more than clear that most state-owned companies have been poorly managed and often their value is even declining, rather than growing and increasing the return and value of businesses themselves. Due to the lack of fresh capital, in most cases they are also lagging behind. We also all know the problems of state-owned banks, because we had to recapitalise them with billions of taxpayers' funds, and their loans to our economies and citizens are therefore no more favourable. Christian Democrats wonder how it is even possible that, in all these known facts, some still oppose privatisation or the sale of state property to responsible owners. At the same time, there are little indications and indications that the privatisation is being opposed by those lobbying and the related parties, who draw money from these resources for their existence and retain their position and sources of income through various advisory contracts. And this is one of the key arguments why in New Slovenia we strongly advocate the withdrawal of policy from the economy. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: How are the privatisation processes of 15 companies on the list going? Are you inclined to propose to the Social Democrats that this list be recast and overwinded?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u9	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members, welcome! Madam Ambassador Ludmila Novak, thank you for the question. My answer is next. Twice in the National Assembly there was a very thorough debate on privatisation. In this debate, it has also proved that the legal, political and professional reasons that justify what the Government also advocates and, of course, as President of the Government, that the privatisation process of the fifteen companies, which has already begun with the decision of the National Assembly in its previous composition, on the initiative of the Government in its previous composition, continues. It is simply the credibility of our country. We have committed ourselves legally and politically to this process of privatising these fifteen companies. Some of the procedures are in progress, as I will say, others will begin, and Slovenia is obliged to make this process credible on the basis of its own decision, and I stress that the professional legal and political reasons therefore speak in favour of us continuing this process, as this government also advocates. Of course, a number of concerns arising from the privatisation process are also justified. In this regard, I would like to speak in such a way that, as we continue to privatise these 15 companies, we must by no means allow this process to proceed without any very clear criteria. For example, at least three very important criteria must be strictly taken into account in this process, among other things. One thing is for sure is that the process of selling each of the state-owned companies must be fully transparent. It is absolutely necessary to prevent any corruption in such a process. Another time. The sales process must reach a price comparable to that which is legal for the company or state property that is being sold, so the price must be appropriate, in accordance with all the relevant criteria that remain. And thirdly, if I mention only these three main criteria, of course there are others, it is necessary to ensure that the buyer is strategically important, that the buyer is one that comes with some development model that wants to develop the company that buys it, which, of course, also brings about normal employment and increased employment if the company is doing as well as we would like. In short, all these and other criteria will have to be respected if we are to move this process forward. However, what is crucial is that the government will present to this well-respected National Assembly a working proposal for a state-owned governance strategy. And that's what no government has ever been able to do. The point is that even now when we are talking about privatisation, we are not talking about a sale, but we are talking about how we need to be responsible and operate with state property. That is why we are now preparing this strategy intensively. This strategy is already under consideration within the expert forums of the coalition. It will soon be presented to ministers and the government for consideration, and then the political opposition, in short the entire National Assembly and not least the public, will be informed, because we are in the government that a broad, thorough public debate must be launched on this issue. Only then will the National Assembly, together with the Government, be able to take that decision, which is so important, that strategy, from now on, how we will deal with state property, how we will properly systemise this property, so this state-owned investment will be sectorally and otherwise, and how, if we decide to sell this property, we will make this sale, on what criteria and in what way. Let me repeat, it is essential that we continue the process of privatising these fifteen companies with due consideration, taking into account all the important criteria I have set out, and that we, in particular, should establish and develop as soon as possible and adopt this governance strategy with national assets.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u11	Mrs Ludmila Novak is asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u12	We certainly also agree in New Slovenia that we must not sell the property, but sell it responsibly to the responsible owners, and therefore a strategy is needed. In recent years, however, Slovenian governments have been very unstable. One of the main reasons for this is state-owned companies. While citizens are monitoring developments in Parliament and the government and often dealing with peripheral topics, there is usually a struggle of government parties and a competition for the management of individual state-owned enterprises. Most of the time, of course, those where a lot of money is turned. This fight breaks relations between political parties and also leads to government crises. We have witnessed this a number of times, not least now. In the supervisory councils are the people sent there by the ruling parties. Dear Prime Minister of the Government: What will you do to make the composition of the Governing Councils more professional and to make the overseers actually responsible for the consequences of unfailing or demeaning conduct? At what stage is the process of appointing a new leadership and SDH supervisory board, and how will you prevent the impact of lobbying on this holding? So far, we hardly know that one of the supervisors would be responsible for large financial gaps in banks or for the poor state of state-owned enterprises. Usually, after the elections, if a change of government is made, there will be rapid changes in the supervisory boards and administrations, no matter how they did their job. At the same time, it must be said that one of the key moments for the sale of state assets will also be the composition of the new management of SDH.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u13	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thanks for the extra questions. First, let me say that the government is and remains stable. It is true that some discussions have opened up on the issue of privatisation among coalition partners, and the Social Democrats have also publicly questioned certain aspects of these privatisation procedures. However, I am sure that these differences in views are bridging and that we will bridge them. We are also actively involved in the design, as is said, of national investment management strategies. So in this respect, I see that there is a stable but very intensive communication process ahead of us, which must lead to the desired objectives. With regard to the SDH Supervisory Board, let me stress that the process of selecting new supervisors is ongoing. In the past week, a special commission within the Ministry of Finance has just finished its work, which, among other things, I think 47 candidates who have been reported have made a closer choice, submitted it to the Minister of Finance, and this week will continue with these procedures, which will then be rounded up in the relevant offices. I assure you that the Government will do everything it can, knows and is urgently required to ensure that in these procedures there will be any predominance of policy over professional and other legal criteria. It is clear to us, and this is also a guarantee of what I have said before, the future responsible management of state property. So I am sure that it is necessary to establish professional supervisory councils at all levels in the SDH itself, i.e. the Slovenian State Holding. Where our powers are such that we can influence this, we will certainly, as the Government, make sure that the chosen people with knowledge and people who, of course, have the right experience and are at the same time incorruptible, are willing to perform and perform tasks in the interests of the country or in accordance with the function they perform. This also includes a response to the possible impact of lobbying. Of course, the government will make every effort, in accordance with its competences, to eliminate this influence of the lobby and finally stabilise this Slovenia here also in accordance with the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u15	She has Mrs. Ludmila Novak on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u16	Dear Prime Minister, we'll take your word for it. Privatisation is such an important topic that we should discuss it more than once, even though we have discussed it more than once, and face the opinions of experts and citizens. We often blame Europe for pushing us to sell businesses because of our own interests, and the fact is that Europe, on the proposals of all indicators on poor governance of businesses and state-owned banks, proposes that this bad burden, which is always the beginning of our state finances, be eliminated. No one is forcing us to sell them to foreigners, but to responsible owners, who will also better manage their assets and themselves bear the consequences of their legal or wrong decisions. Politics needs to get out of the economy. It is right that we are still discussing this subject, so I propose that a debate be held on the topic of privatisation in the National Assembly following Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u17	Your request will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, i.e. on the application of Article 246(2) on this issue. The second is asked by Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u18	Dear President! The time when we expect answers to questions is especially interesting to me today because I am going to ask away from what has recently been very up-to-date, namely privatisation, economic growth and everything else. However, we cannot ignore the fact that this economic growth is particularly interesting and we all like to repeat it very much, but we do not hear the other part of the sentence that Umar always warns about and says "if appropriate reforms and measures are to be made by the government". Now it's a problem when we say "but." I must say, President, I was incredibly surprised on June 21st, when I heard from your mouth and not from the Minister of Health that you had announced the reform that the Minister had been defending herself for the last four months. More. At the hearing, I was very clear when I asked if there would be a health reform. She said no, there'd be just some upgrade. When we had a proposal for a rebalancing for 2014, I asked her again the same question. And I got an answer that wasn't the one you predicted on June 21st. You know that all the research is very clear in the direction that, in fact, Slovenians and Slovenes are the most important health, in the first place. There's family and friends right next door. This means that it is really one of the most important issues that this government has addressed on your proposal or statement you made. Of course, I'm interested in what's most important. We're in a discriminatory country, on the one hand, I hear there's going to be a health reform and on the other hand we have a cash register that has a positive growth. Amazingly, always the end of the term has this cashier's positive growth. It has positive growth, but on the other hand, we always have problems, and now even in a hospital, they can't pay their wages. President, my question is very simple. I want to know: What on your part would this reform be, given that the Minister of Health said that it would be the only upgrades we have today? How are we going to take care of this, or what are your serious measures in the government that are likely to be known already in the 2015 rebalancing and in the 2016-2017 budget forecasts if you go to the two-year budget? And what's even more important is what's necessary, of course, and this is: When will the debate be, because on the Ministry of Health's website, I checked this morning, there is no reform or spirit or hearing?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u19	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u20	Dear Member, thank you for asking. It is true, I have taken my stand, and I am also taking my stand as President of the Government for the reform of the health system and health, which falls within this framework, and there is no significant difference between me and the Minister of Health. It is more about the game of words and emphasis. In fact, we are both committed to a thorough improvement of the health system, i.e. for all of those, I stress the structural changes that this sphere of society must experience, so that we can make patients more accessible and better service, so that we can allow nurses, medical technicians, midwives and others, especially doctors, to improve working conditions and that we can improve the health system in all respects. I'll tell you a little bit more about this at the following time. True, you are right, the economic growth that is present, and the reduction of employment, which we are all looking forward to, although these are the first indicators on which we should not rely too much, all of this must not put us to sleep. However, we are aware that in the field of health, as in some others, these fundamental structural movements must be made. That is why we must implement the following things: we will adopt a resolution on the national health plan 2016-2025, a strategic document that will follow exactly this objective that you want to discuss here in some way. This will be a framework for further changes and for a further vision of the development of quality and accessible public health. There are currently intensive analyses of the health system, including foreign professional teams, which help us to assess exactly what changes we need to make in cooperation with international and domestic experts. We are preparing that big stunt, this is a novel of the Health and Health Insurance Act, maybe more later, because it is a fundamental structural shift that we have to make with this law, especially with regard to health insurance. Of course, we will complete the construction of emergency centres and a diagnostic therapeutic service facility in Ljubljana, i.e. a new emergency room in Ljubljana, and build nine remaining emergency centres. We will conclude the eHealth project, which also includes an interoperable spine, e-reception, e-procurement, short-term projects in the context of electronic access and contacts between citizens and health institutions, which will greatly facilitate access to prescriptions, access to medical advice, reduce species and lead to many other good effects. Of course, we will also centralise, as far as possible, and inform additional public procurement, both in the field of health care and in general within the framework of public administration. But of course you're right. Without medical cooperation, the cashier's office will not work. And here we have the paradox. So far, the health treasury is obviously not in the right way, I am speaking of course about the Health Insurance Institute, it has not cooperated with the country in the right way. However, the country was not able to provide the necessary reforms on the part of the Ministry. On the basis of this experience and our coalition programme and operational plan, we need to take this matter differently. That's why we need a different system. Not the kind in which the Minister is responsible, but the money he has is the health treasury, in a way that does not allow for reform. That is why we want to allow for changes where money is available, that there will be a responsible person there, who also has a vision of reform that is compatible with the government's programme and with what our minister will represent to the full, and also a government with and with it. It is therefore a matter of ensuring that the health treasury is compatible with the Ministry, and this must be decisively achieved by decisive steps to amend the legislation and to implement these and other measures which I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u21	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, requests a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. We have been listening to all that we have heard today for some time now. For the reform of the previous mandate, the previous government has made it very clear that it will not even start because it cannot do so in one year. But I didn't get an answer to your question. I agree with you on everything that needs to be done, but we haven't heard from you in the last four months. Nothing. This is the first time we've heard from you what needs to be done. However, for me, the question is particularly important, given that in recent times ministers have been investing everything in the short run, I am interested in: When – since you mentioned the national strategy – does this mean that we will really only deal with this strategy in the first year – can we then expect reform only in the next year? However, you listed some measures that touch at least five or six laws. And I have not observed any widespread debate or calls for discussions on any of these five laws to start preparing, changing or anything. And, interestingly, even in the government's work programme, not all the five laws you mentioned today are listed. So it's going to have to change that, too. And I want to know when, because I think that's what Slovenians and Slovenians are interested in, who have this slowly too much on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u23	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much for the additional question. All these laws are beginning to prepare, although some of us are still in the analysis phase, some of us are already preparing texts. The resolution on the national healthcare programme will be adopted this year. However, I must point out that the Minister of Health has faced a very unenviable situation, I could say, with the ministry in its wake when it took office, which was also due to the fact that in previous mandates several ministers have changed rapidly in this area and in a short time, but also in the way they have approached things, they have not been able to succeed in any of the steps necessary for the reconstruction. Thus, it is extremely difficult for the Ministry to correct a number of things in return and to settle matters further. The Minister is very active, unfortunately also facing serious corrupt practices in health care. As you know, there are also cases of complaints, of numerous irregularities, and he must also take care to prevent these irregularities, or to report them to the competent authorities, or to investigate them. However, I can say that it is already preparing for a brief larger consultation of all stakeholders in the field of healthcare, including probably some experts from abroad, and I think this will happen within a month or two, at which all the conclusions of these plans will be reflected, including some of the normative programmes given for a comprehensive review and discussion. What our government advocates is to go firmly into this, I would say, change, reform or upgrade the health system, but at the same time thoughtfully, with the participation of all stakeholders. We need to listen to the Chamber, the Institute, that is, to the medical cash register, to the doctors themselves, to the nurses, also to the patients, even to the public, and without this response, which we need at this moment, of course, with a very clear plan, which we will change if necessary, given these responses, we will not go into reform, but we will deliberately set it up. However, I am sure that the first signs of system improvement will be visible this year. In some ways, some changes are already in progress that may have been under-reported and already represent the first achievements in this area. But he says that those fundamental structural movements come this year, and especially in the coming years, because for such a reform as you have correctly estimated, it is less than a year. This should be seen in the range of years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u25	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Of course, the Rules of Procedure allow us to vote on a broader debate. I'm not taking this opportunity because the coalition is going to make it impossible for me anyway. However, I will take this opportunity to take note of your proposals that you have listed today and, above all, to this end, to take note of the promises and to monitor closely what the Minister of Health is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u27	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I must thank you for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The third one's asking the mag. Marko Pogačnik, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. President of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues, colleagues! Mr President, I would like to ask: What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards privatisation and the management of state property? I would split my question into two parts, namely, the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the first part of the package of 15 companies in the sales process. Over the past period, we can mainly hear from some of your coalition partners that they are in some way opposed to privatisation and are committed to halting sales procedures. I want to know: Why do you not clearly, as Prime Minister of the Government, come before the public and say what is the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the sale process of these companies? Do you not, as Prime Minister of the Government, estimate that by giving your coalition partners some negative signal to sell these companies, because these companies are already at the end of the sales phase, by giving a negative signal to all potential investors and thus by jeopardising future sales procedures, in particular that this negative signal coming from our coalition partners is somehow reducing the price and quality sales? However, the following points are added: What is your government's position and why the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia still has no names for members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding? Your coalition contract also makes it clear that you are advocating transparent and controlled or controlled privatisation. Do you not feel that the first step in this appointment of a Governing Council would be to do so? The Supervisory Board should be appointed in July 2014. Today we are January 2015. Your government has been in power for over four months. Why was it not one of your priorities to appoint members of the Supervisory Board, and when will the members of the Supervisory Board be appointed, or will the National Assembly have the option of voting?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u29	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u30	Mr Member, thank you for the questions and substantiations. First, let me say that my position on the privatisation of companies has many times been publicly articulated, presented to the public. Soon after the government's appearance, I made a public appearance on television and said I was in favour of completing the process or continuing and completing the privatisation process of 15 companies. I have said this several times in various interviews for both domestic and foreign media. Last but not least, I made this clear also at the moment when the press conference took place at the hundreds of days of the government and last time, I think it was very decisive, on TV Slovenia, in an interview on various topics, when I also made very clear the position of the Government, which I have just mentioned. It is true, as I have said before, that there are some concerns in the coalition, particularly with the party of the Social Democrats. Of course, in our SMC party, we also understand this with the coalition partner Desus, but we are talking about this, but the government's views on this issue remain unchanged and I stand for these views. Of course, it must be understood that even in coalition partners we count and believe that, given that they have supported this process of privatisation of fifteen companies on their own in the previous term, in fact, at the level of the Government and the National Assembly, I would say twice that the process has been put at some point under question, I think that they will also insist on the decision they stand by themselves and that we are increasingly taking this argument as a matter of urgency, so that the continuation of the privatisation of fifteen companies is decisive for the credibility of our country, both legally and professionally, as I have said before. We're not giving any negative signal here to anyone else or to anyone. On the contrary. If we are now talking about abroad, I would mention that last week I spoke to a representative of the European Commission, who explicitly supported our work, the functioning of this government and said that we are on the right track. Even with regard to privatisation, he said that we are giving clear, unequivocal and real signals. In fact, they also talk about these signals, if I only highlight this aspect, the results of the three largest or three very large global credit rating agencies that have been in the past period, i.e. even during the period of this government, have increased all the ratings for Slovenia. For example, last week, Moody's credit rating increased Slovenia's rating. In fact, we are now seeing what has happened in the time of this government – of course it is not only the credit of the government, it is the credit of all stakeholders who contribute to successful development, but the government is enabling and encouraging and proactively looking forward to this process, that it does not stop and continue to encourage it – in a low-risk circle of countries, which is very favourable and results in Slovenia's bonds, interest and so on. A number of indicators show that this is also the aspect of maintaining credibility with regard to the privatisation process, giving a clear signal to foreign investors, foreign credit institutions, the European Commission, including the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank and all others interested in Slovenia. What's even more important, I would say, but this, and I repeat, is that we keep some credibility to ourselves, that the process that we have legally and politically committed to it and that it is now incorrect to stop, continue and continue due to certain procedures that have already begun. Of course, we need to make sure that the SDH activity that manages this property in these and other procedures is correct, and therefore the process of selecting and appointing supervisors is already underway. That this process has moved so far, and you know, this situation has arisen because of the elections and the period, so to speak, when there was no new government. And the government had to do so. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the following reply: [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u31	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u32	Dear Prime Minister, you haven't answered some of my questions. Initially, when the National Assembly will receive a proposal to appoint members of the Supervisory Board, on the other hand, I had in mind, in particular, potential candidates for the purchase of this company, not for the European Commission, that work here is detrimental to this negative attitude towards privatisation, particularly by the coalition. And one thing still surprises me. More and more, something is said on your side, and the other is actually done. A few minutes ago, members and members of your party and the coalition rejected the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which was clear, in order to continue transparent privatisation and the withdrawal of the country from the economy. And you're responsible here for transparent privatisation. On the Committee on Finance and monetary policy, which ended a few minutes earlier, you refused to do so. I believe that all these acts carried out by your coalition, your government, give very negative signals to the public. Your client advocated transparency, openness of dialogue, and then we heard in the media that this strategy, which is one of the most important, is being prepared in a narrow closed circle and that you have made available to the members of the government only half an hour and then you picked up this strategy. The statement by the head of the SMC Group was also quite clear that they did not have time to look at this strategy. When will this strategy come? [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u33	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I will briefly answer these few questions. The strategy will, as it is said, come into the hands of ministers to study ministers and governments and then, of course, also Members of the public when it is sufficiently professionally prepared. We're in the final stages of this preparation. Such a strategy has not yet been drawn up by any of the previous governments, but should, in fact, have been done before. And we are now building this up with a number of criteria, which are also of a professional nature, taking into account the OECD guidelines on adequate corporate governance of state property and so on. This takes some time, but we are working very intensively, so that the matter will be presented more broadly in a short time. Those rumors that some things were put into hands and so on were somewhat inappropriate, for, as it were said, at the moment the matter was ready, coalition partners and everyone got it in expert and other grades. When it's finished, you'll all know about it in accordance with your authority. It is hard to imagine, I must admit that I did not follow the debate today on the committee, so I do not have the data, but it is hard to imagine that SMC members would be against transparent privatisation. I don't know how you're justifying this. I think that SMC is absolutely for transparent privatisation and it is probably some kind of misunderstanding that will have to be cleared up. Let me also say that the process of selecting SDH supervisors has been delayed due to the suspension of the work of the previous government, because of elections and also because the new government has played its role in extremely unfavourable circumstances, as it has had to start immediately with intensive work on the two rebalances and on some other important systemic measures, where implementation will need to be adjusted slightly. As soon as possible, however, she asked this question. Now this process is going on intensively and as the next phase is in progress, Members will also be informed and you will be able to decide accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u35	Procedurally, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I now take advantage of the rules of procedure and request that a public debate be held at the next meeting on the privatisation and management of state property. However, there are several reasons for such a business request. Dear Prime Minister, I don't think you've answered many questions or given a flat-rate answer. You did not respond when the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board was expected. With regard to the strategy itself, which is one of the most important which Slovenia would have to have 20 years ago, we have not received a concrete response. And after all, at least to all the answers you've given, it's worrying to me that in your coalition and in your government, the left hand doesn't really know what the right hand is doing. The answers regarding the strategy by your ministers or those who met in the government were given precisely by them, that the strategy was given for half an hour and that they did not have time to identify themselves. Today, Members and Members of your SMC party voted against the proposed decision to continue transparent privatisation and to withdraw the country from the economy. So is the coalition. I think there is more to this than public debate. This strategy and privatisation procedures, I think, are also very important for the 2015 budget itself, which you are preparing to be important both for the development of the economy and for the further development of Slovenia itself. I would understand your answers if today was October for you to be in the government for 30 days. But I think it's very sad that, in 120 days of your coalition, you couldn't come up with a proposal for five members of the SDH Supervisory Board. Draft strategies and the management of state assets were launched already during the time of the mandate of the government of Janez Janša, in 2015 a classification and drafts were prepared, part of the continuation of the strategy was also prepared in the mandate of Alenka Bratušek. I don't think your answers are solid enough. And it is sad or worrying for both Slovenia and the Slovenian economy that you do not have a more serious approach to such an important issue as privatisation, sale and management of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u37	Mr Member, your request for a general debate will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow. Fourthly, Mr Matjaž Han, SD, asks.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! In recent months, however, we have witnessed a positive trend in economic growth, favourable assessments of the house of credit, positive growth in employment and relatively good access to money. Under the line, however, Slovenia recovers. Unfortunately, for the moment, our citizens and citizens, workers and workers, are at less risk of recovery. So there are many challenges before the government. We expect the Government to accelerate its work and, in the initial stages of intervention, to focus all its efforts on fostering economic growth and, for us, the Social Democrats, a significant increase in employment. Social Democrats remain and we will remain firmly committed to the aspirations that we must accelerate the necessary changes, which is a prerequisite for continuing and strengthening recovery. In doing so, I stress the priorities in a specific order: firstly, strengthening growth and employment, secondly, helping the socially weak to preserve the social cohesion of society and then, after that, respecting, public financial consolidation. Therefore, in the light of these facts, the distinguished President of the Government, I ask you the following questions: How will the government take action to strengthen the important treatment of the economy for us? What will it do to finally launch important national investments, such as the second track, modernisation of railways, construction and continuation of hydropower plants on the Central and Lower Savi, and the beginning of the third development axis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u39	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u40	Mr Member, thank you for the question. It is true that the results and trends are so far encouraging. We all know that Slovenia is recording quite a lot of economic growth, far above expectations. We know that unemployment has finally fallen over a long period of time, below 10% in January. For example, compared to last January, there are more than 25 thousand 200 people who are active. And these are very good indicators. I mentioned earlier that foreign credit rating houses are increasing our ratings, making us an economic and investment-oriented environment, so we are already falling into a low-risk circle. Economic growth is also forecast to continue. Of course, the state must do everything, and the government will work hard not to put these processes at risk, but to encourage them, and we will do so. Of course, it is also crucial for the Government to talk mainly about the economic and social field, to strengthen, preserve and strengthen economic growth, to continue to reduce unemployment and to exploit our Slovenian advantages. Slovenia has wood, here is a huge opportunity, which, according to past periods, shows us. Slovenia has water, Slovenia has a favourable geostrategic position. And, as you say, rightly, it must finally take advantage of it after all planned in the past in the direction of modernisation of railways, including the construction of a second track. Of course, the government will also carefully examine the possibilities for developing the third development axis and do what is possible in this mandate, according to the situation as documented. And, of course, the country will also implement a number of other projects. We've reported a large list of projects in the Juncker package, and they're publicly available. And all these projects are those with which the government will show that it will be active, that it will build, that it will create. On the other hand, we will also build in such a way as to increase employment, social security and the rest. Thus, we could say that, on the one hand, we will improve the business environment, access to financial resources and more internationalise, thus opening up Slovenia, by removing a number of administrative obstacles and further striving to reduce the grey economy. There is already quite a success in this effort. We will continue to do our utmost to attract foreign direct investment. That is why it is so important that we have also increased the rankings of these credit rating houses and have become a more attractive country. Of course, there is also the promotion of knowledge, technology and all that is involved. Second of all, start investment. I already mentioned Junker's package. It is clear that we will also have to look for foreign investors, perhaps even infrastructure companies. That's also a matter of assessment. I can ensure that the competent ministry, as well as the competent ministries, as these are inter-ministerial projects, work intensively here. For example, they study intensively the possibilities of upgrading the railway cross, thus creating it and upgrading it. Here we are also talking with neighbouring countries, for which this project is interesting, I am talking about Central Europe, as well as those remote countries that will be able to come through the port of Koper, through Slovenia, to Central Europe and to ourselves. Let me also mention that we have already greatly improved the use of European funds. For example, we have advanced to 10th place in recent months, and even in recent months we have been at the very top of the European fund-raising process, as the European Commissioner has also given us recognition at a recent visit to Slovenia, of course, Commissioner for this area. Let me also mention that we also have a budget structured so that with the budget structure alone we will encourage investment and with one of the government's projects, if I only mention this for the energy renovation of buildings that are actually already under way and will now intensify, of course we will achieve a number of multipliers. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] continue along this path. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u41	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. The Minister of the Interior, Mag. The spring Györkös Žnidar and the Minister of Justice mag. Ms Eva Irgl, SDS, will ask Goran Klemenčič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, dear Minister! In May 2014, the state prosecutor's office in Salzburg requested the Ministry of Justice, namely the International Legal Aid Sector, to be heard by Silva Gorenc, Boris Mužič, Marjana Armed Forces for a crime of murder, as co-workers in accordance with Article 75 of the Austrian Penal Code. Mr Gorenz was questioned in October and did not answer the battle. His lawyers argued that it was a crime which had gone completely out of date in the Republic of Slovenia. The Court then replied to the Austrian State Prosecutor’s Office on this basis. It is true that, under the Penal Code, such a crime has become obsolete in this country, but we also have three types of crimes that never get old – not in Slovenia. These are crimes against humanity, war crime and genocide. In view of the fact that the former State Security Service has been killed to support the existence of the former totalitarian regime, and that, until now, it has been proven in some way that the State Security Service has killed at least 70 people, possibly more, we can justifiably claim that it was crimes against humanity, which also under Slovenian law, as has already been said, is not obsolete. Crimes against humanity are not only necessary in the context of war, but also, for example, if they are in support of a certain regime. So it's the systematicity of the murder. I can say that it would be good to have something done in this area, and so I ask the Minister of the Interior first: Do you intend to give any direction, of course, in accordance with the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police, to the police in relation to these acts? And I'm asking the Minister of Justice: Under your jurisdiction, will you allow a possible investigation into crimes against humanity committed by the State Security Service and the former system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you. The Minister of the Interior will first answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Mrs Eva Irgle! On this issue, the Ministry of the Interior has already received two questions in the past year, by Member Gorenak in January and on your part in May. I believe that the purpose of your question today is to check what has moved from that point on to this point. The Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, had already answered a similar question last year, if I am not mistaken, in June. It was already stated in the reply that by then the police had reviewed more than ten thousand documents and other data carriers obtained from the Republic of Slovenia Archives and from other sources. In this regard, I can also say that the police are still working with security authorities such as Austria, Germany, Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Several coordination meetings have also been held with representatives of foreign police, given that certain investigations, depending on the local and actual competence, are part of the police's domain. At the time of the last reply, I can say that the investigation is still ongoing. The police are also checking all the additional information they have obtained in this regard. As part of the investigations, the police also cooperated intensively with the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, which received an interim report last February. The last and second report was sent in January of this year. The police have also requested further guidance from the Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, which they have not received so far. And it also depends on the continuation of the investigation, and the fact that the state's prosecutions are independent and also independent are state prosecutors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you. The Minister of Justice will also give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, Mrs Eva Irgle! In response to the Minister of the Interior's reply, I think that after receiving your question, it came on Friday, the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana has asked for a briefing on the measures under the State Prosecutor's Office. And that's basically all I can do right now. I promise I will then provide you with an explanation in writing as soon as I have the answer. We both know that the Prosecutor's Office is not, for example, an authority within the Ministry, and the Minister of Justice or the Government has no authority to give him political or professional instructions. However, we are certainly interested in what is going on with this procedure and on the basis of the answer we will then consider further possible measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you. The Member State shall request a supplement to the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Yeah, I can say here that the police are obviously working, the D.A. isn't. We can look for these reasons in many ways, but I will quote something, Mr Klemenčič, as you said, I think in 2005, for Youth. The comments on crimes against humanity are already found in The Hague Convention of 1907. From the point of view of prosecution, these crimes are also easier to prove. For there is no discolouration of the destruction of a particular group; it is enough to act in the context of systematic beatings, rapes, tortures, persecutions and so on. Both in the case of the State Security Service as the predecessor of the Judgment and in the case of Ozna, who was the predecessor of both the State Security Service and the Udba, occurred on behalf of the regime after the war, that tens of thousands of people were killed out of court. We can say that these are systematic killings and also systematic killings when we are talking about the State Security Service and systematic tortures that no one has ever been responsible for before. Mr Klemenčič, you are no doubt a great expert in this area, I personally appreciate this very much, so I believe that we will agree that, given what you have also said about Youth, crimes against humanity have occurred in this case of State Security and, of course, post-war beatings. And as has already been said, a crime against humanity is not only in the context of war, but also in support of a certain regime. It is therefore a systematic killing in the event of post-war beatings and in the case of killings committed by the State Security Service. So I ask you again: Are you going to do everything within your power to make a possible investigation into crimes against humanity, given that we know that a specific murder as a particular murder under our legislation has been committed by the State Security Service, for example? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Magg, Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič will give an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Yes, but in this part, I fully agree with you. I remember that interview. I believe that we should and I think that the European Convention on Human Rights also provides the basis for this, but unfortunately not our constitution that certain crimes will never become obsolete. And it doesn't matter to me what color they are, red or black, Slovenia may have something else to do in this area. I agree with that. As Minister of Justice, not to withdraw any responsibility, but to be fair, the laws are, the crimes are, the authorities that have to prosecute, detect these acts are, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you. Madam Ambassador, Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to hold a debate on the response of both ministers. Also because I believe that this social policy space needs a broader debate on this subject. Given that this is an extremely important subject where we are talking about the inviolability of human life, about personal dignity, about security where everyone's right to life is protected by law, I propose that we therefore discuss the Minister's response. This also raises the issue of a valuable breakthrough with the former non-democratic and totalitarian regime, which, of course, is known to have systematically violated human rights because of political, ideological objectives. Even by taking lives. He was also illegally hiding, murdering domestic and foreign citizens. As already mentioned, I am talking about the State Security Service or the predecessor of the Udba. They carried out inhumane practices which, even if they were carried out on the basis of the rules at the time, were not in conformity with the law and were not in conformity with the civilisation standards. That is why I propose, my dear colleagues, that we, however, hold a broader debate on this subject, if I have correctly understood the last reply of the distinguished Minister, then I believe that his reply has also gone in this direction, that we still need a broader debate on this subject, so I ask you to vote on this proposal tomorrow or when we will vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27 January 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now Mrs Violeta Tomic, the United Left, will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! When visiting the municipalities and after talking to the mayors and mayors, we were reminded of the problem of lowering the averages of municipalities. The reduction in the average will also prevent co-financing of projects from local resources for already negotiated projects already under way, while in the majority part they are financed from European funds. This would really mean that the expected savings of EUR 1 million would actually lose EUR 7 million, because of the funding ratio of 15% of own resources and 85% of European funds. The Ministry's proposal to replace this loss of funds by an increase in citizens' duties is extremely pointless and non-lifelike, as the tight economic situation increases the social support obligations of the municipalities and has no one else to take. The additional problem hindering the smooth flow of investments is the very late signing of approved contracts, which is why the activity is concentrated in the last quarter of the financial year, which means time constraints, hasty and therefore less quality work and cost increases. It follows that savings are at all costs, even though the price of this will be several times higher than the apparent amount saved. That's why I'm asking you: Have you examined in sufficient detail the consequences of the proposed measures at the Ministry, since they have identified and reported on potential damage to the municipalities as a result of outstanding projects from the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013? How do you intend to overcome this challenge, that is, to prevent municipalities from their own financial participation on the basis of years ago signed contracts, taking into account the social situation of citizens who cannot yet be further burdened by the municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you. The Minister of Public Administration will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u56	Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, thank you for this question. The starting points that come from your question are still a little bit of a correction, so I'm going to be very specific. We have proposed to the municipalities a number of measures that we are negotiating with them and also in the discussions, namely: free use of property register information systems, appreciation of electronic auctions, the inclusion of 11 cohesion projects as a priority also in the next financial perspective, the amendment of the Debt Regulation, which allows municipalities to be indebted, the regulation of different municipal fees, the increase in the possibility of legal entity, the easier contribution to land registers and so on. Why am I listing these measures? Because they are measures that do not in any way affect the social situation of citizens, but reduce the actual possibility or burden of the municipalities in their operations. That is why I cannot agree to the thesis that it is being saved in a way that is passed on to citizens far from it. However, we also insist on the government’s side, and in doing so, we agree with the congregations that action from the congregations should be expected when we too can effectively cut costs. As far as impact assessment is concerned. They are very accurately foreseen and evaluated. We are familiar with data from municipalities, data from the Ministry of Finance and are also subject to quite long-term coordination, where we want to agree on exactly what those common effects are. We currently estimate them at around 17 million euros. With regard to its own participation in the projects, it is important that, even at the request of the municipalities, it is important to facilitate the additional indebtedness of the municipalities, which themselves claim to be relatively low in debt compared to others in the European space. At the same time, a specific measure is also envisaged which would allow 44 of the most vulnerable municipalities to continue to be directly co-financed by these development projects. About the late signing. Yes, I agree, but the overall financial perspective has somehow concentrated practically in this last year, but it is not to ignore the fact that 620 million euro was directly allocated to the municipalities from the previous financial perspective, of which 92 % was already realized by the end of 2014. It means that they have a very high level of implementation, there are currently 93 operations and we do not see a problem with such large deposits, in 93 operations with this assistance additional indebtedness and co-financing of 44 developmentally endangered municipalities, the problem was to provide an additional 50 million participation, as long as the only remaining open in this financial perspective. However, I think it is also important that these 11 infrastructure projects have also been given to ensure that governments are taking priority in addressing the next financial perspective. We hope, we do not, I assure you, that this will not in fact endanger the functioning of the municipalities, nor these austerity measures, which I would not call austerity, but rationalising, will not reflect on the financial situation of the citizens themselves, because they are not based on drawing on the financial burden of citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you. Mrs Violeta Tomić requires a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you for your answer. Of course, you don't see the problem, but the mayors see it. In the field, they are very concerned about this, especially the underdeveloped regions that are at risk of development. It is probably not in line with the strategy on coherent regional development that the underdeveloped municipalities give much more to the common treasury than they get from this treasury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you. The answer will be complemented by the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Maybe another explanation. There is a big difference between developed and underdeveloped regions. As a result, the averages are not allocated linearly, but there are corrective factors. It's very important to know. Therefore, the undeveloped regions through the so-called balancing mechanism get significantly more than they would actually have after a linear division. Finally, it is necessary to know that the municipalities' current consumption, not to mention investment, has actually increased by 8% in recent years, while the state budget has fallen by 9 to increase employment by 4.5%, while employment in the state administration has decreased by 9%, that the municipalities have only received 8 million unpaid transfers of state property to the municipalities in the last year. So I'm talking about facts that suggest that although mayors may see the story differently, the figures show that there is an even more rational possibility in municipalities, given that this option has actually been implemented with concrete linear numbers that we show at the level of the state administration and the wider public sector. But the mayors' views are very, very well known to me, because we often sit with them and coordinate these very problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, Mir Cerar Party, will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Madam Minister, Mrs Irena Majcen, distinguished colleague and fellow Members. Representatives of local communities, municipalities, Economic Chambers and companies from Koroška address questions about the reasons for the delay in the implementation of the project on the northern part of the third development axis and expect an appropriate response from the responsible ministries. In the spatial placement process for the north part of the third development axis, the Ministry of Infrastructure acts as the initiator of the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, the Ministry of Environment and Space as the coordinator of the preparation and Dars as the investor of the spatial act. According to information from the Ministry of Infrastructure, there has been a delay in the continuation of the project on the northern part of the third development axis, since the route of the motorway is not located on the section from the Šentrupert connection to the Velenje south connection. The delays in the placement of the third development axis route are therefore the reason why the project documentation for the already located route on Velenje south-Slovenian Gradec and the phase of the construction of the third development axis in Koroškem has not been produced. Despite the multiple conclusions that the northern part of the third development axis is from Velenja to Koroška priority, there has been a backlog on this northern part of the third development axis, while starting on the southern part of the project with the realization of the siege at Novi mesto. The project of the third development axis is included in the set of the Juncker package, which must start within three years, so timely placement is all the more important. Since the Ministry of Environment and Space is the coordinator of the preparation of the spatial plan, I ask you, Madam Minister, why was the delay in placing the third development axis at the section from the Šentrupert connection to Velenje south? What will you do to ensure that this part of the route will be placed in time for the continuation of the project of the third development axis and have you included the Ministry of Agriculture and other stakeholders in the implementation of the placement? At what stage is the placement of the third development axis on the section of Slovenj Gradec-Dravograd-Holmec, which runs along the corridor, which is also important for the neighbouring state of Austria? Will you propose to the President of the Government and to the fellow ministers the additional measures and activities necessary to put intervention procedures into place in the case of a country of strategically important projects such as the third development axis? Madam Minister, I thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Ranc. In the process of preparing the State Spatial Plan, our task is to obtain a positive opinion on the appropriateness of both the environmental report issued by the competent ministry, namely our Ministry, the Directorate for the Environment, the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Branch, based on the opinions of the environmental management bodies of the Ministry of Public Health, Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries, Water Management, Nature Conservation and Protection of Cultural Heritage. From January 2011 to June 2012, the Ministry of Agriculture gave a threefold negative opinion on the planned arrangements as it considered that the intervention to agricultural land was too large. During this time, the possibility of placing the route on other areas was sought, where reservations to the installation of the route were even more. One of the reservations is that there is also a source of drinking water in this area. Our Directorate believes that, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, it would be possible to seek and establish feasible relief measures that would, in spite of the acquisition of agricultural land by a new road, establish conditions for improving agricultural land and agricultural production conditions in the lower Savina Valley. In the section from Slovenj Gradc to Dravograd, a draft DN was also made for a fast road. In May 2012, however, a public decomposition was already carried out, which has remained calm since October 2012 due mainly to opposition from local communities. This month, the Government also decided to re-check the traffic entitlement of the fast road. Here, in some ways, we are now referring to the initiator, this is the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is obliged to provide new planning points on the basis of which the Government will take a decision to continue the preparation of the VAT. The position of our ministry is that the preparation of the VAT for the new road is continuing and the dynamics of construction are adapted to the possibilities of providing funding. At the section from Otijsko vrh to Holmec, the most appropriate variant has not yet been selected. All the options that have been addressed in the variant study are less stable, less interesting, both transport and economic. They do not meet the basic conditions for their installation. This procedure has remained calm since 2012. The baselines were verified in the context of the amendment of the transport study. On the basis of the results of the study and the verification of other design points, our Directorate of Infrastructure joined forces at a meeting with Darsa and adopted a common position to propose to the Government that the procedure for the preparation of the DN should be stopped. Our Directorate has the task of informing the Government every six months about the issues and dynamics of the preparation of the VAT by proposing measures to speed up their preparation procedures. At the same time, the government may also be defined for individual procedures. It is our task and we will also issue this report this month, so that the Government is expected to be dealt with in February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues! I'm sorry to have to kill this minister with this question. I asked the former Minister twice this question. There were many words, and the actions were negative, rather than positive. My question is about the rehabilitation of bridge facilities. And I'll start with a sentence from one of the Slovenian journals. One year after restricting traffic over 19 bridge facilities for a large majority there is no solution. Although, in normal terms, it would have been sufficient to restore as much as a tenth of the amount of the duty paid on registration by vehicle owners. In January last year, the Slovenian Directorate for Roads found that at least 19 bridge facilities, in particular bridges, were necessary financial assistance in order to carry out their rehabilitation. I asked Minister Omerzel a question in January. He said, "In three months, we'll be preparing recovery programs, and then within six to nine months, we'll do all of this." Since the Minister had done nothing of his own within three months, I asked him in April what he had done in those three months, when the rehabilitation programmes were supposed to be on the table and the implementation was expected to begin. Then it's stuck. In all ways, the Minister wanted to get rid of this issue and did not want to promise anything but a time-span for recovery, regardless of the financial source, whether it supports short-term or long-term measures, how it works with local communities, how it is to draw European funds on these projects, what is the economic aspect of non-implementation of these bulkheads, what is the transport security aspect of non-sanimation of these measures, etc. As of April, all things stand. According to the latest information, two projects are only supposed to begin to revive somehow, and everyone else is standing. More. In the past week, we have experienced one story, where an inspector probably oversaw that a bridge no longer meets certain security aspects in Sečovje, and another story, instead of closing up, opened up. Minister, for the introduction, I am particularly interested in the financial and time-consuming aspects of the resolution of bridge facilities: How did you set up this work in 2015 or in the coming years of your ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Tomaž Lisec, thank you for the question! Clearly, this debate has already been a hot topic in the previous term. Unfortunately, I probably won't be able to deal with any more optimistic predictions and forecasts, although I won't say I'm not trying to get these things settled as soon as possible. In 2014, so unfortunately, no work was completed on any of these bridge facilities which were closed or partially closed at the beginning of this year. By means of the 2014 budget rebalancing, resources were then provided for the continuation of works on the three cut-off contracts and therefore on three crossings from the list of these bearing restrictions. These are bridges across Pivka in Prestrak, bridge over Socka near Škrlin Castle and bridge at the Trojans. At 17 facilities there is still limited traffic restrictions due to reduced load capacity and work on these facilities are not actually carried out, except for minor repairs of equipment at 14 facilities. I must also say that, on the basis of the inspections carried out on bridges in 2014, there are still 283 bridges in poor and very poor condition that are more than five metres long. Of these, 197 are in critical condition, which means that repairs are urgently needed. Of these, a safety analysis will need to be developed for 44 facilities to verify existing load capacity. At this point, as you know, it is in preparation for the 2015 budget rebalancing, and the continuation of remedial works and reconstructions will, of course, be carried out according to available financial resources. On the inside, we will focus on these activities, according to the repair of these bridge facilities, the highest priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you. The Member of Parliament, Mr Tomaž Lisec, demands that the reply be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, we agree, you are not guilty of acts before 1 September 2014, and the public will probably judge you by your work and not by your words from that time forward. I think that, on the Committee on Infrastructure in the previous term, we were Members of the coalition and the opposition in agreement when we gave your predecessor a proposal and unanimous support to give him support to provide an additional 50 million within the state budget as an incentive to provide this money to all other colleagues, especially to the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government, but not to do so. I hope you will be more successful, Your Honourable Minister. In view of the fact that you have not come with any number, I would like to know whether you may have worked with the Directorate or with your official work to calculate exactly how much funding would be needed during this one-year period. Last year we talked about about about 30 million for these 19 facilities. Now we're talking about 10 million. I wonder: Is any more of the box number mentioned in the drawer? But above all, I want to know: If any of these 283 critical bridges have already been taken into account, what number would be needed in the coming years for the rehabilitation or possibly a new construction of these bridges? Above all, I am interested in the economic aspect of the rehabilitation of these bridges. We have two such facilities in my congregation. Not only are they catastrophically regulated, but one is at the entrance to the so-called trade zone, where there are quite a few large companies – I think almost a thousand people are employed in these companies – and large trucks have to operate. As you know, these carriers are not locals, but they come from all parts of Slovenia as well as from abroad, and they have problems when they are suddenly in front of the bridge and they have limitations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič will complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you very much. In order to rehabilitate these bridges and some of the most urgent sections where partial closures are now in place, it is estimated that the Directorate would need to provide EUR 15 million. For other bridges that are still in the review and possible action phase in this direction, I do not currently have assessments. However, I can say that the assessment is global in order to maintain some current state of road infrastructure transport, in order to invest in regular and investment maintenance of around EUR 200 million per year. In short, just to keep some current state, level. However, if we want to stop this deterioration that we have witnessed in recent years, these resources should be allocated even more to existing infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you. Comrade Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you. Since the Minister has not answered a few questions, and we probably all agree, regardless of which end of Slovenia we come from, perhaps not exactly from Ljubljana, that the transport picture of our country is very poor, so I hope that tomorrow we will agree in the vote that the debate will take place in the National Assembly, both on the financing of the resolution of bridge facilities – but I believe that the debate will be longer – as well as on the impact on the traffic security regime of our country, on the economic aspect of how we, Members, as well as the Government, think about the possible introduction of a petrol toll or cent – or whether we will decide on a policy of short-term solutions or a policy of long-term solutions in this area. We should also ask ourselves what the role of local communities is in the rehabilitation or settlement of these issues, because while they still have some euro, they invest it in road infrastructure. I believe that the local communities are also very interested in bringing together, irrespective of the politically mixed colors, a good and thorough debate in the National Assembly on the rehabilitation of a bad state road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27 January 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jožef Horvat will now raise the question to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am asking a question to the Minister of Public Administration, including the Vice-President of the Slovenian Government, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. The Rules on Marriage are governed by individual issues in the area of marriage. Among other things, Article 12 regulates the timing of marriages and provides that the Chief of Administration shall ensure that the marriage is concluded on Saturdays. The third paragraph of Article 12 provides that the marriage shall not be concluded on a day that is a holiday or a day off in the Republic of Slovenia. The month of May is the traditional month of marriage – we both know why, Mr Minister. This year is the first Saturday of May 2nd, which is a day off in the Republic of Slovenia. For that day, prospective spouses planned to enter into a marriage and have already filed marriages with the competent administrative office or local office. The chiefs of administrative units issued decisions that did not allow the marriage to be concluded on that day, referring to the Regulations on the conclusion of marriages. Many prospective spouses have therefore already decided to marry abroad — to marry abroad! – mostly in neighbouring countries, which, of course, also means a loss of income for a number of economic operators whose activity is linked to weddings. They're innkeepers, wedding planners and the like. The provisions of the third paragraph of Article 12 of the Regulation on the conclusion of a marriage which prevents the conclusion of a marriage on Saturday, 2 May this year are an inanimate and unreasonable bureaucratic obstacle. Mr Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar! Removing the described non-life and unreasonable bureaucratic barriers is a test that will show the Government's sincere will, including you personally: How serious do you mean by removing unreasonable bureaucratic barriers? And: How serious do you mean by setting up a good, friendly service for citizens? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, thank you for that question. I can't exactly elaborate on it, but I'll be very specific and very clear. The Regulation, as you correctly specify, provides that marriages are not concluded within the competence of the administrative unit on a day off, and if Saturday comes on a day off, of course there is a problem in the Regulation. Otherwise, the Regulation on Administrative Operations states that, in exceptional circumstances, administrative units may order work on such a day, but we do not consider the conclusion of the marriage to be an exceptional circumstance. However, the same question was also raised by Minister Mrakov – I stress that the rules fall within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and that I have also coordinated this answer today with her. It was already presented in October 2014, as this Regulation was amended in 2013 precisely because the administrative units had different practices and applied this day differently. At the time, no comments were made either by the administrative unit or by the users themselves of this Regulation. They also checked the position of the Minister, and we both firmly agree that this anomaly can and must be eliminated; it means that by amending the rules we can allow marriage commitments to be made even on a day off or on a holiday if it falls on Saturday. This means that we can solve this problem so that it is not possible to conclude a marriage on Saturday if it is a holiday. I can assure you this because we both agree, and we agree that this can actually be regulated by correcting the rules of procedure. I am also interested in your information that married couples go abroad in a mass way and make weddings there — we do not have such information. However, we have exactly the opposite information: mass or significant numbers of couples from Croatia actually come to the Slovenian side and enter into weddings here, because the procedure is cheaper, simpler and even regulated, because it is necessary to know that every time a marriage is concluded abroad, then legal recognition of this marriage is also needed at home and I think that it is not so simple. However, as a result of these consequences, I assure you that this irregularity, if I may say so, will be eliminated in the Regulation as soon as possible, because the only consequence that actually comes from the fact that the mother does not have compensation for work on Saturday, but has compensation for work on the holiday day, which is higher, here will be some minimum additional costs, but I believe that as a country we must ensure this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat requests that the reply be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer and also for the promise that this severe and unreasonable bureaucratic obstacle will be lifted, which means that, in my understanding and your interpretation, it may be possible to have a marriage on Saturday, 2 May this year. I have this information that young couples of the future intend to carry out weddings abroad because I am an authorized person who has been carrying out this civil marriage ceremony for many years. Of course, it is difficult to estimate how many couples who want to marry on 2 May 2015. But the estimate is that it's about 400 pairs, but it's pretty real. Why? In 2013, we had 6 000 204 weddings in Slovenia, which is on average 516 per month. This means that the number 400 is quite real for Saturday, 2 May 2015. I was disappointed by the reply of Mrs Minister, your colleague, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, who is indeed a signatory to the said regulation, but the consent of the Minister of Public Administration. Today, optimism is a little more and I would therefore like you to confirm to the Slovenian public once again and to those planning the wedding on 2 May this year that it will be possible. I am sure that the heads of administrative units will also hear this, and I believe that it is probably an hour's work, that this rule on marriages is amended and published in the Official Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you. Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, please welcome a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you. Let's be perfectly clear. I doubt that all 400 couples who are supposed to come to the wedding on average on May 2nd were planning and going abroad. So let's be real about the data. I absolutely agree, however, that this is an obstacle that needs to be removed. What I can guarantee right now is that the willingness on my part and on the part of the Minister of Labour, the family, the social affairs which is the proponent of this regulation, to settle this very quickly, and that if the rule is adopted as soon as possible, all those who have already asked the administrative units to enter into law and have been rejected for the reason that this service does not then work for the citizens will also be informed and invited to reconsider. I can give you this assurance, but I cannot give you this moment a definitive assurance that the Regulation will be adopted and applied this year. I will do everything in my power to actually make it happen. At this moment alone, I see no reason not to settle this in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u83	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, will be asked by Mr Uroš Prikl, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Hello, colleagues, distinguished ministers and ministers! My question concerns the establishment or re-establishment of a department to monitor the health care of children and adolescents. As we know, years ago, in the presence of the then Institute for Health Protection, this institution is today called the National Institute for Public Health, a department for monitoring the health status of children and adolescents, which was abolished as well as all other departments for individual population groups in 2004. At present, we do not have an institution with a comprehensive monitoring of the health status or protection of children and adolescents. Based on the expert opinion that the Department of Health Monitoring for Children and Adolescents is urgently needed, as this is a very vulnerable target group, I ask: Are you thinking, or do you have in your agenda, in your plan also the establishment, better said, of a department for monitoring the health care of children and adolescents in the Republic of Slovenia? Let me remind you that the Expanded Faculty of Paediatrics at the Ministry of Health, or the Ministry of Health, has addressed this issue and supported the idea, of course, aware of the importance of the operation of such a department, particularly in terms of maintaining and strengthening the health of young people. The task of the department would be to monitor and process data obtained in the framework of preventive checks on children and adolescents, as provided for in the Guidelines for the implementation of preventive health care at primary level. Such data and log-in data would provide a good basis for an overall assessment of the health status of children and adolescents, as well as a basis for all activities carried out or carried out by the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and take such decisions as to eliminate deviations in the field of health care for children and adolescents. It is said that all virgins in the field of health care of the young population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u85	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! Greetings to Mr. Ambassador, Mr. Prickle. I thank you for your question, because we are aware that monitoring the health care of children and adolescents is one of the most important tasks. That is why this is also one of the most important tasks of the National Institute for Public Health, which is the successor to the Institute for Health Protection. Among their tasks, monitoring and studying the health of the population and the health care of the population is crucial for children and young people. For this reason, we cannot agree or hold on to the fact that we do not have an institution in Slovenia to monitor this. In addition to monitoring the implementation of healthcare for children and youth in Slovenia, the National Institute for Public Health also conducts a so-called long-term study entitled Health-related behaviour during the school period, which can be compared with the 32 countries participating in this study. The most important risks to adolescent health are related to some of their behaviors, such as smoking, alcohol consumption, illicit drug use, sexual habit, self - image, and mental health. With a view to a comprehensive analysis and upgrading of the implementation of health care for children and adolescents, with particular emphasis on their preventive health care and reducing health inequalities, the National Institute for Health Protection has also been implementing the project Together for Health financed by the Norwegian Financial Mechanism since September 2013. The aim of this project is to upgrade the current programme of health care for children and adolescents by ensuring fair and equal access to quality health services and health-care interventions for all children and adolescents in Slovenia. In the project there is a lot of room for developing indicators for better monitoring and processing of data from preventive health care for children and adolescents, which will allow for even better monitoring and more effective action in this area. The National Institute will thus play a major role in implementing the recommendations and results of the project. On this occasion, however, let me mention that at the Ministry of Health we have just completed the preparation of the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health for the period 2015 to 2025, where special emphasis will also be given to young children and their prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u87	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, thank you very much for this part of the answer! I am pleased that you have this in mind or in the plan of your activities, because we all know that health is our greatest wealth, and in particular in this target group, which can, I am told, be very and very vulnerable. Of course, I did not say that there was no institution to cover this area. My thinking may have gone in the direction that after the end of this section in 2004, there is no special section, a special segment, a special work at the NIJ, or then an IVZ that would fully address this issue, and I estimate that maybe it wasn't best then that we stopped such a department. I am thinking this in the context of what has already been said; I am thinking this in the context of a thematic meeting of the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities, where we have talked about the social situation or the social situation of children over the last period, during the recession, and this is indirectly affected by the potentially poorer health situation. Of course, I would not have been able to mention anything in the context of this, knowing also the functioning and resources of the Medical Home Dr. Adolf Drolc in Maribor, if it were not or would not have been your decision to do so in the context of the National Institute for Public Health, I am sure that, according to your expertise, the capacity, the existing resources of this task, this systemic coordination activity could also be carried out smoothly and with a great degree of expertise in Maribor, that is, at the House of Dr Adolf Drolc in Maribor. Thank you very much for this part of the answer. But I would ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u89	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanislavo Setnikar Cankar and Minister of Culture mag. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar will ask the mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Alliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you. Dear Minister! For some time, we have been monitoring worrying data on how poorly Slovenian primary school students turn out to be on the PISA page for reading literacy. Recently this was published a study by Brna kultura and the purchase of books in the Republic of Slovenia, under which Dr. Samo Rugelj is signed as head and signed by Dr. Miha Kovač and Dr. Andrej Blatnik as author. The study continues the approach developed by the study of the Book and the reader and gives us a glimpse of how reading habits and purchasing habits have changed. And since 1998, when the last one was done, much has changed, and the situation is worrying. Thus, researchers for 2013 find that 42% of Slovenians have not read a single book in the last year, 49% of Slovenes have not bought a single book, and 2.8 books are classified heavily under the European average. On the other hand, if we know that we have an extraordinary production of books and that we are above average visitors to general libraries with more than 11 book loans per year, then we must be aware that we are doing something wrong with reading culture. That there are, in particular, problems at the level of integration of modern concepts of literacy into the school system and that further development of the library system can improve the situation, researchers themselves warn. That's why I'm asking you, distinguished ministers who cover this area: Given the alarming state of literacy data, are there any concerted measures, since the current activities of both ministries clearly do not produce sufficient results? Are you going to design an inter-resort strategy for literacy development, which was drafted by the Andragog Centre of Slovenia years ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u91	The Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar and Minister of Culture Mag are responsible. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u92	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable President of the Committee, thank you very much for the question! Of course, we are aware of the importance of this area and have been working with the Ministry of Culture for quite some time. Allow me to release data now that has been interfering with the past for a long time, and I would only point out some facts. Participation of Slovenia in international literacy research was ensured for both primary school students, adolescents and adults. Some secondary literacy studies have been funded, mainly based on the results of the tests that you have highlighted and provided the basis for further planned work. Target and research projects in the field of literacy have also been financed. In 2011 the National Conference Brena Literacy was held in Slovenia and Europe, which was prepared in partnership with the Ministry, as well as institutions in its composition, namely the Pedagogical Institute, the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia and CMEPIUS. In 2014, a working group to review and complement the National Strategy for the Development of Literacy was set up to strengthen the functioning of the various institutions and sectors in this area, which was inter-sectorally composed and even wider than the previous group, with the exception of culture, education, including representatives of the Ministry of Health, Labour, Family and Social Affairs. This working group has the task of preparing materials for further action in this area. We expect the orientations of this working group to be made available at the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Madam Members, for this question. I also agree with you that the PISA 2012 survey has shown an extremely poor state of reading culture. Indeed, with 38th place between 65 OECD countries and its partners, we cannot possibly be satisfied. The second study in 2014, which you also mentioned, also deals with reading literacy and has shown that there are 42% of non-readers among the population, which is more than 3 percentage points in 1998. Those who have not read a single Slovenian book in the last year are considered to be non-readers. On the other hand, we know that most readers come to the books in the library, so I can firmly claim that both the state and the congregations are not aware enough, at least judging by the cuts in funds to libraries in recent times, what the importance of libraries is precisely for raising reading culture or reading literacy. The key question is why in families, schools and libraries and as a society we do not know how to properly motivate our children, students, students, students and not adults to read books. This low reading literacy is damaging not only to the non-readers themselves but also to the development of the society as a whole. Part of the answer, I think we can find in the lack of a strong commitment of society to the Slovenian language, to the Slovenian book, to the Slovenian culture during the transition, which, last but not least, is reflected in the financing of culture, education and, of course, also has a bad impact on the development of society. At the Ministry of Culture, we are aware of the seriousness of this situation, and in this regard, we have prepared seven sets of different measures, which I will probably be able to say only after you have added [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u94	The request to complete the answer is mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I thank both ministers for their response, and I look forward to continuing your response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u96	I ask that the two ministers continue to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. First, I would like to talk about two strategic documents – Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2014-2018 and the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017. Together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the National Strategy for the Development of Literacy is expected to be renewed. At the Ministry of Culture in recent years, we have also encouraged literacy by financing projects in the field of development of literacy. In addition, at our initiative, the Government has set up a special working group to monitor the implementation of the National Programme for Language Policy. At the initiative of the Ministry of Culture and on the basis of the measures taken by the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy, two expert groups were established, with the consent of the Ministry of Education, who drafted two action plans, namely language education and language equipment. In addition, together with the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia, we have promoted reading habits and this is also planned in the future, namely to encourage reading of different age groups. In the context of the 2014-20 financial perspective for the drawing-up of European grants, the Ministry has also prepared a project on Fundamental Language Resources to raise literacy levels. The problem is that we would need 10 million euros for this project, and it appears that we will only get 2 million because we are not the bearers of any priority investment and not this priority investment. At the same time, the Ministry has also approached organisational changes within the Ministry itself, which will help to better link efforts in the field of books, libraries and Slovenian language. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. In particular, I would define an area relating to changes in the curriculum. We believe that in the context of the new content we could highlight this literacy. The proposed working group will also include new methods to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u99	Ms Andreja Katič, SD, will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u100	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! And a nice greeting to the well-respected ministerial assembly! Dear Minister of Infrastructure, my question also concerns, as before, my colleague, the course of bridge reconstruction, in particular the 15 most critical ones defined as such by the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. You have already answered the question in part, but I am more specifically interested in the following. In January last year, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia announced a call for the rehabilitation of the two most critical bridges, the Socka bridge between Arja village and Velenje, and the Prestrák bridge between Postojna and Pivka. The deadline for completion of the remedial works on the bridge located on the road between Arja village and Velenje was 180 days. As is known, it is a road connecting the entire Koroška and Shaleska Valley to the highway network or to the rest of Slovenia. At this section, it was envisaged that, by the beginning of the journey, part of the traffic would be carried out alternately in a one-way manner, limiting the total permissible mass to more than 30 tonnes for goods vehicles without trailers. It was also envisaged that the section would be closed in time and that the operation would be regulated. In fact, transport took place on a one-way basis from 25 January to 26 June last year. During this time, traffic was arranged, after which traffic was carried out simultaneously in both directions for a period of time, and from 20 November to today, the traffic was redesigned on a one-way basis. Why so, it is not clear. The fact is that the Socka bridge between Arya village and Velenje is among the most critical objects requiring urgent rehabilitation. We know that on this road towards Velenj and Koroška, about 20,000 vehicles drive daily, which is a huge burden for the existing road and all infrastructure facilities on it. And to remember, we still have the biggest Slovenian exporter Gorenje in Velenj. Almost every minute he goes from Gorenje or into it one truck. At the time of the publication of the invitation to tender, it was ensured that the renewal would be completed within 180 days and that today, that is to say, one year later, the turnover would take place on a one-way basis. So the promise was, unfortunately, broken. Minister, at the time of adoption of the rebalancing for last year, you stated that funds were provided for the most urgent renovations of road infrastructure. So I ask you: If the funds were provided for the most urgent renovations, why is it delayed by the anticipated dynamics of the reconstruction works? Until when can we expect the completion of reconstruction works on the Sock Bridge and other infrastructure facilities listed above 15 roads? When, on schedule, is there going to be a smooth two-way traffic on individual sections of the road from that list? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u101	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, honourable Member Andrej Katič, for the question raised. Indeed, in 2014 a total of 20 restrictions were imposed on main and regional roads due to lack of capacity. With the second budget rebalancing for 2014, which was adopted at the end of last year, resources were provided for the continuation of works on three crossing sites from this list of limited bearing facilities, namely the Socka Bridge, the Beerka Pass and the Trojans. However, other works are not carried out because there are currently no funds available. If I present the activities on these three facilities in more detail now. So, on the bridge over Socka near Škrlin Castle there were problems due to the very bad weather in last year, as there is a need to build a new 80m wall, which is based on the stream itself. In February, a protective fence will be installed, other works such as the construction of the wing wall, the structure of the intersection, the reconstruction of the road will be carried out by the end of the month of May this year. In the meantime, however, individual phases, depending on needs, will still require one-way traffic closures. With regard to the bridge across the Pivka in Prestrance, I can tell you that it's basically over. The load limit has been removed and the work in the stream itself has to be completed, but it will be carried out as soon as the water from the stream has dried up. There was already a compulsory road and other stages of bridge reconstruction at bridge crossings in Trojan, so that traffic essentially takes place in the direction of Ljubljana along the bypass road and towards Maribor in the middle of the bridge. It is still necessary to complete the reinforcement of the foundations, complete the entire translation structure, reconstruct the vehicle itself, arrange the fence, transport equipment and signalling. However, the contract deadline for completion is August of this year. The works at this facility must also be coordinated with the implementation of the reconstructions themselves on the tunnels of the motorway, as the operations over this facility are also taking place during this time. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u103	Request for complete response. Mrs. Andreja Katich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. If I can only shed more light on the problem of the Sock Bridge, given that I drive there every day. At the end of the previous year, this recovery was essentially over, so that two-way traffic could be reintroduced. However, it is true that this protective fence should be installed. Now I'm asking: Will you order them to hurry up a little bit? The weather was such that it would allow such works to happen for a month. Now, indeed, at the end of the week, we are expecting snow, and I hope that there will be no excuse for us to carry the work back to March. Once again, 20,000 vehicles drive daily across this bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u105	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u106	I can give you my word that I will commit myself to speeding things up as quickly as possible – given that the funds, as I say, are now provided for this facility. I'm counting on it to be over sooner than in May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u107	Mr Marijan Pojbič, SDS, will raise the question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. However, they are both justified in percentage, so at the end of the question I ask him whether he wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. President! The civil initiative of Apache, which was organised to help resolve the issue of double taxation or payment of income differences in Slovenia, which affects cross-border labour migrants – the government has done nothing in this area. Since there is no movement of recruitment or solution for the benefit of migrant workers, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party estimate that this issue is becoming a truly extremely problematic issue to which an appropriate answer needs to be addressed. The fact is that those people or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have sought work abroad have not done so because they want to work abroad, but to save their basic existence and their families and at the same time to save their dignity. It is therefore perfectly logical and normal that these people, i.e. labour migrants, are employed outside our borders, very disappointed and very angry at a country that has not been able to provide work in its own country and has not been able to ensure after the end of the guaranteed right; this is to ensure a basic existence of life. Now it also requires them to pay the difference of tax or income to their own country of Slovenia as a result of more favourable taxation in the country where they work. And even though most of their earned money, hard-earned abroad, is spent in Slovenia. This is, in my opinion and according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's assessment, unacceptable and absolutely unfair. I am therefore absolutely convinced that this issue must be given priority and found appropriate solutions, which must be long-term, internationally comparable and definitive. I therefore ask the Minister for Finance of Dusan Moror and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Karl Viktor Erjavac: What will you do to settle this issue in a way that will satisfy migrant workers with a solution? And quite concretely: What are the solutions that will ensure a long-term international comparable solution to this unacceptable situation? When can we count on such solutions at the latest? Of course, I expect the Minister to be answered orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you. I will place this issue at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Now, Mr Ivan Škodnik, SMC, will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! I have a question for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. I ask, Madam Minister: Do you believe that the current system of allocation of funds for the implementation of public works programmes is sufficiently transparent and fair? Does it allow equal opportunities for all interested tenderers? What are the responses of applicants or tenderers to the selection criteria? Do you intend to change them in the future? I believe that the quality of public works programmes should also be one of the criteria and not just the time of supply. We all know that public works mean survival to many people, so I welcome the decision of the Government of 9. 1. 2015 on the allocation of an additional EUR 8 million for the public works programme in 2015. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight the issue of how to choose offers for the implementation of public works programmes. In the case of a public invitation to public works carried out by the Employment Office, I find the following problematic. The order for the selection of tenders shall be based on the time of the submission of tenders. In my view, the timing of the role cannot be decisive, and the content and needs must also be looked at. If it's an important time, then everyone should make offers for public work on their own, and all of a sudden they could only make one offer and then they should go back in line. That way, in my opinion, I'd be honest with everyone. The current system, for example, allows someone, when we have three valleys, Mežiška, Thinkinjska, Dravska, along the valley, to pick up public works providers' offers, to take them to Velenje, to sleep a few hours earlier in order to start working day, is the first in line and surrender, say, 100, 150 offers, which means that no one in line can obtain funds for the implementation of the public works programme, because these first or first few providers have burned all available financial resources. So this rule that anyone who comes sooner, first of all, cannot be the criteria for choosing an offer, especially if someone is allowed to make more offers at the same time for himself and for others. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u111	Answers Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities for Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u112	Dear Member, thank you for asking. This issue is even more topical after a public call for public works was closed on 10 January for this year. As you know, there was a lot of discussion about this in the government. At this point, the public call was then extended, so this year we distributed 33.6 million. If we include the social entrepreneurship programme and what is being done — the acorn — we will spend €35.4 million for public works this year. It is clear, however, that these issues, which you are addressing, are so much more topical because we received 3 000 543 public works offers in 2015, so 29 tenderers withdrew from the offer and 2 000 578 were selected at the end and 936 were rejected. All public works will include about 6,000 400 people on the basis of the money available. Because you have highlighted the way it is allocated and that it is only an important time – of course it is not. The selection of public works shall be carried out on the basis of Article 47 of the Labour Market Regulation Act, which states that "it shall be carried out with a public invitation to tender under the rules governing the implementation of the budget". The Labour Market Regulation Act provides for the publication of an invitation on the website of the contractor of active employment policy measures, this is the Employment Office, and must contain all the content expressly mentioned by law, the subject of a public invitation and other matters. In accordance with the provisions of the law of the expert commission, the tenders submitted shall be dealt with in accordance with the order in which they are made available to the use of funds. The contractor of active employment policy measures, i.e. the Office, shall accept the offer of that provider which fulfils all the conditions and criteria required and whose offer corresponds to the needs of the unemployed in their area of operation. More specifically, the rules are laid down by the Regulation on the Origin and Co-financing of Public Works, which was published in the Official Journal. 96/2013. This further provides that only those public works programmes which are in accordance with the catalogue of public works programmes and are published on the website can be allocated to quotas by departmental services, which are determined on the basis of the latest official data of the Statistical Office and given the state of long-term unemployment. However, the office distributes to the district services according to the state of unemployment, according to the proportion of the long-term unemployment quota allocated to them. However, it is important — and this may be highlighted too often — that public interest must be shown for all public works programmes. How the existence of a public interest is exercised, this interest must be guaranteed by the contracting authority. [[…]] In most cases they are contracting authorities or municipalities, or, for example, competent ministries, or an appropriate professional organisation, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. The invitation was also made in 2015 in accordance with all the provisions of the law and regulation and all those offers made by operators fulfilling the conditions and submitting a public works programme corresponding to the catalogue may be determined. And only if there are more and at the same time, then the time criterion is counted. It was very clear here on the invitation to tender that those tenders which will be submitted via mail would all be taken equally to be considered at 8.00 p.m., precisely because different regional mail lifts differently and from this point of view could then result in more unequal treatment if it was important when someone picks up the mail which the district picks up at their post office only these applications arrived. It was therefore very clear in the call itself. This is the same every year, but of course this year, because there was a much greater interest than the money provided, regardless of the fact that we increased it, there was also more bad will.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u113	So there is a requirement to supplement the reply by Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u114	I'd like to thank you for your answer, but I'd like to ask if you can answer that in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u115	Now asked Mrs Nada Brinovšek, SDS, Minister of Health Maria Milojko Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greeting to everyone here at the hall! We are known to go to the doctor on average every seven times a year, compared with the Germans who only go four times a year. We also have 30% fewer doctors per population, such as the European average. However, I am convinced that these visits would be even more so if it were not for our citizens and we all served alternative treatments, including acupuncture and homeopathy. According to the data, more and more Slovenians are interested in and treated with alternative methods. There has also been a lot of talk and debate and coordination in recent times, both between the professional circles and the medical chambers. What's the problem? In all EU Member States except Slovenia, doctors as healthcare professionals can treat with homeopathy and prescribe homeopathic medicines. Approximately 40% of French and nearly 75% of German doctors occasionally prescribe homeopathic medicines to their patients. Public and private insurance companies in some countries also cover the costs of homeopathic medicines – for example Belgium, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Italy, Luxembourg, Germany and so on. In most medical schools homeopathy is also a choice subject – Austria, Bulgaria, France, the Netherlands, Spain, the United Kingdom. Therefore, these treatment methods in these EU Member States are part of official medicine. Slovenia, however, is the only country in the European Union where a doctor with a degree in medical school is called a doctor of medicine, with acquired knowledge from homeopathy and a license under the Health Act, cannot treat and prescribe homeopathic medicines. Le-ta's not part of official medicine. For that reason, I am interested in: What is your view that Slovenia is approaching all other European countries in the field of homeopathy? Will you allow the general public to discuss this? Here I have in mind an open dialogue between the Ministry, the Chamber, classical doctors, healers and interested public. Do you have any idea how wide you're going to open the door to this industry? Are you planning to amend the necessary legislation? Are you planning a change in health insurance in the sense that in Slovenia, at least part of the cost of homeopathic treatment would be covered by a health insurance company?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u117	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. Hello again, all of you! It is true that I can agree with the honourable Member that Slovenia is the only country in the European Union at this time, where the actual doctor involved in homeopathy prescribes homeopathic medicines, in accordance with the law, loses his license. This is why we have been working at the Ministry of Health for a long time for doctors in Slovenia to carry out medical activities, but unfortunately, the Ministry has always encountered resistance and disapproval of professions. I must say that all this time we have been working through our representatives also the Medical Chamber of Slovenia to somehow convince or establish a dialogue of professions to agree with each other, and so in fact the end of last year in December was decided after quite a heated discussion at the Assembly of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia that doctors in Slovenia will also be able to carry out medical services as well as homeopathic activities without losing their licenses. At the Ministry, we welcome and support this decision of the profession, which is why we will follow and also amend the relevant legislation, which will, inter alia, determine the conditions and manner in which homeopathic activities are carried out. Because we need to know that homeopathy is a medicinal activity that can be carried out by doctors after amending legislation without their license being revoked. We also stress that the Ministry, irrespective of the decision of the Medical Chamber, also approaches the preparation of changes in the field of medicine. This area will be regulated in a way that is comparable to practice and regulation through content sets, as it is regulated in other European countries. Finally, allow me to explain that medicine, where homeopathy is also included, under the Health Care Act, is an activity carried out by physicians to improve the health of the user of services. Homeopathy is defined as a medical system and not as a medical treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u119	Request for complete response. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thanks again. I'm not sure I've heard that before. I asked two more questions. Given that practice is also in all other European countries, that insurance companies and various agencies cover part of the costs of this treatment, I am also interested in: Is that what you are thinking? And: Are you planning, or do you know, what will be the difference if, in the sense that homeopathy will also be part of a regular study, as in some European countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u121	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you for the supplementary question. As far as the study is concerned, this is mainly a professional decision, whether it will also be introduced into a regular course in a medical study or a medical university. In this part, we will leave the profession to have its dialogue and to make appropriate solutions on this basis. Also, all these changes in the public debate, where it will be possible for both sides and professions to give their word and then decide what will be the most appropriate solution for Slovenia. The same applies to whether the law will give the possibility that these products or that they will be treated with homeopathy will also be partially covered by compulsory health insurance. However, it will be possible, and these proposals will also be made to insurance companies that market voluntary health insurance, so that they can also establish their products for these patients and each individual will be able to make a voluntary insurance policy if he chooses to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u123	Now the question will be raised by Miha Kordiš, the United Left, to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is excusedly absent, so I ask him whether he requires a written answer or insists on oral.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Prime Minister Miro Cerar interviewed RTV on 12. 1. 2015, and I will quote: "We will strive to promote maximum, good corporate governance. So it'll be ethical to be incorruptible and so on. This also means that we want companies that will remain state-owned to be managed. Not that there's going to be some kind of power station over some hunters, some lobbyists, and so on." It is clear from these and similar statements made by Dr Cerar and by the Secretary of State, Mr Dragoj, that there is still an irregularity or even damage to the property of citizens and citizens. That is why I am referring to the question of: What kind of companies is there an irregularity? What kind of irregularities are we talking about? What measures are you or will you take for ethical and non-controversial management? Since the Minister is not present today and I have little time available, allow me to comment on or highlight the context of this issue. I don't think that the express concern that my question is being addressed is being said about some hunters, mystic, hidden hunters. This concern stems from the fear that all of these rational arguments for privatisation have gone down in dust, because they do not drink much water. Further, people have overlooked, opposition to privatisation is gaining ground. People know damn well that privatisation means abolishing jobs, that it means eliminating the development potentials of this country and the government is in a panic before that, especially the President of the Government, who, at such an opportunity, runs into the mysticism of some of the hunters in the background. This is also confirmed by today's debate; in one of the answers to the question on privatisation today, Miro Cerar said again that we have made no legal commitment to carry out the privatisation exercise. That's not true. We have repeatedly asked him to submit any documents, if he has any on the subject, but since he has not done so, I can say quite rightly that he is aware that we have not made any legal commitments and that he has lied a little. I repeat, the Prime Minister lied a little. He lied to this national assembly, lied in the face of citizens and citizens, only to support his political agenda, which is to support privatisation, to push privatisation forward at all costs, costs, citizens' shoulders and citizens, in order to satisfy the appetites of his bosses in Berlin, Brussels and Washington. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u125	The answer will be given in writing. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will now ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. You will tell dean jedan, who is also absent, whether you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u126	It's written. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministerial assembly! My question will concern the management of state forests. As we know, in Slovenia we have 80% of the forests that are privately owned and 20% of them are state owned. We cannot be most proud of the way we have managed this great wealth that Slovenia has conquered in the past. These state forests were managed by concessionaires who employ from about a thousand 300 to a thousand 500 people. We all know that in the following year, the concession will expire for all these concessionaires. My question to the Minister concerns the following: What will be the fate of these concessionaires in the future? Above all: What will be the future management of state forests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you. The answer will be given in writing. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u128	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice-President! My question concerns the establishment of base stations along railway lines, as almost weekly civil initiatives, citizens and citizens of a large number of Slovenian municipalities are turning to Members and Members of the National Assembly, and therefore more and more are bitter citizens and citizens because of the so-called base stations. So what's this all about? I personally fully understand the need to set up so-called base stations; therefore, that the existing analogue communication system on the railway network is replaced by a global mobile radio system and the so-called GSM-R system should, inter alia, increase the security and infrastructure of capacity, and there would be fewer train disruptions and delays. But despite the full understanding of the whole story, the question is why base stations are often placed in the center of the village and also in the immediate vicinity of kindergartens, primary schools. I come from two cases — from where I was elected — logically. This is an example of the village of Cesta in the Vipavska Valley, where it is planned that the base station be placed in the center of the village, and the second example is the village of Štanjel, which you all know very well, is our cultural heritage. Natives from both villages tell me that the installation of base stations began practically without consent. These are towers, 30 meters high, and certainly locals say – and I also assume – that this base station has harmful environmental consequences, not least for primary school children, but also for those of our youngest children who attend kindergarten. So my question, Mr. Minister, is first of all about the village of Road. I want to know: What is the Ministry planning in the coming months? For now this building is not built, this tower is not built, the thing stands still, and some final solution is not yet. And also, what are the further procedures for this conversation, in fact with the locals, with civil initiatives, because I believe we need base stations, but not least, the locals must give their consent, because I doubt that you would agree that the base station would be set 50 metres away from the primary school that your child or our children attends. I want to know: How will you establish this dialogue between the Ministry and citizens and citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, thank you for this question. The GSM-R system is a communication system for the management, management of rail signalling. This system shall be built in accordance with the legislation governing the execution of maintenance works for public benefit and in accordance with municipal spatial acts in parts relating to the maintenance of railway infrastructure. While public inclusion is not envisaged for maintenance works, communication was carried out in the preparation and implementation of this project with all municipalities where work was envisaged. However, I can agree with you here, and probably most of the public, that this communication was too modest or that its significance was probably underestimated, especially in view of the fact that there was a greater response by both the municipalities and the public concerned in fact only in the stage of implementation of the works. Since then, we have supplemented previous information with numerous presentations, meetings, written explanations and documentation published on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure. In addition, we are looking at all initiatives and proposals concerning the location of base stations and we are trying to harmonise them as much as possible if technical options allow. Active coordination with municipalities and civil initiatives is also under way with regard to alternative locations, which have been established in locations that are highly problematic. With regard to this location mentioned here, it is said that in the local community of the Road in Ajdovščina, I can say that an alternative location is currently being sought while meeting the above conditions and the condition of appropriate radio coverage with a signal on the railway track itself. Currently, some of the priority locations are in the control of the radio planner and, immediately after processing, alternative locations of the Road will also be sent for processing, such as proposals that will be outside the settlement. In short, they are looking for possible locations outside the area itself. Once the results of these checks have been obtained, the investor will inform the Local Community of the Road of possible alternative locations, as we have done in previous similar cases. Thus, the information will continue to follow when it is determined where these alternative locations can be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Gardener requires a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u132	A few months ago, if I'm not mistaken, I wrote you about the problem. All these base stations in the village of Stanjel, not because I am staying next to this village, but mainly for two reasons; because this base station is really close to the primary school. Now there are two alternatives, namely that the base station would be set 100 metres away from the primary school, and the current proposal is only 30 meters away. I'm not going to judge whether the base station is damaging or not, because I don't know about it, but I wouldn't be happy if my kid went to the elementary school 30 meters away from some 30-foot tower. And secondly, Stanjel is a cultural historical village that has an incredibly beautiful wall and this tower would be set directly, even after a new proposal, directly under this village, which is under Unesco's protection. Now you can imagine a tourist from Italy or wherever he comes to look at this cultural sight, but first he sees this large tower — not the castle, the tower! So, what I'm saying is that in this case, when they oppose the establishment of a base station, they're absolutely right, because they're responsible for their ancestors and for their cultural heritage. In this case, also for the sake of maintaining Slovenian culture and identity, I ask you to find the best possible solution. I believe that we also need a base station in Stanjel and that the infrastructure needs to move forward, but keep it in touch with our surroundings. That is why I am asking a specific question: How do the procedures apply in the case of this base station, and is the solution possible after all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you. The Minister of Infrastructure will complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you. With regard to these base stations, I would like to explain the following. With regard to the very fear of radiation, these antennas are very focused on the beam, in short, the evil radiates in the direction of the railway infrastructure itself, while the lateral radiation is very limited and I will say these harmful effects in the direction beyond the railway infrastructure itself. I understand, however, and we have also recognised this effect, and this effect of these base stations has been greatly underestimated in the study of these sites – that they have a very disruptive effect on their very presence in space. In short, they don't fit into some village core. I also saw that photomontage of the building at the village of Stinjel, where, I'll say, just the look when it opens up at you, it hides that tower. We have recognized this problem and are looking for locations not only taking into account the safety of radiation, but also this less disturbing impact on the environment where these base stations are needed. In short, we also want to reach this compromise. As I know, in the village of Steinjel this alternative location is being sought, but I do not know how to tell you now how concrete; whether they have already reached an agreement or not, but as we have assured by designers, planners and performers that in all these cases, where this visual aspect has been underestimated, these things are now being regulated in the search for these compromise solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of the Interior of the Magi. The spring Györkös Žnidar and the Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u136	Minister! Before the day, the public was informed of threats to journalists of Democracy and Reporter who appeared on the social network Facebook. A stranger with a profile of the Matija Treasurer or a picture of Mati Cat, which we can place alongside the great Stalin executioner Berija, publicly threatened journalists with a repeat of the Parisian massacre; he threatened to put Blažić on a stake. The call was added by a person under Janja Burger's profile. A few days later, the car was wrecked by a journalist named Financi Lipnik. The housing associations strongly condemned the threats and called for appropriate procedures to be initiated. Such threats and attacks, which are increasing in Slovenia, the justice system never detects, so the concern is even greater. In so doing, let me just remind you of the attempted murder of journalist Mir Petk, who remains unexplained today. At these events is the worrying response of the Sunday Diary that after the events in Paris there are also various media fans who are said to be at risk. A response that literally calls for an increase in threats, but which can grow into much more. In accordance with the Penal Code, Article 297 states that public promotion or dissemination of hatred, violence or intolerance shall be punishable by imprisonment for up to two years. If the act is committed by threats to safety, damage to other things, the perpetrator shall be punished for up to three years. Therefore, as responsible and responsible ministers, I ask you: What measures have you taken to protect the freedom of the media in the Constitution? The question raised is all the more topical, as according to some publicly available data, law enforcement authorities seem to be looking in particular for excuses to avoid prosecution and detection of a crime. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you. The Minister of the Interior, Mag, will first answer. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, your question concerns a specific example of the threat to journalists of the Journal Reporter and Democracy. As soon as it was detected, the police tried to protect the content at issue on Facebook, but, as we know, the user withdrew this profile about half an hour after the publication and was unable to protect it. The content of the publication is due to the suspicion of criminal service on 9. 1. 2015 was informed by the District District Attorney of the District Attorney of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana. Following a presentation, the prosecutor explained to the police that, in the specific case, no elements of the criminal offence under article 297 mentioned, namely public promotion of hatred, violence or intolerance, have been given in relation to all the legal opinions and views of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana. However, the prosecutor further stated that legal signs of a criminal offence could be presented under Article 135, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code, where the prosecution of the perpetrator would commence in a private action, in the harm of one of the journalists mentioned in the record, of course, assuming that all the legal conditions were met. With observations or with the possibility of prosecution in respect of this crime, it shall be made at 9 a.m. 1. At 3:30 p.m., a journalist was also introduced. He was also alerted to self-protection and to the immediate notification of the police in the event of a threat to him or anyone else. You also mentioned an event related to the journalist of the Finance Officer, which the police considered a criminal offence in violation of foreign affairs under article 220 of the Penal Code. The data collected so far do not indicate that the event would have been done for the sake of the journalist's work, but the police continue to collect notices in this direction as well as with the aim of tracking down the perpetrator. In the rest, I believe that I will be complemented by my colleague, Minister Klemenčič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you. The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent has the floor. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Member, my addition is relatively short. We asked for an explanation from the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, which informed us that there are currently two issues in the study from last week; namely, a police report in a specific case and a motion for prosecution. They'll decide that, I suppose, within a reasonable time. First of all, I would sincerely like to join in condemning any threats at all when it comes to threats against the media, and here we must have the same stick, whether we like any medium or not. There's got to be zero tolerance here. I can also add that you will be expected to receive MEPs and Members within 2 months of the inter-resortary coordination on the table, as well as the amendment of the Penal Code, which will, among other things, deal with the crime of threat, which is now primarily pursued by a private action, which is problematic in such cases, as in – by the way – problematic in cases of family violence. We intend to change that now. I would end by adding that, as far as I was able to get the case, it is not possible to say at this point that the system did not respond, that the police or the prosecution did not respond. There were certainly no complaints rejected, but they opted for a different qualification of an act that was not definitive. But it's a matter of the prosecution's judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert requires a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you both for the answer; for the second much more exhausted than the first, especially because we are talking about two profiles, as I said before, about one so-called Matija Cat and the other – Burger. All you said to me was that one of the profiles was removed. In doing so, let me stress that it would be very irresponsible of all of us to be concerned about the threats just because there was a massacre in Paris. This can only be an additional but not the only reason. The relation to such threats, that we are too often indifferent to these problems, is also in some ways not only indifferent, I can say biased. I'll tell you. Remember the threats to the then President of the Government, Janez Janša, who was threatened by a police officer in the post of Assistant Chief of Police, i.e. an armed person, but the court ruled that there was no crime. In the face of threats to another Prime Minister, however, the decision was completely different. It is said that there is a clear message that some in this country can be threatened without consequences, others not. So once again, I ask you: What will we do in particular in the country, so that the threats will somehow be considered unacceptable and that they can only lead to further steps? That should worry us more than anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you. The Minister of the Interior will give an additional reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u144	Here I would only tie myself up and add that there is no way that the authorities could agree that there was no right response, given that in a particular case – as already pointed out by colleague Klemenčič – the authorities have responded appropriately and – as he said – the matter is not yet complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Since we obviously do not understand each other again, I propose that we hold a public debate on this, at least as regards the Minister of the Interior's answers. I'm talking about that you only mentioned one of the profiles that is problematic, and that I didn't use the words anywhere, that there was no response in the public, but there's a known evidence that there were some movements, there's a real responsibility from one to the other. You can read that, and your response, I didn't see any dementia about it. Thus, I believe that such a debate was also necessary in order to completely eradicate such threats and such behaviours in our society.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27 January 2015 in the framework of the votes. Now, Mr Tomaž Gantar will raise the question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is absent, and to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question is also related to privatisation, in a slightly different way. The fact is, it's been sold to Telekom, which has been a lot of talk lately. The same package also provides for the sale of Soline d. o. o. This is an undertaking which has a valid concession until 2023 for the management of the Sečovlje Solina Landscape Park and for the production of salt. This is the company through which this landscape park has been renovated in recent years, partly with millions of budget resources, and even more with European funds through the LIFE project. I think there is some legitimate concern here about the future of the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park, given that this company will obviously be sold if Telekom is sold. The questions, of course, relate to this fate of the landscape park. We also need to know that efforts are under way to ensure that this landscape park is protected by UNESCO. A few days ago, the construction inspection closed access to the landscape park; where trucks could have driven yesterday, today it is no longer allowed to walk across. It would be difficult for anyone to convince me that the accident on the one hand is the sale of Telekom to these companies and, on the other hand, the sudden disproportionate measure of blocking access to this landscape park and causing direct damage to the company that is also being sold. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Where are the reasons given that Soline d.o.o. was warned to be sold together with Telekom? Is it still possible to take a step back here so that this company can be exempted from the sale of Telekom — given that it has no direct connection with the activity that is given into other hands? Where does the Ministry of the Environment see the possibility of protecting against the collapse of this natural park? We know that the very amendment of the concession contract is an extremely complex procedure, not only to withdraw the concession if this new owner would act contrary to the interests or protection of this landscape park. I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you. Thank you for your word. Honourable Member Tomaž Gantar, as already mentioned in the question, has been introduced for the area of the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park by the Regulation on the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park, the Decree on the proclamation of the Museum of Solinary as a cultural monument of State importance and the work relating to cultural heritage, including the Municipal Decree on the proclamation of the Regional Park of Sečovlje Slina. All these three regulations lay down binding protection regimes and rules of conduct for the protection of natural and cultural heritage. The management of the landscape park is subject to the Regulation on concessions for the use of the natural value of Sečovlje salt and the concession for the management of the Sečovlje salt Landscape Park. On the basis of these rules, a concessionaire has been selected, namely Soline d. o. o., by which the Government has concluded a concession contract by virtue of the fact that this concession contract is actually in three parts. It is a management of the landscape park, then a concession to acquire, to use salt and a third concession, which speaks of the public service being organised within this company, also responsible for the maintenance and restoration of watercourses in this part of Slovenia. Thus, in principle, in principle, irrespective of any change in ownership, the concessionaire is obliged to respect all the provisions of those provisions and to continue to implement the management plans of the park. It is true, however, that since the conclusion of these concession contracts, much has changed to date, and the Ministry of Environment and Space has been undergoing a process with which these concession contracts would have been updated, refreshed and written in terms of regulations. It is true, however, that we continue this process in the future. However, the most recent fact is that the company is now in some way also addressing the country with an action, so of course the complexity is even greater. Last August, the Ministry addressed letters to MF and MGRT and also to SDH on the 10th month, proposing that Soline be excluded from Telekom's sales company because we believe that the open issue from Soline's concession relationship with the State must be resolved as long as the company is owned by the State. It is necessary to update the concession contract in advance, to define the conditions of operation of Soline as a concessionaire in the future more clearly, and in this regard to define the conditions that will also allow for the provision of public interest in the protection of natural values and cultural heritage in the Sečovlje salts, which is a constitutional obligation. The obligation of protection and preservation also stems from a ratified international convention which ranks Sečovlje salt among the wetlands of international importance, but I agree with you that it will probably be necessary to cut not only because of this case but also many others in legislation in the way that concession is withdrawn, because these parks, these natural values, are extremely vulnerable in the event that they are not managed as prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will raise the question to the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and the cohesion of Mrs Alenka Smercolj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I hope that my question today will also be on your pleasure to be able to serve with some good news, Madam Minister, as it was last time. In fact, in Slovenia any household could already have, it would be time to have healthy drinking water. Similarly, the State has promised the European Union that by the end of 2017 all waste water will be purified, dumped. I'm afraid that if that doesn't happen, and I'm sure it won't, we'll get the punishment, just like the neighbouring country, and this punishment will, of course, be passed on to the users, that's what it's going to mean to the checkers, because then people will pay this penalty. To this end, 11 cohesion projects are worth over 200 million. The projects are in the area of 34 municipalities, which comprise about a third of the total population in Slovenia. The municipalities have spent more than €7 million to prepare these projects, have selected contractors who have been paying a bank guarantee for a year, extend the bank guarantee and are waiting for these projects to begin. In the event that this will not be the case, the municipalities will have to pay additional fines to these contractors because they will terminate the contracts. The operational programme is adopted in the field of cohesion, it is now up to the State of Slovenia or the Ministry to adopt a strategy or regulation and rules. My question is, Madam Minister: How far are you? In my previous question, I have also called on this to involve investors in the preparation of projects, in changes, whatever, in view of the objectives of the new financial perspective, in order to reach decisions as soon as possible when the regulation and rules are adopted at the country level. So my question is: When can these decisions be expected, and what will be the percentage of co-financing? Will it be as promised when the projects were being prepared that is 85% of the eligible costs?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smercolj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u154	Dear Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Lah! The government is for the 11 cohesion projects we are talking about 34 municipalities 6. 11. 2014 adopted a decision saying two things. The first is that these projects will be given priority and the second part that they have to meet the conditions of the new financial perspective. What has really happened so far? Really, 16. 12. 2014 the European Commission has finally confirmed the operational programme, which is the basis for pumping. Within three months, Member States must establish a system for the implementation of cohesion policy and also set up an implementation structure. We are working intensively in the SVRC on the regulation, and next week the regulation goes into cross-cutting coordination. We have indeed taken great steps here, so we anticipate that the regulation will be adopted at the government's meeting in early March. In mid-March, we also intend to set up the required monitoring committee. The Monitoring Committee is the body envisaged by the Partnership Agreement, which must be set in order to set the criteria and that, in fact, the implementation of all projects can then be initiated. We have to wait until then for these projects. Not only do we have to wait now, because some of us are already talking a lot, but the criteria have to be confirmed before you can officially begin any procedure. This is how we can monitor intensively at this point. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we also had quite a few meetings with them. The aim of all of us is to bring all of these municipalities as close as possible and to enable the decision to be taken as soon as possible. But we have to wait absolutely until this date. I would just like to point out that, in addition to the new role and instructions that will be adopted at the latest in early March, these new roles will have to be relatively very similar to those existing, so that we believe that the congregations will be able to do so relatively quickly. What they will certainly have to do is that they will have to meet the mandatory condition, which is in the new perspective, which is to carry out a prior environmental impact assessment procedure. This procedure is demanding and this procedure is carried out in accordance with the Regulation by Arso, the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. As soon as these conditions are met, we can also begin to issue decisions. I believe that everything we have said here before you in the National Assembly or on all the committees that actual decisions can be made before summer. And there's something else. And co-financing later.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u155	Member Zvonko Lah wants to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. I hope I get another piece. In the meantime, since the previous question of the Member States, we have also had the opportunity to listen to the European Commissioner from this area, who praised the cooperation and your work. I hope it's true. I am also of the opinion that you have taken a very large step forward, of course also very important for the country, so that these funds will be exhausted by the end of this year. However, when I spoke to some investors who were supposed to be involved in making this change happen in time, there was no sense of any accelerated cooperation at that time. That's why I'm worried. I'm also worried about this because you said that the PSC should be carried out. And that, as far as I know, sometimes took two years. I hope it won't be too soon now. And I want to know: Would the congregations be able to begin this procedure now, or should they wait for both the regulation and the rules? This would buy us time, because what hands they have there, with the neighbouring minister, I hope that it will go quickly, as has been the practice so far, it could take years. That's why I want to know: Is it really possible to carry out this procedure quickly? So wait, Madam Minister, my next question is addressed [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the environment and space, because this is likely to be very topical. [[…]] I'm afraid this will take too long.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you. The answer will be complemented by the Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smercolj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u158	Before that, I ran out of time for a second part of the answer, as far as project co-financing is concerned. In fact, I can say that it has already been decided that for these projects in the operational programme, a priority axis of six, which includes these projects, will maintain the way in which the co-financing rate is calculated through the calculation of the financial gap. This means that they will be practically treated as if they were executed under this financial perspective. That's how we agreed on this part and accepted it. Everything else – environmental assessment I must say that if I were on one of these projects, I would probably wait first for the criteria, that we would meet everything, make a role, find out on the intermediate body of the authorities that were already ready there that it was actually unlocked, and probably go to a later assessment, so that no additional costs would be incurred if anything went wrong in any way. [[…]] But this is probably more of a question for the Minister of Environment and Space. All I know is that if I were an investor, I'd probably want to have 100% first, that I have everything in my hands before I go to any extra expense. I believe, however, that we and our colleagues from the Ministry of Environment and Space have already sat twice in January on this very topic. The interest in both our service and this competent ministry is that we really help these projects and get them into implementation as soon as possible. It's a wish of all. We have a common interest here. When the interest is shared, I believe that the pressure on the ARSO will also go in the same light. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u160	I'm still scared. This is your suggestion that the investor also waits for the rules to determine the role. I mean, if investors have already spent so much money that it took 7 million to prepare projects and that operators are paying a bank guarantee and extending, which is a huge cost, investors can no longer afford to terminate these contracts, because they still have to pay for it, even if you terminate the contract. In my opinion, all investors would immediately go into this process of report affecting the environment if they had all the points of reference that I think they have; because Minister Židan is already in the previous mandate, because he was under his department, he said that the Ministry had done everything in support of these projects from a technical point of view that everything is now in the hands of that work or management body, not the intermediate body. In my view, the conditions for producing the environmental impact report are given and investors should be encouraged to go to this report as soon as possible to obtain a decision. In your opinion, however, this report can be carried out by the end of this year or even more if it is not significantly accelerated by these procedures. This means that there will be another million costs at the expense of bank guarantees. The question is whether the contractors will last that long. The municipalities have everything in the budgets, including the funds reserved for these projects, so that I think these reports should be simplified as much as possible and that decisions should be accelerated as soon as possible. It would be best if all the criteria and applications are given to you that within a few weeks the decision and all the conditions are met. Because otherwise we may lose another construction season because in the autumn we start building, we lose almost a year because the preparation of projects or the start of construction works, the takeover of the construction site and all, even takes some time because these are big projects. It would be a shame not to draw as much of these cohesion funds as possible [[sign for the end of the debate]] in 2015, from a new financial perspective, because I think it will be good for every government, as well as this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you. This was not a requirement for a discussion of the answer to be held at the next meeting. Now it's dr. Franc Trček asked the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! Slovenia is one of the European countries with the highest share of private ownership of dwellings. Perhaps someone would even consider how this indicator points to a high living and living quality in our society, but that is not the case. The number of elderly people under or at the edge of the poverty threshold who are unable to pay basic municipal costs is increasing, let alone maintain or even rebuild apartments. On the opposite side of the age cohorts are young people for whom to solve the housing issue for most of them is science fiction. In the meantime, the middle generation is over-indebted by housing loans, often also in the form of a toxic bank product that hears in the name of a loan in Swiss francs. The homes of the Republic Fund have been poorly built and are often almost uninhabitable after a few years. At the same time in Slovenia we have about 120 000 empty apartments and poorly arranged, very poorly regulated area of rental. We are still waiting for the National Housing Programme with this clairvoyant situation in the area of housing policy, even though it should have been adopted six years ago. At the same time, in the new housing world — an advisory body to deal with these pressing problems — there are no leading experts and experts in the field of housing policies and even representatives of the people with one honorable no. In view of all the above, it is a problem that this country has never literally considered properly, let alone developed, or acted on. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: How will you deal with the obvious priority area of the housing policy of the Republic of Slovenia in 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, Dr. Franz Runk! There was a lot of concern at the Ministry of Environment and Space in the area last year. Of course, this continues, and we have strengthened the team that is preparing this program. It is true, however, that this National Housing Programme was developed informally last year. It was possible to access it on the website; in January, some of the starting points are now being adapted to all the comments we have received. In February, it will be given to the public. The public hearing lasts for a month and is intended for all, meaning that any comments may be made on such a document by a number of interested parties. I admit that our goal is to have it in Parliament this year. Whether this goal is achieved or not, much depends on us in every way. Why am I being so careful? I am particularly careful because, already in this informal public consultation, a number of these contents have been shown to be diametrically opposed to comments. It is, of course, necessary to take a cautious approach to the realization or adoption of those initiatives, which, somehow in the context of the objective of ensuring that the National Housing Programme provides the widest possible basis for ensuring the resolution of the housing problems of the younger and, of course, the elderly. I give you recognition, honourable Member, you are interested in this subject, you are following us. We already answered you in writing at the beginning of December and then at the end of December. I hope that we have been precise enough in our answers to satisfy you with the answers. It is true that when I mention ILO priorities alone, this priority is not among the first three, but is among the first six priorities. We are indeed committed not only to the creation of the National Housing Programme, but in particular to the content that would meet the needs of all those who still have to solve this housing problem in their lives. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you. Dr. Franz Trcek wants to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry. I'm not happy with the answer. It is true that not only I, the team of colleagues in the United Left, are working on this, monitoring the situation, and making some international comparisons. I can be satisfied with the promptness of the ministry's responses, unlike some other ministries, where I am waiting for more time, even though they have a more complete composition. But I certainly can't be satisfied with the situation. You said it was an informal form of decomposition. I'm going to talk to the Urban Institute and some of the leading experts in this area hardly know what to say; yes, because they hung something. In short, as I have stated, in the residential world there is only one tenant representative, in the residential world there is no half a dozen or maybe 10 – no, I will say half a dozen – leading experts and experts in this area, neither from the Urbanist Institute, nor from the FDV, nor from Cirman's colleague from the Faculty of Economics. On the one hand, I am surprised that they are not there, and on the other hand, I am not surprised to read that draft, which is hard to read for us who have little control of the area. It has some subjects that are exposed, but in this country we expect not 50 pages of some salad, but I can give it a dozen, 15 pages that will be interesting and understandable to everyone. In short, what is housing policy, how we're going to deal with it in this country. It is not just young people who do not yet have an apartment, but half of the pensioners live on the edge or below the edge of poverty. What will happen to them, where they will provide money for autonomy in some apartments whose quality will fall; and could speak for another three hours. Thanks for that. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you. Does the Minister of the Environment and Space want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you. I would not be adding anything to the answer itself, but I would say that if the experts who are willing to participate in the preparation of this document are at least no one has addressed the Ministry. In setting up different commissions, we experience exactly the opposite, thanks for the cooperation, because there are enough other options in the system itself. The documentation should be made public and said that they would then benefit from the possibilities and would be involved in the preparation of the documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u170	I can partly understand this puzzling expertise, probably from the history of some pretenses over the last 20 years. Of course, I will take this opportunity to propose a public debate and a vote on this subject. But before that, I was thinking whether I should suggest it or not, because at the previous regular session, everything the opposition proposed was over-voted; even though there was a third of those proposals possible, I will say local and possibly someone who did not know the matter was even exotic; and two thirds of them were urgent matters that we should deal with in this society and in this country. It saddens me how quickly SMC in particular adopted this habit of the past quarter of the century in Slovenia in a way that you can do. In short, I will propose a public debate, but I already know in advance that I will probably be over-voted. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27 January 2015, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Franz Križanič will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u172	Dearly Honourable High Council! Slovenia was in artificially organised economic shock in 2012 and 2013. And in this shock, some extremely damaging macroeconomic actions were taken. One of the worst was a significant increase in public debt in the divestment of state commitment from a purely private relationship. In order to do so, the credits of the business banks were shown to be possessed, within the scope and structure which in no way corresponded to the Slovenian economy. It was mainly about loans to economic organisations, to businesses. The continuation of the scenario is obvious and the public debt remains with the State, and businesses and banks are being cheaply sold as a condition that the State can take on such a large debt in accordance with State aid standards. Social Democrats believe that the sale of state shares in various banks and businesses cannot serve this purpose. It should be borne in mind that at the same time the banks were still nationalised, that nationalised people would be willing to pay back their shares and that they would be very likely to be successful in doing so. What was that all about? The assessments, which led to a large takeover of the national liabilities in Slovenia's public debt, were carried out by means of so-called stress tests. These tests were basically three. On 1 May 2013, the Bank of Slovenia carried out the first one deep in the middle of orchestrated hysteria, including in the public eye, and found that the entire Slovenian banking system has 2.4 billion euro deficits in the event of an unfavourable scenario, says a deep recession. The second was carried out by Oliver Wyman, a consulting firm from below, and Ronald Berger Strategy Consultants, a consulting firm from above. In the case of the basic scenario, Ronald Berger estimated EUR 2.7 billion in deficit, in the event of an unfavourable scenario of EUR 3.3 billion in deficit in the Slovenian banking system. Oliver Wyman, however, assessed 4 billion euros in the baseline scenario and 4.8 billion euros in deficits in the event of an unfavourable scenario. Guess who they took as an indicator for transferring claims to a bad bank? They took, of course, the worst — 4.8 billion. Both tests differed by almost 50%; 45% if we consider Ronald Berger to be the basis. And it follows from here that the tests should be repeated. On the basis of these tests, a significant part of the loans were transferred to a bad bank and the State made commitments. And now I want to know: How much of the public funds will be earmarked in 2015 to pay interest on issued bonds and recapitalisation of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you. The answer will be given in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u174	I suggest he's at the next meeting to let the public know this number. And I will, of course, use it in the political work ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With the monitoring of the Eurostat European Statistical Office, I can identify the following. In the review of the scope of construction works last year, this increased throughout the European Union, and in Slovenia it fell sharply last year. Looking at more concrete data, the last quarter or the last month of the construction season last year, the volume of construction works increased by 2.5% in November in the European Union area, by 11.2% in Slovenia. This is particularly strong among all members of the European Union. I do not understand such a drastic reduction in investment funds for both municipalities and state-level projects or state-level projects. Much less, I understand that the preparation of projects, major projects of state importance, does not run with as much dynamic as it should run; but where there is no progress in these projects, placing so much on the ground of resources. This is not about lack of resources, this is about bad legislation, this is about a lot of bureaucratic obstacles, this is about a set of segments that are slowing down progress, preparing large projects, preparing for placement. I therefore ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space of Mr Gasperšić also on the fact that the financial perspective 2014-2020 is already running: What is the plan of activity for placing in the area of the third development axis from the motorway to Velenje? This is the northern part of the third development axis in this lower section. However, I would like to know what is envisaged for the progress of placement in the area in 2015. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u177	Thank you. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, honourable Member, Mr Ljub Žnidar, for the question raised. In the first place, I would have questioned the statistics that you mentioned in relation to the major construction decline in 2014. Because only in the area of infrastructure has there been quite a lot of investment this year; only in railway infrastructure over EUR 400 million, which is very close to what was invested annually in road infrastructure at the time of the intensive implementation of the highway cross. And we know that there have been other works going on, so I'm just going to check these statistics that you've given me, because, as it were, they surprise me. With regard to the area of roads in the financial perspective 2014-2020, I must also say that this is not a priority area for which the European Union would like to invest most of its resources. Priority investments will focus on rail and public passenger transport. However, in its plans in the next financial perspective, Slovenia has foreseen financing of road projects that are ready to be implemented at this time, namely the Drazenci-Gruškovje section and the third development axis across the New City, as well as the other pipeline of the caravan tunnel. In placing the third development axis from the A1 to Velenje motorway, we were faced with a number of significant problems, mainly related to areas of environmental protection and agricultural land. At the moment, work is being done on placement in the central corridor at Podlod, where significant environmental problems are also indicated in the further adoption of the State Spatial Plan. Today, the minister has already mentioned problems with water protection areas. As a result, a consultation in Velenje at the end of 2014 announced that, in addition to the continuation of the procedure in this part, the acceptability of the route in the Šentrupert connection area would be reviewed, where the process for protecting agricultural land had already been halted years ago. This was in 2012. I can assure you and confirm that our efforts in this project, together with the Ministry of Environment and Space, are aimed at finding the fastest possible procedure that would lead to the adoption of the VAT, which would then enable the construction of this much-needed section as quickly as possible. However, I do not have to actually confirm to you here that this will be possible already this year, because, as the Minister has already mentioned, we need to check the possibility of this accommodation being acceptable to the premises in terms of the protection of agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u180	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Let me add, from Eurostat I've collected data, since the end of November, these data are listed there, and I've taken them there. That's the source of that assessment. However, I agree that some infrastructure projects in the rail sector have been maintained. That one, I'd say it's kind of statistical, high percentage of construction work, but it's really more statistical. I would like to draw attention here to past practice in the placement of all major infrastructure projects in the country. These projects are very rare, which were put in place before they were ten years old. If we ask ourselves here how much it costs us as a country, I can quickly see that we are irrational here. We often refer to agricultural legislation, environmental legislation, natural protection legislation. Yeah, well, then let's change these laws, fix them. That's the problem. Now I'm going to evaluate, I think that this third development axis is going to run for eight, nine years, we're somewhere close. Here too, this bad practice is repeated. I believe that you are striving for this activity, but here I would only like to take a step further. Where certain legislation is not operational, is not feasible or is such a drastic obstacle, then this legislation needs to be amended, re-coordinated and amended. The goal is to find and come to a solution; but not, "I can't, the obstacles are such and different," [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you. Minister of Infrastructure, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I could only add a very brief view of this legislation, which is actually very difficult to place objects in space. I would also say from my experience in this area that I am not too fond of this ongoing amendment of legislation. I think we need to make progress in implementing this legislation. In this way, we will also be able to get solutions and placements more quickly if only this legislation that we have is properly implemented; and these procedures are often, I think, even after needlessly long-lasting, often not too active in these solutions or are being hunted in some procedures. I think that it is also often necessary — and the country is already working on — to complete its various databases. In particular, in the area of flood safety, much of this has already been done, so that all of these procedures can run faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar also wants procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you very much. In particular, from this point of view, I would suggest that a public debate should be held, that the emphasis should be placed on or that the problem areas should be further crystallized, which impede the placement of major state projects in the space itself. I propose that a public debate be held to draw attention to all these bureaucratic, legislative and other inhibitors and to move faster into space. I think it would be useful for all of us, and of course also for the profession as well as for the Ministry itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27 January 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now Mrs Janja Slug will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanislavi Setnikar Cankar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, both ministers, fellow Members! Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanislavo Setnikar Cankar asks the following questions: Do you believe that the current system of validation of new secondary education programmes provides sufficient development and employment opportunities in a specific local environment or region? Where do you see problems, and can we expect any changes in this area? We often hear that educational programmes do not follow the needs of employers and, on the other hand, in the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, from July 2014 to December 2015, we are reminded that there is too much emphasis on adapting the education system to the labour market. In this context, I believe that the criteria for deciding on the appropriateness and potential introduction of a new education programme in secondary schools are flawed, and this certainly does not contribute to progress. Programmes for secondary schools have already been announced this year, but some of the good programmes have not been approved, despite the fact that they were made by laboratories with accurate analysis and the staff and material capacities provided. Thus, in the case of the new professional technical programme, the fashion designer at the Celje School Centre, the Art Department at the Ljutomer Gymnasium and in the case of the Health Care Department at the Ormož Gymnasium. For example, I will only give a brief description of the Central School for Service Activities and Logistics from the Celje School Centre, which has submitted an application for approval of the new Professional and Technical Programme of the fashion designer. According to the new programme, students are to be educated in areas such as biology, chemistry and textiles that teachers who are already trained in these areas can teach in this school. The Institute also has all the equipment, classrooms and workshops for the implementation of the programme, and the secondary school programme responds to the needs of the labour market, as the school has also obtained an assessment of how many teaching places companies in the region could offer for practical education and also for later employment. For practical education, on the basis of an assessment of 15 companies, 30 to 31 apprenticeships are envisaged for each year of education and in 2017-2021 companies could employ about 20 pupils; however, this programme was not approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u188	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, I thank you for the question that has really hit the core of the problem; how to strike a balance between the needs of the labour market, i.e. employers, the wishes of students, parents and the local communities and the organisations that educate for these needs. This is a matter of reflection, not of the validation of educational programmes, but of the distribution of tendering places, which are the subject of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport's decision on a case-by-case basis. We are faced with a network of schools that apparently originated during a period when demographic needs were different, when the number of children in primary schools was higher and economic activity was different. Today, it cannot be overlooked that this network of schools is capable of educating more students than will be enrolled and that past decisions 10, 15, 20 years ago have led to the growth of secondary education institutions that were built in the distance of 20, 25, 30 kilometers from each other. And today, two, three, which we have classified and very carefully analysed also in this broader regional framework, have great difficulties in getting enough children to implement the programmes. Moreover, when we met with a large majority of the leaders of these educational institutions and also local communities – let me say that one of the last meetings with the mayor of Ormož Municipality, the mayors of Ptuj Municipality and the principals of Ormož Gymnasium, Lutomer Gymnasium and Ptuj Gymnasium – we found that not only are they competing in this work for a small number of elementary school children, but that in recent years parents have decided and now more than a class of children are studying in neighbouring Austria. This led to the emergence of a fourth competitive institution in such a small area, which is decided by young people and their parents. That is why this is one of the most pressing issues that is joined by the problems of student homes. This was also built, built for when the child was older; the student homes are emptied and have been looking for opportunities for their activities for several years. We contacted other departments when we were looking for answers to these questions. For students' homes we met with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and for this network of schools with local communities and also institutions working in a somewhat broader environment. We've found that all we have to do is find solutions together. Let me mention something you mentioned. As far as Ormož High School is concerned, the problem is the most pressing. Why was the Health Care Programme not put in place? Because there was no proposal; especially because the criteria for its decision in addition to the material conditions, the staffing conditions, in addition to the data on how many children were enrolled in the previous year, how many cities were awarded and how many seats were registered, we also take into account the opinion of the Chamber. The opinion of the Health and Grandmothers Chamber, as well as the Ministry of Health, is that the European Directive must be respected and that employment criteria will be increased here. With regard to the Celje School Centre, it has already been found that the programme The Creator of Fashion Dresses is already being implemented in the context of secondary vocational education [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] However, to continue, it is envisaged that these resources for further specialisations may be drawn up within the framework of European cohesion funds. Since the option of using is not indicated until the end of 2015, this will be possible in the next study year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! I would like to say my own question, and I would like to draw attention to a problem that has already begun to occur to many Slovenian citizens and citizens in the past year. More than 15,000 Slovenian citizens are receiving, they received regular mail from the Platovšek Lawyer's Office that they have to pay for parking within eight days, which they are supposed to owe for three years and more to the Croatian company Sanitat Dubrovnik, as well as to some other Croatian companies. The bill amounted to 22.21 euros for parking and 50 euros for legal costs. Otherwise, they will be brought before the Slovenian courts. A quick calculation shows that some lawyers and Croatian companies would want to receive more than EUR 1 million unjustifiably from the pockets of Slovenian citizens. The basis for these claims should be only photographs of parked vehicles which cannot be determined where the vehicle was located when the vehicle was located. And, of course, he also did not explain whether this company had any concession to provide such services at all; which is undoubtedly, and today, many disputes and media in Croatia prove that a number of companies have demanded some payment, where they do not have any concessions, in some tourist areas in Croatia. And if they demanded it, we could actually define it as some kind of fraud. That's why I'm asking you: First time. How will the executive authority protect Slovenian citizens from unjustified claims by Croatian companies? Many of them also paid for parking, while they do not have proof of payment after three or more years; others have never even parked in their parking lots. Another time. How will the executive authority protect citizens from undue access to their personal data, as some law firms abuse the first and second paragraphs of Article 10 of the Law on Lawyers? Third time. Will the executive power change the first and second paragraphs of Article 10 of the Law on Lawyers for obvious abuse to the detriment of all Slovenian citizens; and if so, when will it do so? Fourth time. How will the executive act against furry lawyers who charge disproportionately high legal costs to Slovenian citizens without any legal basis? Fifth. How does he feel about the apparent abuse of the Law on the Law on the Lawyers of Information? This, of course, is not a question for you, but generally in some suggestion; it is also likely to be an abuse of an informational nature. Is it also proposed that any amendment of the legislation be proposed on its part, in particular I am referring to the Law on Lawyers, which I have mentioned. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you. The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent will answer. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I think you asked me six specific questions. I'm afraid I can't answer some of them because I'm not the right address, but I'm going to try the right address. We're aware of the problem, but the problem is multilayer. First there's a question here, I'll try to shorten it. [[…]] The first thing is, you know, solicitors are self-serving, the Ministry can't handle disciplinary proceedings against individual lawyers and so on. But we have already, or I think, since the previous government, when these things appeared in the media, contacted the Bar Association, which has told us that there are already two disciplinary procedures that have not yet been completed in this regard. Now that we've asked you your last question, we've asked you again. Then I'm 21. 11. 2014 addressed the Chamber of Counsel with the proposal that this issue be also addressed by the Ethics Commission of the Chamber. It is not just an intervention in the acquisition of personal data, by the way – according to the Chamber of Counsel, which is competent to judge this – it is not supposed to be an abuse. In this regard, the information officer also gave an opinion that in this case it should not be an abuse, because lawyers, however, have a basis in the contracts concluded in this regard. And the fact is that lawyers, in the performance of their duties, have a view, subject to the conclusion of a mandate in accordance with Article 10 of the Law on Lawyers, to obtain data contained in databases of personal data maintained by national authorities. The problem is that a few Euros or some 10 Euros of fines also charge around 50 Euros of legal services, although the law is very clear about this and stipulates that the costs of a lawyer’s service must be paid by the client or the contracting authority, it is a parking lot, not by the one who should pay for it. And after all, one more thing that's important. If we worked at a legal rate, one such procedure would be around €5. However, these parking lots have concluded special contracts. We think it deserves a disciplinary procedure. We hope it will be completed as soon as possible in front of the Bar. Due to the law, the amendment of the law adopted in this National Assembly before the new year, the results of this disciplinary procedure, however it will be reversed, and the decision of the Ethics Commission will also be made publicly available on the Internet. Otherwise it is essentially a private dispute, here the state does not interfere, the state will not do so either by repressive methods. Although it may be too brave to say it, but I would advise every citizen – parking is one thing. If you owe him, if you know you owe him, pay him. Paying for this kind of legal services that you didn't put on your own, but that's another thing. If I were a private person, I wouldn't pay for it, and I don't think it'd ever be exhausting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr Franz Breznik wishes to request a supplement to the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, what I am interested in as a member of the legislative branch of power is, of course, whether there is any legal void. Who are the lobbyists who have also abused the first and second paragraphs of Article 10 of the Law on Lawyerry? Whether there has been some implementation of European legislation, arrangements, or whether we should reconsider if there is a gap in the two, at least these two paragraphs of Article 10, are somehow being amended. That is also why I will not propose a public hearing institute today, but that at least until the next meeting, a review may be made, perhaps give me another written answer to go to some amendment to this first and second paragraphs. I believe that this is an abuse and that we are allowing a legal dictatorship to increase the abuse of many lawyers. I do not think that ethical judgment in the framework of the Bar would be able to do so, to correct all these injustices. Another problem is that these numerous companies have already lost many judicial disputes in Croatia. According to some of the data I have, which I have also received from the police, they have lost and have no concessions, they have no legal basis to be eligible at all. In fact, we can seriously suspect that it is pure abuse, it is pure fraud in connection with these lawyers' offices, along with these companies; perhaps not all of them, maybe there are companies that have concessions. Even according to the media, even some of our police experts there is a serious legal void. And of course it's an abuse. And this is what we, as Members, as legislative authorities, might be interested in. Here I would suggest that we reconsider if we went to some amendment to these two paragraphs, because I think that we would somehow step on those people who are trying such frauds through our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you. The reply will be completed by the Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I take your proposal as extremely well-intentioned. We'll take a look, even though we've already seen it with expert associates at the Ministry. It is necessary to know that this Article of the Law on Lawyers needs to be done because, in 99%, a lawyer must have access to personal data in the databases if he has a client's mandate. Finally, this article is also present in other sectoral legislation. Like a private investigator, if you authorize him to do something, he has the right to obtain certain personal data. What is important and yet right is that people know that every such view is also registered. This isn't so black-handed. However, in this particular case, I would like to join in, although I do not want to prejudge that there are abuses. I can't tell you anything else than to promise you that at the first college of colleagues in the Directorate of Law, I will once again point out that we will once again look at the issue; and perhaps we will also talk to the Chamber of Counsel, which I believe is not in her interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Tillen Bozič will ask the Minister for Public Administration Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I hope that he will join us. My question will concern the hyperproduction of legislation on the one hand and the lack of enforcement on the other. As an introduction to the question, let me give you an example on the Coast — I was elected to the National Assembly by Isolank and Isolanov — especially by the staff. Black construction. There's thousands of black buildings on the coast. Problems are both on private land, such as the Agricultural Land Fund. It is particularly relevant, however, that the Fund was set up to protect these lands, in relation to denationalisation procedures. Cases have been written, since the former Polish houses, holiday trailers or cargo containers for tools that slowly blacked out, built, and became residential units with a rich sea view. And the sight of these lands from the sea becomes a force poor, to the huts of the earth, to the dryers of fruit, and to the tents of agriculture. In the area of prevention of black construction, we have a number of employees at different levels and departments under the law, and they are the first to be called on by the government to enforce legislation. In this chain, which should function flawlessly, an article has fallen out asking questions about the whole system. We can call it the classic Slovenian political paradox – we have no money to tear down black buildings. The exception is, of course, only when the State de facto demolishes itself for the purposes of awareness-raising or advertising actions. Perhaps everyone is familiar with the case of Mr Kuzmić from Bohinj. We find different stories in the field. For example, an inspector visits a notified building site to raise the floor because he has to; at the same time, the exact same action is being built on black, without a building permit – he does not visit it. The farmer would like to build an economic facility for the expansion of agricultural activities and he cannot fight bureaucratic mills on the wind in any way. And someone on a neighboring plot vehemently builds a so-called non-aid facility, and even without a foundation, joins on water and electricity. Such cases have been repeatedly exposed to the media. Avoiding the rules also takes place in close cooperation with some licensed designers. I don't have any information about the misdemeanours. It appears that some designers, including retired, are extremely productive, as they sign several ten times more projects than their competing colleagues in the industry. We are at a time when there are rules that do not fully implement or are not fully implemented in the case of a hyper-production of legislation; however, monitoring that ensures the systematic enforcement of these rules is weak, or the rules change, even before they begin to be implemented in practice. It is therefore important to plan the implementation and implementation of these necessary resources when adopting legislation. It is the importance of analysing the effects or results of [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] legislation shall, after a certain period of time, demonstrate. [[…]] Now the question is: I wonder what measures will the Government take in the area of monitoring the implementation or enforcement of legislation within the next six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u199	The answer will be given by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Member, for the question. I apologize for being a little late because of some other obligation, but fortunately, the question in question in advance was announced. I would briefly explain, with only a few key projects that are actually being implemented and already being implemented in practice. Since 2009, we have reviewed 3 000 500 regulations and measured them with the so-called system of measuring regulatory burdens in practice according to the European methodology, where it has been found that the total burden of regulations in terms of costs and time spent on them is about a billion and a half billion. At that time, an ambitious objective was set to reduce the burden by 25% due to these individual rules. The measures are being concluded this year and we have started the final phase in recent weeks, by measuring how many rules have actually been improved, what is the reduction of this burden; and this will be known by November 2015. All measures are also published on the www.stopbicrocija.si portal where measures are specifically presented, their effects, financial evaluation, as well as the rules that have been amended. But it's from 250 registered rules ca. 50 already fully modified, 100 of them in the process. At the same time, we are also transferring the supervision of the implementation of the de-de-ircracy procedures concerning entrepreneurs from the Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of the Economy. Another important activity is the removal of administrative barriers. It's a special procedure. Here, too, if we look at specific data, in 2012, we put negative opinions on a total of 303 verified rules, in 2013 177 negative opinions on more than 500 verified regulations and in 2014 96 negative opinions on 530 verified rules; this means that every regulation that comes in the final phase also through the Ministry of Public Administration will be reviewed by us as to its burdens and its consistency with other regulations. And we note that these effects or the content of the regulations are also improving, and above all it is important that many of the sub-laws have actually been repealed or merged at this time. This is one of those measures that has the greatest impact. This year, however, we are starting a so-called SME test, which is a test of the impact of each regulation on the economy in terms of the time spent by the economy in implementing a regulation and the resources used to bind to this particular regulation. Therefore, a specific application related to e-rescriptions is built, which means that it is not independent, but is linked to the current regulatory process, including the IPP. The special advantage of this application is that you can draw up a regulation in different variants, release it through a so-called calculator and directly determine how much time and money it will take to implement a specific rule. There is another set of activities that we also coordinate in our ministry, and this is a project for public inclusion. It is in this February that this RIA project, as we call it, begins with concrete training, which is carried out through individual ministries. One interesting fact was also found in this project that we had a thousand and 360 regulations in 1991, and we currently have some more than 19 000. This means that there is indeed a great hyperproduction of regulations, and the way in which they are repealed is not so simple, since each regulation actually regulates a particular matter. And it is only possible to transfer the responsibility laid down by a rule to one decision maker or actually combine the rules and thus simplify them. So you can't just break a rule, but you always have to assess its impact on actual implementation. Here in the future, we have a challenging task – the synchronisation of the whole legislation, which is more distant in the future. Maybe in this place you'd just show, say, this one, you probably know the logo of Stop bureaucracy. I suggest you really take a look at this website, because it is very clear what is happening to our regulations. And an interesting campaign aimed at regulatory operators, which is tanning precisely the same area, to involve the general public at an early stage in the preparation of the regulations; and thus they are also of better quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. To Diane jedan, who's gone. Please also indicate whether a written reply is sufficient or if you insist on an oral response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! Nice greeting to the ministers who are here! Minister of Agriculture Mag. I am asking about the new Regulation on complementary activities in the farm. The regulation was amended just before the end of the previous government. The new Regulation was dated July 2014, published on 12. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I ask the minister: Why in the new Regulation on complementary activities in the farm which has been in force since 12. 8. no more production and sales of energy from water, wind and solar renewables? The old regulation, which I also have before me, of February 13 February 2014, is said to have been in force for about half a year, talking about the production and sale of renewable energy, where it speaks of wood biomass, fertilisers, other biomass, water resources, wind sources and solar sources, which is understandable to me. The original articles discuss the acquisition and sale of renewables. The new regulation, which was adopted just before the completion of the work of the previous government, no longer provides an annex on what renewable resources are and which are made possible as an additional activity on the farm. Article 19 provides for the production and sale of renewable energy as an additional activity for the processing of plant waste and for the production and production of energy from renewable sources only from biomass and fertilisers, fertilisers and plant substrates. I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Why are renewable resources such as water resources, wind and solar sources eliminated? I think that this is an important question to which I have not received an answer so far despite the question why these renewables have been excluded from the Regulation on complementary activities in agriculture. For a significant part of Slovenia, I think it is important to complement the activity of water resources on farms. It is also a matter of very small units, where it is pointless for these people to open espions, parts and similar things in accordance with the new regulation. I would understand a regulation that would define some power of these plants and on this basis also define what else is allowed and what is not. However, to ensure that the key renewable resources that we have at our disposal in Slovenia are excluded from such a regulation, this is unacceptable to me. I expect the Minister's written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We all know the issue of Thermoelectric Trbovlje. On 17 November last year, a decision was taken at the meeting of the Thermoelectric Assembly to initiate a regular winding-up procedure. This meeting was, in my personal opinion, called extremely quickly, even too quickly, as if someone were in a terrible hurry to send a thermoelectric power plant to the liquidation; and contrary to the decision taken at the ODR in Zagorje, where you, the distinguished minister, were present. On 8 December last year, a working meeting was convened at the Municipality of Trbovlje. This consultation of all energy stakeholders and experts expected the best ideas for the rescue of Tet and its employees took place at my initiative in Zasavje, more specifically in Trbovje, and the meeting was attended personally by the President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. This meeting established a specific coordination group to try to find and implement the best possible solution for Tet and its employees. Since then, no official information has been provided by the Ministry, nor by the said coordination group, as to what solutions, if any, have been found for the thermal power plant and its employees. That is why I am also asking you this question today. I'm interested and I'm asking for specific answers: What exactly has been done so far in the process of liquidation of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje? However, I have an additional question about the very employment of employees in the thermal power plant. I received in my hands, days ago, a programme for the resolution of excess workers of Termoelectric Trbovlje in liquidation on 14 January 2015 by the liquidator Luka Podděd. Over the content of the program, I was extremely disappointed not to say shocked. It states that in the first phase of the liquidation process, 24 workers will immediately lose their jobs, saying they will receive a decision with a 30-day notice. In the second phase, between 3 and 24 months, 57 remaining workers, a total of 151 thermoelectric workers. More than apparently despite the maximum effort, at least it was written in this programme, which is supposed to have been invested in it, that they failed to employ any worker, not even those with disability status. Not in HSE, nor in Eles, who had previously announced that because of his needs he would employ a greater number of employees from the thermal power plant. That's why I'm asking you: What exactly is the fate of these workers, how does it even show with the work? I thank you, Minister-designate, for these answers and for our good cooperation so far, which I expect to do in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Thank you, honourable Member Ivan Hršak, for the question raised. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we are constantly following with great attention the developments at the Termoelectrica Trbovlje. However, we must be aware that Tet is an economic company which, like all other companies, had to survive its market activity. I would like to point out that, with all the known changes in the area of capital management, the Ministry of Infrastructure de facto and also de jure does not have the possibility of having an impact on Tet's business, since Tet is the majority owned by HSE, which is managed by the Slovenian State Holding Company. With regard to Tet, I would also like to reiterate that, under the scheme, the State has committed to the use of a domestic primary energy source to secure energy supply in the period 2001-2012 to Tet a little over €175 million. Although this scheme ended with the cessation of coal production in Trbovlje-Hrastnik Rudnik, it allowed for the operation and development of the Termoelectric Trbovlje. In addition, the country has so far allocated more than €186 million to close the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. At the same time, it sought to ensure that restructuring was as easy as possible with additional financial assistance for development programmes in the region. The Tet issue has also been addressed several times on the already mentioned Economic and Social Committee on Energy, where energy unions, employers and the Ministry of Infrastructure address issues that are important for the social partners. On ESOE, the director of Eles presented the application of Tet to the power system of the Republic of Slovenia on the Economic and Social Committee. We can repeat the two key points that he highlighted. The reliability of operation in central Slovenia is virtually independent of the operation of Tet and it would be unwise to leave this energy location. For these reasons, Eles has already purchased and taken over the switch station, which is part of the transmission infrastructure. In view of the market situation, the owner, this is HSE, decided to liquidate Tet. On 22 January, in the last week, the winding-up manager presented the surplus workers' programme in order to lose 94 workers in the next week; later, in the period of up to two years, as you have already mentioned. The meeting was also attended by the Co-ordinator of the Zasavje Working Group at the President of the Government, who presented the results of the coordination in the Tet case and numbered the employment opportunities and possible new employers. In doing so, the Ministry of Infrastructure has also actively called on all energy companies to explore the employment opportunities of surplus workers from the Termoelectric Trbovlje. The winding-up manager stressed that it still allows for more ways to carry out liquidations, namely the sale of a functioning whole, the sale of functional parts and the sale of individual parts. While the Ministry of Infrastructure is preparing a sectoral strategy, it cannot interfere with such business decisions by subsidiaries. While I assess that the problem of Tet, especially the previous two-year sale, has not been optimal, as much time has been lost that could be used to find more effective solutions. We miss the synergistic management of the Slovenian state energy holding company, because we do not imagine that the optimal management of companies could be in a way that allows qualified staff from systems to be forgiven and then found elsewhere and again on the market. However, it would be easier to re-employment if the provisions of Article 188 of the ZUJF were extended to employees of the main state ownership. These are provisions allowing for the dismissal of workers who have already fulfilled the conditions for retirement. We estimate that there are about 550 employees in electricity who already meet all the conditions for retirement but who do not retire or, I will say, do not want to retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr Jan Mahnic will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ministers, ministers, dear fellow Members and Members! The state of the state road network in the Republic of Slovenia is catastrophic. In Slovenia, the biggest emphasis in recent years, particularly from a financial point of view, has been on the construction of the highway cross, which has certainly contributed positively to transport regulation, in particular in terms of flow and mobility. Now that it's finished, we can see that in all these years we've forgotten about the maintenance of state roads. Less funds for these are known as long-term damage or failure to meet recovery and recovery needs. Some of the roads are still macadamian, some are narrow and dangerous, and to a large extent also long-lasting and necessary thorough rehabilitation. New constructions are also planned and placed in development programmes, but they are waiting for a more favourable time to finance. Many road projects move from year to year from budget to budget. Even if the works are already under way, there are many who have survived the collapse, so is the bankruptcy of construction companies. Many roads are also more destroyed because they were used in the construction of highways and in the reconstruction of railway infrastructure. Often there are difficulties in buying land, of course the prices are then impossible, and there is more money for the purchases themselves, less for the construction. However, the most worrying view of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 is that compared to 2014, investments in road infrastructure are even lower. After four months of taking over the Ministry, there is neither the spirit nor the hearing that we would have any plan to finance the reconstruction of roads, even though this was one of the pre-election promises of the Mir Cerar Party. As part of this promise, I would personally expect you to change immediately at the beginning of your term of office the wrong action of the Government of Borut Pahor, which allowed the redeployment of funds from reimbursement for the use of roads during the technical inspection of the vehicle into railway infrastructure. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: What criteria will you use as regards priority in the maintenance, modernisation and reconstruction of state roads, which are far behind? When can we expect the abolition of a measure whereby funds that should be invested in the rehabilitation of road infrastructure can be invested in rail infrastructure? Can we expect in the 2015 rebalancing of funds on the item dedicated to the Slovenian Roads Directorate? Will you insist on the current years set out for the development agenda plan; or can you expect to put them back in the unknown for the future? Do you support the community’s idea of a gas station? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u209	Thank you. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u210	Thank you. With regard to this issue of maintenance or renewal of the state road network, this is how it would start. The renewal of this network, managed by the Slovenian Infrastructure Company, depends solely and exclusively on the provision of financial resources. A detailed analysis has already been made of how much of this funding at the annual level the Directorate would need for its optimum work; this estimate is around €300 million. In this way, if these funds were to be provided at such a level, the state of state roads would begin to improve and greater transport safety would also be ensured. Unfortunately, when preparing the 2015 budget rebalancing, we are faced with restrictions that will not allow such investment in this road infrastructure. For this reason, we have drawn up three funding scenarios, with priorities at three levels; these are the priorities at level A as a matter of urgency and then the priorities B and C as a more optimal solution. If I remain on priority A, which represents the implementation of the most urgent legal obligations and the implementation of the already signed contracts, where regular maintenance, management and transport security resources would be provided, for the implementation of the already signed investment contracts, for the implementation of obligations in the area of rehabilitation of beaches, beaches, bridges, land compensation, land acquisition, for the basic administration of the Directorate and for the implementation of European projects, then these funds should be allocated to EUR 190 million. While we are not improving the state of state roads by means of the means for this priority, we are only ensuring the recovery of the most urgent injuries, the implementation of regular road maintenance to a minimum. However, we do not guarantee transport on all state roads and facilities without restrictions. Priority B would represent the amount of resources needed to ensure transport safety and transport on national roads and to maintain the existing state of affairs. In addition, municipal projects from European funds are also taken into account in this priority, partly co-financed by the Directorate under the co-financing agreements. The estimate of these funds is an additional almost €80 million. In order to carry out all A and B activities, it would take approximately €270 million. However, if we wanted to invest in state road infrastructure to such an extent that we would also improve the existing situation, it is said that we would ensure the rehabilitation of bridges, banks, the rehabilitation of beaches and the management of roads through settlements, bypasses and other activities, we would need an additional €30 million. That is the total of EUR 300 million, as I mentioned at the outset. Unfortunately, the current resources are not enough to fully implement the most urgent activities under Priority A. Therefore, at the Ministry we are already looking forward to finding solutions towards providing a permanent source of funding at a sufficient level to enable targeted, dedicated and economic management of road and rail infrastructure. Once again, I cannot tell you some solutions in this place about how we are going to secure this permanent source. The thinking was, as suggested by the municipalities, to introduce some additional petrol cent. That's possible. We know that about 20 million euros in the budget is being collected from about every cent. Every cent, say excise duty; but on the other hand, we know that we already have a heavy burden on fuel excises and that this causes fuel to be supplied outside Slovenia. Here we have to provide in some reasonable and appropriate way other resources besides this annual levy that you have already mentioned [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] ensure the continued and sustainable financing of these measures in the maintenance of road and rail infrastructures. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u211	Mr Jan Mahnic has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Let me just give you an example of what the state has to do with its road infrastructure and, as a result, with citizens and citizens, to illustrate the case of the road from my place; I believe you know. This is the road to Sorico, in the Selska Valley. The start of reconstruction dates back to 2005 with the first phase. The entire project of reconstruction of the poor three kilometres of road is expected to be completed according to the original information in four phases and even in due course. And where are we now? As I said before, in 2005 the first phase of reconstruction began at a length of 0.8 km. The works were carried out in the least difficult part and operators were able to perform a rough asphaltation just before the first snow in November. The quality of the work was questionable. By the following spring, they had appeared on the first crack road. In 2007, parts followed by the start of the second phase of 0.8 km, which ended in 2008. One year later, in 2009, the construction of the 3rd phase began at a distance of 0.9 km. Then nothing happened in 2010 and 2011. They opened the road, closed it, opened it with restrictions, and so on. Also in 2012 nothing was done; the road remained open with restrictions. It was not until 2013 that the road closed and at one of the meetings an oral agreement was reached with the municipality, contractor and local community to complete the works by the end of 2013 to the extent that the road through the winter will also be transported by bus. Even from the fourth stage, there was not much to say about the fact that the fifth stage is 500 meters long ahead. It is said that the country is unable to manage about 3 kilometers [3 km] of long road within 10 years. The road is still not for buses, as the Directorate has already provided that the state in which the current road to Sorico is in the Selska Valley will soon be unable to maintain the road in such a state. Thank you for giving me these three points, specifically, A, B and C. And that's why I'm asking you once again: Can we count the road to Sorico under Measure A? Since the matter is urgent, how will you approach the rescue? When can we expect the final phase? How are the railways; are you going to stop the action?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u213	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u214	Funding for the maintenance of road infrastructure has been continuously reduced in recent years and has not been regular. This is also the reason why the projects you mentioned were financed in this way — uneconomically, illogically, but not completed. In short, the work that had been started had fallen in between. This is also why in the past year we have had to stop several projects, which have already been financed even by European funds. And such unfinished projects await the provision of these resources. The key thing is that in the coming years – we will try again in 2015, but with the rebalancing it will not be possible to ensure – we will provide these appropriate resources to ensure regular maintenance. We estimate that at least EUR 200 million should be provided for road infrastructure and for rail infrastructure, and some such amount. These funds collected from the annual levy are still split into approximately half; half into road and half into rail infrastructure. We will probably not have to interrupt this further, but, as we say, we will have to provide some additional resources that will represent some continuous supply, on which it will then be possible to plan measures on the training and maintenance of the road network. For this particular section, I cannot yet ensure whether it will be possible to ensure its completion this year or not, because resources are being allocated in the rebalancing process right now. In particular, for each individual project, I do not have as much information as possible to provide; but I can say more in the coming days.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u215	So we have a procedure, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate in response to Mr Gasperšič. I'm not gonna say I'm not happy with the answer. The Minister correctly told me what the situation is, what the situation is, what the budget is like, when we can expect it and when we can't. However, I believe that it is necessary to discuss what infrastructure we have in Slovenia, how to continue to finance it and, above all, where to find these resources. Mr Minister, I would really advise you if we were to ask a few questions about people who pay for registrations and technical checks, how they agree that that duty goes to rail infrastructure. On the one hand it goes and on the other hand it still drives the bus from Ljubljana to Koper, because the consequences of the acorns have not yet been resolved. [[Incomprehensible]] Here are the numbers for 2014. Annual vehicle duty – 144 million came from this heading. Taxes on motor vehicle traffic – about EUR 28 million came from this item. However, we give €105.7 million for the Directive. It is said that we collect 172 million from these taxes, we give 105 million for the Directorate, and 67 million for the manna goes to the railways. And this 67 million, if at least a fraction of it were to invest more in road infrastructure, I believe that problems such as the road to Sorico — 10 years would have to wait for 3 kilometers. When I was up there, I was really surprised that people had to drive on this road every day, and I don't think that's the standard. I don't know where they are. They're in really bad shape. I would really like to ask you when you plan a budget rebalancing so that this measure, which I have mentioned, can be implemented in advance with regard to the financing or amount that comes from the annual vehicle use levy and then is earmarked for railway infrastructure, so that at least we can make a difference here because the roads are in bad shape. We know in the past we've had quite a few severe winters, from salting, sand, flooding, roads are bad, there's no money to maintain. We also have an industrial zone with about 60 employees in the Municipality of Gorenje, Poland, in the former uranium mine area, but Gorenje Vas-Todraž is in poor condition. We don't ask for anything, I don't know what it is, but at least what the state is in charge of. And that the country, through this debate, could meet some of the objectives or at least some basic guidelines on road infrastructure, I think we could work and even at the government then adopt a plan or some priorities, either within the framework of the NRP, which already are; of course, they are the problem of the yearbook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u217	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27 January 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now Dr. Vinko Gorenak, SDS, will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I find the Minister of the Interior has a problem with me. Especially when it comes to answering my questions, even when it comes to facing cameras, he sends someone else. President, I've sent the following question to the Minister. It's such a simple question, because it's funny that I went to such a level that I asked such an elementary question. My question was: Madam Minister, what is your vision of the management of the Ministry of the Interior, on the basis of which you have estimated that the new Director will perform his tasks better than the old ones? Here, the minister hired a lawyer who's already answered my question, so now I'm a little in a quandary and I don't know what to do. Actually, I already have an answer, you know. Since this is not according to the Rules of Procedure – according to the Rules of Procedure, the Minister must answer on her own, not through her "law" Mrs Elizabeth Planinšič – I must remind you, Madam Minister, that she would like you in addition to the vision, as I have also asked the question, to draw attention to some of the mistakes made by your "law" Elizabeth Planinšič. Mr Veniger then offered you, when you resolved him to leave alone, to leave in those days in January, in order to avoid paying the country $70,000. But you didn't accept it. You wanted it and you solved it – immediately and immediately, the door, go! And this country costs 70,000 euros. So I ask you to explain what this fantastic vision of yours the new director has offered better than the old one. By the way, I don't mind the new director, it's just fine that we're clear. But if the choices are system-wide, if we worked together in the sandbox, something's wrong. Then something's wrong. That's one thing. Now what's wrong here. First thing, Mr Veniger did not get 70,000, but 26 thousand euros, so we know; and he will pay his income from it. And your lawyer reports that he's got $70,000 -- that's not true. That's one thing. That's another thing. Here's a message that he was unjustifiably sent to DCAF and he earned too much there, that's where you discredited him a little bit. No, it's not. It was sent there by Mrs Kresalov and Mr Klemenčič. They signed an act on his posting and the height of his salary. Let Mr. Klemenčič discredit, not the former director. Come in. You told me it was my fault for the amount of my retirement. When we were writing the law on the organisation and work of the police, we did not introduce an article that would allow any former director to have any retirement. However, the legislative and legal services of the Government and the Ministry of Administration have warned me that I must do so. Then I'll complete the question, and I'm asking you in particular for a vision. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u219	The Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u220	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Member Gorenak! You've been asking me this question, as you can tell, for the third time. It was the first time you put it on me last year, and you got an answer. Then you re-set it to me this year, the deadline is still open, within 30 days you'll get an answer. Now you're asking me an oral question with the same content, just a little bit of a blur. I will answer you because you insist that we finally clear up this situation around the vision, because you obviously like that word very much. I'll answer by comparing my vision with your vision. My vision is in place, and yours has already taken effect at a time when you were the Minister of the Interior, so that we will understand the concept of a vision more fully. I've already presented my entire vision to you at the hearing session, and it's been over an hour. There is also no time for me to say this completely to you today, but it is interesting that you have been most disturbed by the part where I said that the Minister must not, under any circumstances, interfere with the operational work of the police. That's when you said the minister could know everything. And here, Mr. Gorenak, my vision differs from your vision. Because the Minister is a politician, and while I am acting as Minister of the Interior, I will consistently respect the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which crystal clears the relationship between the Ministry and the police and between the Minister and the Director-General of the Police. You're also always warming up the Venus-Fank comparison, and now you're tying it to a vision that you're on a higher level. More than Mr Fank, you have been dealing with Mr Veneiger all the time, which you have actually proposed to the Government as the Director General of Police. You're even going so far as to write me written questions that you're performing as a taxpayer, and you're objecting to his retirement, which was paid to him in accordance with the law, so legally, on the basis of the Law on the Organization and the Work of the Police. You're writing me written questions and you're objecting to your resignation. And this law was passed during your government or your ministry. On the other hand, I don't understand you because you don't object to the selection of the new Director-General. We both agree that Mr Funk is a top expert and also a man who enjoys a great degree of respect in the police. And as you know, as I have already said, when I spoke to the public about my decision to replace the Director General of Police, Mr Stanislav Veneiger and I broke up on a high professional level. We agreed that we would not comment on the exchange in public, which Mr Veniger was also holding, and so was I. This article, which you are saying, I regret that I have not yet read this article. A journalist isn't a lawyer either, and we have to clear these terms because I'm very surprised that you don't separate these concepts from each other at the beginning. That is why I think it is wrong for you to expose Mr Veniger now that he is no longer in office, because I do not think that this is worthy of a former uniformed officer, and I cannot agree with this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u221	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Let's do it in order. Written questions or oral questions are within the domain of the Member who asks them; you are the person who has to answer them. What I am writing on the questions sent, and what the President of the National Assembly is also judging, who is sending the matter to you or rejects me; so we have cleared this up. Secondly, the Minister may or may not know, said the Constitutional Court. Perhaps you, as a lawyer, respect the Constitutional Court, at least I believe you respect it. This is what is written in 2002 in a decision of the Constitutional Court, which made this very clear; and I told you to read it. I have repeatedly stressed that the good Minister of the Interior must know everything that is going on in the police. Clearly, he needs to know. Then there are limits to the law; for I wrote the law myself, but of course I know what I wrote. We need to know that. I do not object to the expulsion, I do not object, even though it was introduced by the Ministry of Law and the Ministry of Administration – and not by the Ministry of the Interior, which I led, we need to know. But I object to the way you do it. You break it off in October from some of the moves I don't know, but if he went on his own in January, what he offered you physically, there wouldn't be any of those costs. I, by the way, didn't change the director of the police at all, so there was no cost either. As far as "a lawyer" is concerned, let's be serious. I think you need to be serious as Minister of the Interior. If I ask a question on Friday, the reporter answers me on Monday and robs the former chief of police, robs me and tells me how you are right; then it is clear that this has grown on the grass between you and the journalist. Of course, I was talking about my lawyer in a bunch of connoisseurs. You give me things to argue, not a reporter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u223	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u224	I don't think there's anything to be done here. And I'm not going to go into your conjecture either, because they're completely unverified. I appeal to you again to leave Mr Stanislav Veneiger alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u225	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u226	I propose a debate on the Minister's response, because that really wasn't the answer. You have 5 minutes and 3 minutes and you can answer, and that is not the answer – I will not go down to that level and so on. With your decisions, Madam Minister, you have spent 70,000 euros; this is because of 3 months. But you have this legal right, of course it's not an obvious matter. But get in front of the camera and say, "Yeah, that's what I did. That wasn't good. The President, please let's discuss this. However, I believe that if this debate is voted on, it will take about a month and the Minister will be able to prepare to confront me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u227	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27 January 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now he's gonna be a magician. Branislav Rajić, SMC, asked the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. To dean jedan, which is an excusable percentage. So I ask him to say whether he wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u228	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Not just me, the citizens of Maribor would also like an oral answer. For the first section of the so-called Maribor Southern Carnivore, this has been adopted since the conclusion of the Western Carnivore at the Rondo with the Strelik Road to the Kardel Road and the documentation has been adjusted. Most of the needed land has already been bought. For the remaining part of the southern road, from Kardeljevo to the link to the motorway cross, a State spatial plan has not yet been adopted, as none of the proposed variants of the route was acceptable to the competent ministries. In 2012, a public study of variants for the construction of the Western Maribor Oblast was carried out. Option 1 was chosen as the most favourable. Since the selected route would occupy 43 hectares of agricultural land, the Ministry of Agriculture did not give consent to the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. However, it proposed a modified variant 2, which, by contrast, occupys fewer agricultural land, but is inadequate because the traffic on the western bypass is illogically and in the long term tow to the eastern part of the city and then binds it to an existing highway. As such, neither the city nor the profession supports it. In order to find a solution acceptable to the Ministry of Agriculture, the variant 1 route was optimized in a way that minimised its intervention in agricultural land. The holding of agricultural land is thus reduced from 43 to 25 hectares. This option has the support of city authorities, professions and local communities. The impossibility of traffic conditions due to the construction of the southern outskirts of Maribor has led in the towns of Razvanje, Lower and Upper Radvanje, Nova Vas, Students and Pecra to such an extent that it is possible to expect concrete forms of expression of dissatisfaction, as well as the initiation of procedures for compensation for excessive noise. My question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food is: Are you prepared at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to examine in a short time the optimised version of the 1st Maribor Southern Railways, after which the acquisition of agricultural land will be reduced from 43 to 25 hectares; and in view of the more favourable balance of agricultural land holdings, are you prepared to respond positively to it? This would create the conditions for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to reconvene the spatial conference and, in an appropriate process, adopt a state spatial plan for the construction of the necessary Maribor Southern Carnivore. The Ministry of Agriculture's concern is fully understandable, yet we must be aware that the establishment of spatial interventions of state importance, such as road transport around the second largest city in the country, inviolability [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u229	I will place your question on the next regular meeting of the National Assembly, if you wish. Now it's mag. Bojana Muršič, SD, asks the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u230	Thank you very much, President. Ministers, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, very nice greetings. I am asking the Minister of Health the following question. At the end of last year, the Department of Health Insurance announced that it intended to start with 1. 1. 2015 implement a white guide to send your patient's private doctor to a specialist in the public health system under the same conditions as with a green guide. Such an intention met with sharp opposition, making it possible for the Director-General of the Health Insurance Institute to wait until the introduction of the white passport. In the view of some who express concerns about the proposal, such a system would allow waiting species to be skipped. The movement to preserve and improve public health has sent a protest letter to several addresses expressing their opposition and pointing out that the white passengers provided for by the Health Services Regulation are subject to compulsory insurance. They also point out that the general public has learned about this from the media and that no consensus has been reached to implement such a measure. The protest letter also states, inter alia, that public and private health care will be more intertwined with this regulation, and that it is a matter of decoupling money from the public health treasury. However, they fear that future individuals without a licence may be selected by doctors, and they point to discrimination between the poor and the rich. We have committed coalition partners in the Coalition Treaty to strengthen public health and to promote a clearer border between public and private health activities and to strengthen the public health system in a way that will ensure that all insured persons have equal opportunities for health care. On the basis of all the above and with regard to all the warnings and fears that arise, I ask you: What is the Ministry's position on the introduction of a white passport? When can we expect to begin the consideration of the new proposal of the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Health Action Act, which we expect to make more clear the difference between public and private? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u231	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u232	Mr President, the other Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word and for your question. Indeed, as the Member State has found in December, the Health Insurance Office issued instructions on how private persons should travel to public health checks and on the rules which these so-called white guides should contain. However, it is necessary to go a little further back to history and to say that in 1998 the Constitutional Court, by its decision, repealed Article 257 of the Compulsory Health Insurance Regulation; in the work relating to the refusal of reimbursement of the costs of health services incurred on the basis of a travel order issued in the infirmary. The Constitutional Court’s decision was based on the fact that an insured person, by choosing a personal physician outside a public network for which the service paid the full price, despite the paid contributions of compulsory health insurance, cannot be punished by the fact that he still has to pay in full the services of all other health workers he needs in his situation. The institution, as an insurance company, is obliged to forgive the free choice of a doctor and health care institution at all levels of health care. Therefore, the Health Insurance Office, following the issuance of the decision to the operators, has already explained several times that, pursuant to this Decision, an insured person who applies services to a private operator who does not have a health insurance contract, may be referred to a public health insurance doctor and, on the basis of this referral, applies health services under the same conditions as if he were applying them on the basis of a contract of a so-called green one that we all know. At the same time, it also explained to the operators which data are essential for the treatment of such an insured person with a public operator. The situation in practice is therefore not new. The possibility of exercising compulsory health insurance rights on the basis of a referral from a private operator to a public health network, therefore, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, exists from, I will say, a long time ago in 1998. However, in practice, it was carried out unevenly. The introduction of the so-called White Notice does not therefore introduce different rules of conduct, but rather, in the view of the Institute, enables more uniform treatment of insured persons. As you rightly mentioned, the Office of Health Insurance is at its meeting of the Assembly in December 2014, at which some pointed out that the white passenger system could also mean legalisation of the skipping of waiting types, and on the basis of this debate at the Assembly, the Institute decided to discuss this first the Management Board of the Institute, take a position on this and then discuss it again at the Assembly. The latest information from the Management Board of the Office is that it will be decided once again to discuss the white passenger again in 3 months. And now the answer to another question. As you have rightly stated, in accordance with the coalition agreement, the programme also lists the Health and Health Insurance Act as well as the preparation of the Health Act. Let me say that the preparation of the Health and Health Insurance Act is planned in 2015 and will be definitively adopted at the beginning of the year or in the first half of 2016, but is conditioned by a preliminary comprehensive expenditure analysis and an assessment of the effectiveness of the healthcare system and a resolution of the national programme. Immediately after this law we will also make a proposal [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] to the public. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u233	Ms Marjana Kotnik Porotat, Desus, will now raise a question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I refer the question to Mr Gaspersic, Minister of Infrastructure. Due to the uncertain deadline for completion of the reconstruction of the Ruše-Pustava regional road, I ask you, Mr. Minister: When will the contracting authority of the part, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, hereinafter referred to as the DRSC, ensure that the contractor completes the investment and thus prevents further damage to the already built infrastructure? To make it easier to understand, I quote the following. In May 2011, the investor and the holder of the DRSC project and the Municipality of Ruše, as co-financing partner, entered into a co-financing agreement on the regulation of the second stage of the regional road Ruše-Pustava through the village of Ruše. The contract concluded in March 2012 between the contractor, the Road Company Ptuj, the co-financing company Ruša Municipality and the DRC contracting authorities sets out the works to be carried out by the contractor, the value of the contract works of some more than EUR million, the deadline for the completion of works to be 31 May 2013 and so on, so that I do not quote everything. Later, four annexes were signed to this contract, with which the contract price was changing and the deadline for completion of works which, of course, had moved to the future, and the construction project was still not completed. Unfinished investment causes irreparable damage in the work already done, as implants occur, caves and water valves cover and so on. The municipality of infrastructure construction cannot surrender its purpose, which means that the municipality cannot provide connections to the new infrastructure. So I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, if you could answer: When can we expect this investment to continue and close? Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u235	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Member! I'm going to answer this question a little bit complicated. Indeed, the history of this project is a little more complex. All are aware that due to limited budgetary resources we were also forced to stop construction work in December 2014 on this project. For this project we concluded an annex at the end of 2013 to extend the construction deadline until 30 May 2014. By the end of that period, the appropriations for the completion and fulfilment of the contractual obligations were then not allocated to the budget. As a result, we prepared a new annex to extend the deadline by the end of 2014, but unfortunately the Municipality of Ruše did not sign it as co-financing. That's the way of day one. 6. In 2014, the contractual period following the contract and the annex unfortunately expired. Otherwise, the facility could be completed by the deadline of 30. 11. In 2013, if it were not for the request of the co-funder, this is the Ruše Municipality, which was also the contracting authority of the project solutions, during the construction of changes in the regulation of the municipal infrastructure. The whole problem was explained to the congregation on several occasions and also explained in writing. In October 2014, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with a new budget rebalancing, provided funds to complete certain necessary already stopped works on signed contracts and annexes. If the Municipality of Ruše signed an annex in May 2014, this investment project could be fully completed by last year, i.e. at the end of 2014. In this case, however, the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate, as a contracting authority, must now implement a new call when the funds in the 2015 budget are provided, provided that they can be provided, of course. Following the expiry of the contract, a little less than €335 000 should be provided for the completion of these works. However, the conclusion of this Treaty will only be possible once the 2015 budget balance is adopted and in force and if the financial conditions with the 2015 budget rebalancing permit this, all works can be completed in the framework of the end of June next year. So the story, as it were, is complicated. The Treaty is not currently in force if the funds allow it in the balance sheet, a new call for proposals will have to be made and then these works will be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u237	Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u238	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I expect things to go so far that we can really come, as you just said, to the conclusion of these works and that the matter will be over. But there were circumstances that led to all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u239	Yeah. I will not give my word to the Minister, nor will I warn you. I should give you my word first, but fine. We have thus concluded the first round of questions for Members and Members. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The first question will be raised by Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance, Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u240	Thank you very much. A nice greeting after all these hard hours again! My question concerns the environmental agency or, above all, the report it submitted on noise in Europe, since it notes that more than 125 million Europeans suffer from excessive noise in 2014. This noise is caused by the following factors: road traffic, followed by railways, airports and industry. Why am I bringing this up? In particular, because the difference between countries in Europe is very great. The largest noise contaminants are Belgium, Denmark, Malta and the Netherlands. Among the polluters who have this noise at the very least are Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and among them Slovenia. What is important to you in my question, Minister, is that, in 2013, on the proposal of your predecessor, Minister Dejan Židan, who then covered this area, we adopted a law on the basis of Directive 2002/49/EC, which regulates noise, which is defined as unwanted or harmful external sound. What matters most to me in this matter is that we all know that we made a big mistake back then. Today, I wonder who is really responsible for this, but the Minister who proposed it, the National Assembly which adopted it, or those who framed the Minister, I am talking about ARSO or anyone else. A final question to be addressed to you, but I'll give it to you. Indeed, the amendment to this 94th article meant that we no longer have exceptions to noise, namely, the construction of buildings. Remember, we recently had a problem that some major construction site was not authorized by this amended law. I am particularly interested because, under this law in the country, we can no longer have large construction pits, where the big investments that this government is forecast to make, and especially because this investment will not be possible precisely because of this change. I know this mistake has come to light. I also know that a regulation is being drawn up, which is in the debate, which you will probably be formally familiar with today. However, I am particularly interested in the following: Amendment to the regulation, which will follow, how will you take action to ensure that this Regulation is adopted by the Government and when it will be adopted by the Government? Secondly, more importantly, all investment claims will also be prevented. In addition: How do you plan to take action so that this does not happen again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u241	The Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Member, Mr. Möderndorfer! In fact, you have already pointed out in the question all the procedures that have been in the Ministry over the past two years. It is true, however, that the regulation on environmental noise indicators was prepared last September, and a public decomposition was put in place, in addition to those who want these thresholds to become higher, and those who do not want to be heard in the public debate were also advertised. Well, and precisely because of the explanations in terms of what is allowed and what is not, it turns out that the relevant professional basis has not been developed. It is noted that the limits are largely different between countries, so it is not possible to rely on some EU regulation in the adoption of this Regulation. Therefore, if we have not already entered into an order for the relevant professional grounds, and, of course, the programme of the Ministry of Labour of the Government is also the adoption of this regulation, we have it in the timeline by mid-year. But it is not only what the Ministry is drawing up that is decisive, but it is certainly possible to expect very contradictory opinions in such cases in public debate and, of course, the law itself is a very large restriction. In fact, we note that these limit values and critical values, which are – these critical values are possible at the time of construction, of course – are still somewhat low for those who want to do business or to achieve this speed in construction or to provide themselves with economic construction. And in this part, I don't think there can be a change in such a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u243	Request for a reply, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u244	You haven't answered one question at the end. How will you act to ensure that this does not happen again? In fact, every experience of course also involves certain certain security guards. Indeed, the Minister of State referred to the need for a directive to regulate a complex law and, of course, you know, when it is said, everything here is silent. In fact, we all know that's not the case. I'm especially interested in the following. You have seen recently that beyond Bejigrad, for example, a refugee stadium cannot be built, that we have a failed Emonika project, which will not receive such permission either. And I am interested in the fact that this Regulation will not be adopted in due course: How can investors come to such projects because I believe they stand? Secondly, which is more important to me, ARSO has issued decisions for projects that are now simply no longer being issued because of the environmental report. That is why I am interested in knowing how such proposals for laws arise: Who in ARSO made such a proposal, which is really to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia? This should be eliminated in the witness's presence. I'm talking about these guards. Eliminate in the sense that he can no longer perform this work and propose illegal or harmful processes in the National Assembly. And I'm sorry, Minister, but this is now under your jurisdiction, but I know you inherited all this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u245	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u246	Dear Member, I am not sure that these statements are credible in the sense that someone from ARSO has proposed something. I am simply saying this because of the many working processes that are now taking place at the Ministry and in the transposition procedures for directives, the transposition of directives, of course, ARSO does not do so. But if you do, I'd say what kind of person in mind is gonna take it to tell me, and then I'll make an appropriate urchin. In particular, the environment is one of those goods that has been particularly protected in recent years by many NGOs. Their activity, their work, their takeover not only in the case of noise, of course, is a number of other cases, we regularly deal with and listen to at the Ministry. Of course, it is still possible for Members to decide on the basis of your political will. Somehow, however, the Ministry should be prevented from meeting these NGOs, taking into account their comments to a lesser or higher extent, but of course it is the responsibility of our ministry. So, in order to prevent further excesses, I agree with you, indeed, there are a number of regulations in our ministry where a stricter rule has been laid down in the adoption of the regulation under the European acquis. We will meet with these regulations during work in the first half of the work. I also regret that this is so much and that, in fact, the business of many organisations – in this case, when we talk about noise – is so difficult for construction operators. This fact, we are aware of this problem and will try not only in this area but in many areas to address it. Of course, it is in everyday work, I would say, in terms of the adoption of acts then also the National Assembly, who, at the final stage in the law-making phase, adopts regulations. And I'm sorry that this mistake happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u247	Now it's dr. Franc Trček, the United Left, asked the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! At the previous regular meeting of the National Assembly, I asked the President of the Government if he was aware of the growing differences in quality of life between the regions of Slovenia. I was talking about how some fact where you're staying affects your quality of life. Today, a local problem from a nearby environment would tell me an example of emergency medical care in so-called Unit B, the largest in Slovenia, covering the population of the municipalities and region of Makola, Oplotnica, Poljčane and Slovenska Bistrica. Why? Because this problem shows that the location of your stay can literally affect whether you survive or not. The financing of emergency medical care is regulated at national level, the system of units A, B, C is viable. In a specific case, the largest unit in Slovenia, which covers the area all the way to the Russian cabin in Pohorje, has a situation of savings that, when the emergency medical unit goes on the ground, the doors of the healthcare home are closed because they have only one doctor recognised, who is on the ground at the same time and on duty at the health centre, one medical technician, a ambulance driver and a ambulance driver, who is also a medical technician. Apparently, the municipalities don't have any more money to pay, so I'll say paying for the superstandard, another medical technician. This is a problem they have been failing to point out there since 2010. The Ministry advises them to wait until autumn when a network of EMTs is established. Dear assembly, it is clear to you that the life-threatening cannot wait until September or October this year, because, I quote, "the possibility of a successful recovery...", I quote the head of this emergency medical service in Slovenia, Mrs Alenko Antolinc Košak "... decreases 10% every minute." Madam Minister, I ask you: What are you going to do immediately to ensure that these approximately 35,000 people are no longer third-class citizens and citizens with systemicly endangered lives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u249	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u250	Thank you for asking. Well, hello again, everyone! I must say that I am very pleased with your questions, because this issue also proves that the reorganisation of the emergency medical service in Slovenia is essential and that the current regime, as you said before, is obsolete and survive. However, this does not mean that this aspect of life would be at risk. As you probably know, in Slovenia we build 9 emergency centres or 10. One centre has already been built and is already in its function, this is in Brežice. 9 we will complete them this year and together with the so-called dispatch centre, which we have been talking about in Slovenia for the past 20 years and which is a major flaw in the organisation of emergency medical care, we will be able to establish and activate in this year. The working group I appointed to prepare the analysis, the basis of the data and which is preparing the new regulation will be adopted in March this year and will be fully regulated by the new organisation and financing of emergency medical assistance. Let me say it's being prepared by recognized experts from practice. And let me mention that it was the doctor you mentioned that was also a member of this working group, who, with her experience, also helped to organise and organise this assistance in the future. Let me add that we will set up a dispatcher's service at the same time. Why? Because this service or dispatch centre is so important, it will ensure that by means of a uniform review of the position of emergency ambulances on one screen in one place so that in the event of an emergency medical assistance call it will be possible to call the ambulance and the team closest to the person in need. In this dispatch centre, a doctor and a graduate nurse will be available to answer questions and will be able to assess from the first information what help a patient needs on the ground and therefore send the right vehicle and properly trained team to do so. The Ministry of Health is aware of the situation in Slovenska Bistrica and, according to our information, given that Mrs Doctor has also participated in this team, is one of the better organisations of emergency medical care in this country. I can assure you from this city that by the end of this year, this organisation will improve the situation throughout Slovenia, and, of course, in Slovenia's Bistrica, that this service will be strengthened, a triage service will be carried out, where patients will be deployed according to their triage category, which means that the patient's health condition is difficult. Patients who are at risk of life will be treated immediately. Those who can wait will, of course, be decided by the expert. In the new system, it will not be possible for the patient to come to a closed door, such as a healthcare home, because the general doctor may be somewhere at the site of the accident and at another emergency visit, because there will always be a health worker who will take care of the patient and his triage. Therefore, a well-organised ambulance network with dispatch service will provide us with better access times for life-threatening patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u251	The request to complete the response is made by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u252	Thanks for the answer. I'm glad this is all going to happen, but it seems to me that you've somehow overheared one essential part of my question. By the end of this year. What about in the meantime? In the meantime, however, this door will be closed at home. I'm talking about hiring one medical technician, and sometimes we joked about a brother or a nurse, if this is going on for the rest of the year, we're probably talking about a gross circus of 20, say, 25 thousand euros. What will happen, Madam Minister, if the case happens to you like it does in Brežica? You will be objectively responsible for someone's death. And there's another matter. Actually, two things. One thing, you're talking about nine emergency centres, now I don't know whether the media is lying or not – I've only got 24 hours, I can't check everything on the ground with the informants – it says, yeah, the centre in Brežica has started to work, but it doesn't work completely, because they haven't adopted the relevant regulations yet. I mean, these centers didn't fall out of a kinder egg because they knew they'd be built. Why there are no proper regulations yet, you probably inherited it, but I don't know, lock people in a basement for 14 days, and let them write down, I'll say, somehow appropriate regulations. I hope that you will also save on our side the emergency helicopter rescue that we still do not have, even though we are paying, I will say the same benefits as on this side of Troy, where they have an emergency helicopter rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u253	The Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. This is not true that there are no rules governing emergency medical care. They shall apply all existing rules and practices. I am talking about a comprehensive overhaul and reorganisation of emergency medical care after all 10 emergency centres are placed in their function, together with a dispatcher centre that will connect all these 10 emergency centres in a single way. And the fact that the doors of the healthcare home in Slovenska Bistrica, under the assurance of Mrs Alenka Antolinc Košat, who was in the working group, are not accurate or cannot happen because the rules, present rules, are also applicable to emergency medical care and on-call services are provided in all health homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u255	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u256	Yeah, I'm gonna have to abuse him a little. Now I don't know. Someone's lying. I'm going to check with the doctor myself, who I know personally, and I'm going to check with Dinner, our local diary, and I hope they don't lie, if they lie, I'm going to be very dismayed. Of course, I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a discussion on this subject, and I hope that we will vote on it, and I hope, after all, that it is in the interest of the coalition that people do not die because of such bureaucratic Islamistry in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u257	Since you have made a proposal in force, this is not an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, so your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27 January 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now Dr. Vinko Gorenak, SDS, will ask the Minister of Defence Mr. Janko Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Time is precious, I'll be very short, Minister, I've been asking questions about the political balance of the defence inspectorate. In fact, the organs in the composition are just so that, I'll say, they're independent of working equally, properly, in accordance with the laws. I was wondering: How's the Defense Inspectorate? In fact, the inspector punished Mr Dežman, who paid the penalty for carrying some kind of sign from the Territorial Defence, which is all right and lawful. And I asked how it was with the Dražgoš, and there we see even the armory: Is the inspector doing anything there, too? I wrote it, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u259	Mr Janko Weber, Minister for Defence, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u260	President, thank you for your word and also thank you for the question Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Of course, if we are correct, the question raised in writing is somewhat different. You have asked three questions, but in the light of your question you have raised, I can say that the inspectorate is a completely independent body and works in accordance with the legislation for which it is responsible, which is also organised. There is no difference whether this, I don't know, someone who has violated the law is involved, let's say, at a meeting organised by one political party or another, this is by no means criteria. Thus, the criterion of the Defence Inspectorate is the actual respect for the legislation and also the protection of the reputation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. On the basis of the application, which was also transmitted in the case of Mr Dežman, he examined all the actual situation or situation found and also handed down the appropriate penalty. With regard to the Dražgoš you mentioned, the application also came, on the basis of a letter addressed by Mr Dežman to the Ministry or to the Inspectorate, and it is also under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u261	Request to complete Dr. Vinko Gorenak's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I'm actually happy with what you said when the matter is under consideration. But next month, I'll ask you what the results are. By saying it in advance. And I'm going to give you one application because you have one right here, and consider it an application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u263	Otherwise, this is not in accordance with Procedural Yes, it is not a supplement. [[…]] Okay. Let's move on. Mr Daniel Krivec, SDS, will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A nice welcome to the ministerial team, especially to Minister Gasperšić and all the colleagues and colleagues you insist on! I am asking the Minister about the Regulation on Signs of Nationality, Registration and Other Labels on Civil Aircraft, which was adopted and which entered into force. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is a rather pressing matter which has arisen by the enforcement of this Regulation, which the Ministry has also been alerted to in previous letters and in the preparation of this Regulation. The Ministry also replied that the preparation of this Regulation would take account of these comments made by interested users, particularly on paragliding and gliding. I want to know: How will the Minister resolve this problem, since this new obligation to register these vessels is in force and it must also be said that no European State has introduced or implemented such a requirement, which the Ministry has also been alerted to by an international organisation dealing with free flight by aircraft? This Directive, or this Regulation, to which the Ministry refers, also has no basis in the European Directives. In my humble opinion, it is also very difficult to find support in the aviation law. However, it is a rather unpleasant thing, which mainly affects the areas in which this activity takes place. Above all, we're talking about paratroopers and dragons. I have before me a calculation which speaks for the Court of Justice about the loss of the circus of a million and a half euros from the tourist flow by these guests, as well as for the Goriška region of the circus million, not to mention other regions of Slovenia. This is because of one rule on which someone on board insists stubbornly despite the fact that there is virtually no support in European regulation. As I say, the Aviation Act, which was adopted in 2010, does not have any basis, it refers to Article 78, paragraph 17, where it refers to that any aircraft that can fly can be kept in the atmosphere due to an air reaction. All other dictions do not support this rule. That's why I'm asking the minister: What will he do?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u265	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u266	Thank you, President, for your word. Mr Daniel Krivec, honourable Member, thank you also for the question raised. It is true, as you say, that this obligation is somehow not justified by any European regulations or directives, but, in the opinion of our professional services, it represents, is justified by the law itself, which speaks of mandatory aircraft registration, as you have already mentioned. To this end, the Ministry of Infrastructure issued last year's Regulation on signs of nationality of registration and other markings on civilian aircraft. This Regulation also provides, inter alia, for the identification of nationality and registration marks to be affixed to the ship’s dragon and to the ship’s parachute. By establishing these records, we want to ensure access to the relevant data on the ownership of the aircraft, as control over the implementation of flight operations with these aircraft will be easier and consequently more effective. In our view, however, surveillance is a key factor in improving aviation safety when flying with sailplanes and sailing dragons, as the number of accidents in the sailing aircraft category has increased dramatically in recent years. In the past, we have held a constructive meeting with representatives of the Aviation Union of Slovenia and the Association for the Free Flight of Slovenia, in my opinion, at which we discussed this issue, what it actually means for its implementation. And at this meeting, we have proposed two options for resolving the circumstances that have arisen, which have sparked a lot of opposition in the fallen and dragon communities. Thus, we will take a decision at the Ministry in the coming days to either amend the rules in the part of the transitional provisions and extend the deadline for the implementation of this Regulation by the end of this year. During this time, the Aviation Union of Slovenia will properly prepare and establish records of aircraft and equipment, I am now talking about the record, not more so that the label on the devices will be required. The second option is to repeal the Regulation in its entirety, provided that the Aviation Union of Slovenia and the Free Flight Union present the reasons for such a level of accidents with paragliding and sailing dragons in Slovenia as soon as possible in recent years. We would like to see an expert explanation as to where the causes of the accidents are concerned, or we want to make sure that the reasons are not in the technical condition of the aircraft. In our opinion, the Aviation Union of Slovenia should actively participate in the analysis of the number of accidents, their causes, propose measures to address the causes and also propose a method of controlling the technical integrity of these devices. In short, these are the things you'd like to settle. And, as we say, in the coming days, we will decide, in cooperation with the airline, how we will handle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u267	Request for complete reply, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u268	Thank you for that part of the answer. Otherwise, I expected a more concrete commitment from the ministry or the minister to define itself until this stupid rule, no. I hope you've read it. I took a look at it myself, and I looked at the law once again, but if, on the basis of what they wrote to you, you demand this implementation, that means that all foreigners who come to Slovenia must register their parachute, label this fallen state code, which is not required by any country in the European Union and many other countries in the world. Where people will put some marking on the parachute, I mean, it's a nonsense. However, if you look at the rulebook and those tables that you wrote, where it didn't even fall, it is said that the annex and the rulebook do not go together. On the other hand, if you refer to the Aviation Act, which refers to aircraft and has some exceptions, if you are applying the markings, then you must also enforce all other requirements of the law. How can experts prepare this for you, just one piece, and refer to the law where the requirements for communication equipment are. How will you meet the requirement for aircraft documents? Where are they gonna put that in the fall? That's really the butch in this story. And you're somehow responsible and you have to sort it out. Otherwise, I believe that all these areas where income is going to fall will be just as we all say that some economic operators need to be encouraged as much as possible, so that we can somehow obtain foreign investment or tourists' visits and so on. Someone will sue the country because it has adopted such a stupid rule that we do not now have a specific segment of tourists in our area. I expect you to withdraw this rule within one month and repeal it. Otherwise, we will act in a different way, because it is in fact not in accordance with the European directives or the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u269	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u270	Thank you very much. As it is said, a decision on how to proceed with the removal or amendment of this Regulation will be taken in the coming days. Once again, I would like to point out that we want to ensure the creation of a record, and we will do so in a way that is also comparable to those in European countries, by establishing some traceability on who owns any aircraft. Indeed, these data are available for the producers of falls and dragons and we therefore want to establish these records. However, we are likely to deviate from the fact that these markings and registration marks are being affixed to these aircraft devices themselves. For as you said, the aliens will not do this and then it would be pointless to ask our airmen to do so. In short, I am counting on the Aviation Union of Slovenia and the Free Flight Union to reach an appropriate agreement on how we will properly and appropriately manage this area in a less bureaucratic manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u271	Ms Janja Sluga, SMC, will now ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u272	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, ministers, fellow Members! Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs. Irena Majcen, in the light of the social problem of Zasavje, we are all familiar with it, in the light of the liquidation process at the Termoelectrica Trbovlje, there is increasing unemployment in the whole of Zasavje, and especially in the municipality of Trbovlje, so I ask: How far are the procedures for the transfer of water management concessions to hydroelectric power plants in Central Savi, Is the contract ready? How fast would it be signed? During what time can we expect shifts in the construction of hydro power plants in the Central Sava, which could offer Zasavci as many jobs as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u273	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u274	Mr President, thank you for saying so! Dear Member, Mrs. Janja Sluga! The question you have asked me is very much about the one that already has a concession decision. The signing of the concession contract has not yet taken place, which means that in the event of a transfer of the concession, both for the role of the concession to which the concession was awarded and of the one that might have taken over it must be addressed to the Ministry. But if I wasn't now, I'd say this dry-cleaning answer, I'd say a few things, but if there was anything, then we could work it out. In fact, a concession for the use of water has been granted to the Slovenian power plants since 2005 for the Central Sava area due to the use of energy potential. The concession was awarded by a decision without invitation to tender to an existing concession holder on the part of the water body of the upper Sava – that was then this Holding of Slovenian power plants – on the basis of his initiative to increase the volume of production electricity on the Sava River. The Regulation was issued in 2004 and the Decision 2005 and the concession contract has not yet been concluded, which is why the concession relationship has not yet been fully concluded. Now, this concession contract also, of course, lays down obligations, either by chance or by concessionaires, which are, of course, produced from the municipalities located in the area. Thus, the concession contract concluded by the concessionaire, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the concessionaire, was already fully coordinated with the concessionaire at the end of 2015. The text of the concession contract has already been inter-resourced with all departments, except the Ministry of Finance and Coordination, stopped in January 2014, as it was found that there was insufficient funding to build the necessary road infrastructure, namely the Zidani Bridge-Hrastnik connecting road, which was also conditioned by local communities. Agreement on cooperation and mutual rights and obligations for the construction of the Suhadol hydroelectric power plant, Trbovlje hydroelectric power plant and Renke hydroelectric power plant, which is the accompanying document for the concession granted to local communities. It is concluded by the Government, concessionary and local communities, within the area of the first five hydroelectric plants to be built, to satisfy the demands of local communities that they have the same position as the local communities in the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, which are based on a specific law with a view to being regulated by a specific arrangement through installation, construction and operation of hydroelectric related content. On the other hand, the conclusion of the concession contract did not continue because the concessionaire stated that, in view of the current situation when the Natura 2000 sites are located in the Central Sava to Kresnic, where the presence of the sultar should be, the State cannot guarantee the concessionaire that it will be able to build a chain of ten hydroelectric power plants, but it is highly likely that other technologies will have to be used and that it will not be possible to build all ten hydropower plants. So that part of this transfer of concession, as I said, needs to be addressed from both sides at the Ministry, we will focus intensively on this task if it is to be entrusted to us. When we have, I would say, that concessionaire who might have joined the construction of hydropower plants is, of course, all again dependent on him, but if he takes an intensive approach to the request for the implementation of the State Spatial Plan, if he also provides funds for the preparation of the investment documentation, then, I would say, this acceptance of the DNA can be very short within a year, but in a year and a half, it is also real in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u275	Request for a reply from Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u276	I also have here a document, obtained by the OREZ, which states that a decision has been taken at the OREZ meeting already in 2012 by the HSE Zavek mayors, as well as by the SRES, in which they have already agreed or reached some agreement on the transfer of this concession. In fact, this does not mean that there was no initiative at the Ministry on their part. This initiative was already in 2012. I would also like to add to my question, as you know, a special law has been passed for hydroelectric power plants in the lower Sava, and I am interested: What is your opinion, would it not also make sense for hydropower plants in the Central Sava to adopt a special independent law that would allow the project to be carried out for a longer period of time, and it would also continue four years after the government has replaced itself, and then this would no longer be an obstacle to such a project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u277	The Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u278	Thank you. I can honestly admit that I don't know what kind of arrangement you have. In fact, there was something at our Ministry about this transfer of concession, so I cannot explain to myself that I would not have the right information that this role, as it must be – I said, must be given by the concessionaire, must agree with the transfer of the concession and must be some new concessionaire who would be willing to take over – no such application is officially available to us. As far as the drafting of legislation is concerned, of course, it is a matter of reflection, of decision. However, in terms of making investments, of course, there are now somewhat different times than when the Law on the Lower Savi was adopted. However, there is nothing wrong with the adoption of a law to implement these investments. I agree that for these areas Trbovlje, Hrastnik, Zagorje is urgently accelerated to prepare some new employment opportunities. Hydropower plants are a great opportunity in the development of places, even the environment would be least affected, but when looking for an appropriate investor, it is necessary to ensure that not only the transfer of concessions comes, but that an investor is, of course, able to invest in projects in terms of the adoption of State spatial plans. Here I think it is necessary to connect both with the Ministry of Infrastructure and, of course, further in the whole government, because the state spatial plans are, of course, confirmed by the Government at the final stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u279	Mr Jan Mahnic, SDS, will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u280	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I remember December 19, 2014, when we had our regular December meeting of the National Assembly. It was Friday. And we discussed the amendment of the Penal Code, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have prepared a new 111.a. article which, following United Nations resolution 2178, criminalises acts in relation to foreign terrorist fighters, financing, departure to the battlefield, recruitment and so on. At that time, the coalition rejected this proposal; in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we warned about what the Islamic State meant to Europe. More than 3 thousand 500 warriors are already there, some have already begun to return. We have warned about what is going to happen in all European cities, but some of you were just looking at it with amazement, some of you were wondering that we probably don't know what we're talking about. And what happened? There was a terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo on 7 January 2015. And things have changed since then. Countries are speeding up the preparation of new legislation, preparing sharper measures. For Belgium, for example, measures include strengthening the fight against radicalisation in prisons, explicitly placing travel abroad for terrorist purposes as a crime and extending the set of reasons why a person can be deprived of Belgian citizenship or temporarily confiscated from a passport. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has also advocated sharper measures, tightening the travel ban for suspected jihadists, and will soon tighten the penalties for financing terrorism. In Austria, measures, prohibitions, or translation of the Koran, explicitly prohibited all minor travel from the country, if not approved by parents, prevented funding and frozen bank accounts of certain communities or societies and so on. And I wonder where Slovenia is. The government seems to believe that the ruling coalitions are sufficient with the 2008 Penal Code, while other countries are incriminating all other acts. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: Which article incriminates the preparatory actions and where is the instigation? Does the police have powers under the current criminal code to prevent Slovenian citizens from leaving the Islamic State? Does the police have the authority to prevent individuals from crossing the Slovenian territory who are sent to the Islamic State's battlefield? Does the police have the authority to prosecute those Slovenian citizens who return from the fighting in Syria and Iraq? What measures, if any, do you intend to take in the future? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u281	The Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Mahnic, I very much welcome your commitment to the issue of combating terrorism, but I note that anything you say can have negative consequences in relation to the perception of security in the country, so you must be very careful and also very professional when you talk about these issues. In fact, in this context, I am very interested, in view of your statements a few days ago, in what way do you think that I should not know that I am a member of the National Security Council, given that you are a Member and people are very sensitive to what you are saying. So given that you claim this, it means that you have not officially learned how many SNAV meetings were held last year from the start of the new government to today, who are members and whether these members were even present at the SNAV meetings. If you, honourable Member, had done your homework, you would quickly have found that so far three SNAV meetings had been held, that all the members were present, and that I, among those members, had been Minister of Home Affairs. Unless you may suspect that I'm suffering from memory disturbances. As far as your question today is concerned. I am very much following your statements, and I have also listened very carefully to what you have asked today, and I need to explain something to you. I have already explained to you at one of the closed meetings in the National Assembly the differences between criminal substantive law and procedural law. But I can see that I actually failed to interpret you exactly at the time. By amending the criminal law, you will not give the police new powers, given that criminal law governs criminal offences and sanctions, which means that it informs citizens of what is criminal and what sanctions are. I also have to tell you, according to what you said today, the police are not after people, the police are a detection body, the prosecution is the prosecution. With regard to and incriminating the enforcement of the offence of terrorism and related crimes, I am responsible to you that this is regulated in 108-111. the Article of the Penal Code. This is where terrorism, including international terrorism, is regulated by preparatory actions, assistance, while the imposition is regulated, honourable Member, in the general part of the Penal Code, also regulated in these articles by participation in terrorist and other criminal groups and by the very establishment and management of the criminal association. The fact is that the police have so far recorded three departures to crisis areas, i.e. Syria. On the basis of the data selected, the police could not confirm the suspicion that these persons actually fought on the side of terrorist organisations. While the police had information that they were leaving for Syria, they could not verify through foreign security forces what these citizens were actually doing in crisis areas. All of this information was presented to the prosecution, namely the specialized prosecutor's office, and the prosecution is, you know, probably that the legal mandate for directing the police is not given by the Prosecutor's Office, but by the Minister of the Interior, the prosecution has agreed that there is insufficient evidence to file criminal charges. Given that there was no evidence to confirm that these citizens actually participated actively in the fights in these crisis areas, i.e. with weapons in terrorist organisations. What I expect at this time is the intensive and in-depth joint work of the police and the prosecution. I expect from the Attorney General's Office as precise as possible and also specific answers to certain questions, particularly those that could have consequences for the work of the police. So everything in the light of the uniformity of criminal prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u283	Request for complete reply, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u284	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Now I must say that for the first two minutes I thought that I was the Minister and Mrs Member, because she did not answer any questions, but asked me on the basis of a press conference and so on. Now, let's say I overhear the arrogance in your tone, you've exceeded Mrs. Majcnov from the December session, that's what I have to tell you. As far as the National Security Council is concerned, I said you didn't know. Madam Minister, look at the Epilog show where the head said that the journalists asked you and that you said you didn't know that you were a member of the National Security Council. There's obviously been some mistake, and I'm following what I heard at the time, and they said that you don't even know that you're a member of the National Security Council. The consequence for citizens – as a student who now completes defence education, believe me that I know a security situation and that I know a lot about this area, although I am not a lawyer, like you, who then turns all things into legal expressions, but you know that where the problem is vocabulary, that means that the content is ok. Now interestingly, no, I don't know why we need then meetings of the Commission to control security and intelligence services, if you've just issued in the last minute all the classified information that Owl has. All the classified information we've heard on the Intelligence Commission you've just issued. I hope and I wish that you would not have any consequences in terms of any prosecution. The Director-General of Police, or then the Acting Officer, said that the police had no basis for action. On the one hand, there is a prosecution that claims, like you, that these acts are incriminated, and interestingly, that we have been incriminating for six years for the appearance of terrorism, which is brand new. But the police, who's in charge in the field of actually doing something, say they don't have the authority. Please, if you can explain this to me and answer the previous questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u285	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u286	As far as SNAV membership is concerned, honourable Member, I must say that I am very disappointed that you are collecting such sensitive information from commercial television. If nothing else, you could at least call me and make it clear with me whether I know whether I'm a member of the SNAV or not. That's the least you can do as a Member. As far as classified information is concerned, this information is not classified. If you remember the first press conference, at the time, I think that he was already the Acting Director-General of the Police, the police have already made it clear that going to foreign crisis hotspots is not equal to the legal signs of the crime of terrorism and related crimes and that the police are actually having trouble getting information on what is actually going on in Syria and on other crisis hotspots. It's not classified information, it's actually an operational obstacle to police work. So here in this segment you are wrong, this is what the police are always pointing out, and this is why it is also very important that the High Prosecutor's Office is more actively involved in this issue, given that the police are adopting guidelines, i.e. in concrete procedures, than the prosecution. Since you, as you say, are also very familiar with each other, you probably know that the evidentiary standard of reasons for suspicion has a certain guarantee function, which means, in relation to what I said at the outset, the court must immediately see how the police came to the information that led to the conclusion that these evidentiary standards were met. That's not classified information. It is right to note here in Parliament that the police have difficulties in proving, that is, obtaining information from these crisis areas. However, I can add here that for once the police, given that you also mentioned this in your question, for once does not have data on violent radicalisation and new departures or new recruits for departures to foreign battlefields. I believe that this has fully answered your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u287	Procedurally, Mr. Jean Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u288	Thank you again, President. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that we hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply or non-response of the Minister of Home Affairs. I think the problem is much broader. I've been waiting a long time to finally sit down so that everyone can come to the meeting, either the commission or any other body that would, any other committee that would put this point on the agenda. Unfortunately, I can't wait, because, as I said then, on the one hand, the prosecution says one thing, on the other hand, the police say the other, or as I hear now, everyone is saying the same thing. And that is that it is important that changes to the Penal Code are needed. Apparently, only one National Security Council meeting was needed, at which our President, Janez Janša, came, and you turned your position radically. I hope you'll invite him again, so that maybe you can get something a little clearer. Instead, Madam Minister, if you're here to tell me what I said, what I didn't say, why don't you focus more on your ministry. There are virtually no statements from you, no comments. I hope that's because you're very busy with your work. I believe we will soon see these fruits of your work in the field of the Penal Code, when I believe you will propose new amendments to 108.-111. the article, given that the coalition, as I have heard informally, is preparing to prepare its version or some corrections that would enable police to be better persecuted, including, of course, the prosecution in this area, because, given what is happening there, I am not afraid, but because no one thought to Paris about what is going to happen, the thing could escalate, the thing I fear will escalate, but as the old Slovenian proverb says: It is too late to ring the bell. Probably no one will remember here what I was saying, what you were saying when, God forbid, where the victims were counted, either here or in some other European place, given how many arrests have been made in the last fourteen days across Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u289	Two things. First. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27 January 2015, in the framework of the votes. Secondly, it is likely that it will be good if you continue on another committee and do not abuse both procedural questions on this matter, for a dialogue that was not linked to the specific issue raised here. Now we'll move on. The question will be raised by Violet Tomić of the United Left, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u290	Mr President, honourable ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! As you know, I am Belokranjica, as it is said, and I am very concerned about my region, which is far away for the Gorjans, increasingly indeveloped and increasingly forgotten. The 2011-2016 Pocolpé programme covers a total of EUR 287 million and the largest part is expected to be implemented in 2015 and 2016. According to the available information, only 8 % of this amount has been realised and most belong to the programme of the third development axis, which has not been used directly in White Krajina. It should also be pointed out that, according to available information, Bela Krajina has been a net payer in the state budget for a number of years at around EUR 110 million annually, receiving back about 85 million annually, contrary to all strategies and operational programmes that speak of coherent regional development, as Bela Krajina is one of the most vulnerable regions in the country. Unemployment has increased since the start of the programme, and the difference between average salaries in White Krajina and the remainder of the South East region and Slovenia as a whole has also increased. It is therefore necessary not only to implement the measures envisaged but also to extend the programme for an additional six years. A major problem is also the total non-response of MGRT, which takes up to eight months to prepare simple annual contracts. This leaves only four months for all activities to be carried out. The main problem is that the Pokolpja programme does not have a specific law on its implementation. Mr Minister, you too come from less developed places, and I think you are well aware of the importance of consistent and sustained support for the regions at risk. That's why I'm asking you: How do you plan to fully revive the Pocolpa 2011-2016 programme? Are you going to adopt a special law more binding on the implementation of this programme than was adopted for Pomurje? How will you ensure the purposeful use of resources and prevent them from leaking for other purposes? When will the invitation be for entrepreneurs from the Pokolpja programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u291	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u292	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Mrs Violet Tomić, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is responsible for the development of problem areas. First, I would like to give a brief answer to these questions and then explain some things. The full recovery of the 2011-2016 Pocolpa programme intends to be done in the following way: we anticipate the preparation of a common programme for all problems in the area; we want to eliminate all the unrealistic measures that have been in the programme so far and we have not been able to implement them. The transition from integral resources to the EU is very important, and we will start this year in particular. In the event that we fail to achieve our objectives, the programme will be extended. I'm just going to say how much we've done this year. Are we going to adopt a special law, such as Pomurje, more binding implementation of this programme? The answer is no. The coherent regional development law provides a systemic solution for all areas with high unemployment. The problem with the implementation of the programme is not the programme, but the lack of funds due to the financial and economic crisis. In our actions, we intend to make greater use of the potential of European funds for the economic part of these problem areas. Next question: How will you ensure that funds are spent on purpose and prevent this from leaking for other purposes? The Ministry of Economic Development is the coordinator of the implementation of the measures. In particular areas, financial resources shall be provided by the other ministries for their respective areas. There's no way we're getting the money out because he's not here. We have problems in other areas, but in this case I am responsiblely saying no. When will the invitation be for entrepreneurs from the Pokolpja programme? The call will take place in February 2015 if we provide funds in the budget. We have in the budget envisaged, integrative, indemnity of these funds. I believe that the government budget will go through this week and that this call will be implemented within the time limit I have mentioned. How will you ensure the purposeful use of resources and prevent leakage? That's what I said. And this invitation. I must say that, although I have had an informal conversation with the Director of the Development Agency for Poklopje, on Saturday, on one second occasion, we have agreed to visit Pokolpje and to discuss, above all, this topic, to agree on all measures in the field, in an area of importance, at the beginning of the year. Insidiousness is a problem. Hold what you said. Now, I can argue that the main reason is that it has been quite significant in the past period, I can say that there has been a press release of ministers at the Ministry and there has been no signature of contracts that are simple and signed in some normal circumstances in short time. The fact is that the Ministry's deadlines lasted eight months and that you had only four months on the ground to perform. I guarantee that this will no longer happen and that we will change this policy. And this year, it's just that if I say so quickly. I said earlier that this is a reality, in our opinion 17%, but the main programmes outside that infrastructure, which claims to have been used at other ends in Belokransk or in Dolenjska, are talking about the third development axis, but the following are. The Colossal Competitiveness Promotion Programme 2011-2016 of 20 million planned, implemented 42.3 % and 8.4 million for businesses, the return of paid contributions to the social security employer of a million pins half planned, implemented only 10 000, is incomprehensible and, nevertheless, 637 000 euros realised for investment relief. For sustainable development at the agriculture ministry 2 million 200 planned, a million 200 realized. And guarantees for interest rate subsidy for investments – 2.5 million and zero are planned. However, I have mentioned the investments in this infrastructure area. In short, we are aware of the problem, we will do everything we can to make things that have been mentioned as problematic change and to include European funds in economic investment in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u293	Request for a response, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u294	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for that. All I want to know is what you meant by saying that you would eliminate the unrealistic measures that these unrealistic measures are and that you would not adopt a special law like that for Pomurje. The 2011 government commitment was to take different account of the undeveloped region's tendering. Then you're saying you won't stop the funds from draining because there's no money. I do not accept this argument. It's money, but it's poorly arranged. Money needs to be found for emergency investments. Finance magazine, for example, has calculated, but let us believe that 400 million investments cause 1% of GDP growth. So we're not losing investments, but we're winning, so I'd like to ask you to complete that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u295	The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u296	Unreal investments. I stand first for the third development axis, but within the framework of what was promised, it was planned, it was unrealistic. This is also illustrated by the reality in this area. And there are some things like that. We will endeavour to turn these issues into economic growth within the framework of the available resources, which will mainly be available at European work. With all the other things that you have mentioned about investment, promoting economic growth, I agree. Money leaks and special marriages. We believe that, within the framework of the existing law, there is enough room to move forward. Our job at the Ministry is to provide these funds. When I said they weren't leaking, they didn't leak because we didn't give them up and they didn't have anywhere to run or we didn't get them. In short, the key problem I see in this financial perspective, when our ministry is in possession, is that, together with two resources of almost 700 million, we find enough content and power to provide sufficient potential for all four problems in the area and even for the Colossae, even if you want, within a smart specialisation, to invest more in the economic work than not to be misunderstood in the municipality.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u297	Now Miha Kordish, the United Left, will ask the Minister of Defence Mr Janko Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u298	Thank you so much for saying that. These days it is 15 years since the first installation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Kosovo. During this time, the presence of foreign forces declined from an initial 50,000 to 5,000. In the last four years, the Slovenian Armed Forces contingent in Kosovo has consisted of an average of 310 members. In the United Left, we are aware that participation in military operations for members of the Slovenian Army due to low wages means some kind of social adjustment, but there is also a severe psychophysical effort; we must not forget the events of November 2009. As you know, we have performed in the United Left with a programme in which we set ourselves for the goal of Slovenia's exit from NATO. Therefore, for us the participation of Slovenian soldiers in operations under the auspices of NATO is quite a sensitive topic. We are aware that KFOR's mission takes place on the basis of Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June, which clearly gives it legitimacy, but the deployment of the Slovenian Army to military operations abroad is permissible only if peace cannot be guaranteed otherwise than by the deployment of military units. That's why I'm asking: Have the objectives of the operation not yet been met after 15 years? Is there really no alternative to ensuring security than the continued presence of soldiers of the Slovenian Armed Forces and NATO forces in Kosovo? Wouldn't it be time to retire? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u299	Secretary of Defense, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u300	President, thank you again for your word. And a good greeting from the Messenger and the Messengers! In view of Mr Miha Kordiš's question, I would like to explain the following. For Slovenia, the Western Balkans remain strategic in both the security, foreign and economic aspects. And peace and stability and progress in this region are also very important for Slovenia, as it is a region that is close to Slovenia. It is true that Slovenia is also a solidarity and as a country committed to international peace, it can contribute greatly to this situation in the Western Balkans as well. It is true that during this period, very much has been done in these 15 years, and above all the situation has stabilised. However, we are still assessing that the situation is not such that the KFOR mission could also be completed or that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces could also be withdrawn from the area. Not particularly because the agreement reached last year on normalising relations between Belgrade and Pristina needs to be closely monitored. This is what can really attach in the future to what we can say, the mission is successfully completed and our presence is no longer needed in this region. The fact is that the Kosovo security institutions are still not formed at this time, they are still in the development phase, including in capacity building. So that without an international community, this situation could change very quickly, which is, after all, the incidents in the northern part of Kosovo that point out that the situation can deteriorate dramatically at any time. So our presence is, of course, indispensable also because the local population sees us as an extremely impartial, reliable and credible partner. This is what certainly helps to make people live much safer, that they can move freely, and that they can, of course, think about their future. In particular, when you ask whether it is time for us to withdraw from this region, the implementation of the Belgrade-Pristina Agreement must be linked in particular. When all these conditions that I have stated are met, then of course we will be able to say that KFOR is also unnecessary and that we can focus on other areas, for which the need to ensure peace and stability will be demonstrated, which is crucial then also for successful economic development, including Slovenia, because it is known that Slovenia is an export-oriented country, 70% of all that we need to do in our country is to create in foreign markets, so that we really want to keep these foreign markets in a very good condition. Foreign policy and economic diplomacy is one of those that can be achieved when it comes to stable regions. And that is also what we want to ensure for our companies. So that the jobs you are mentioning are actually provided through companies that can participate successfully in this region as well, and this social adjustment that you mentioned, which is supposed to be the reason that we are present on these missions, is not the case. The Slovenian army is being trained primarily for the safety of its country. It is true, however, that we can guarantee our security within the collective defence. If there is no joint training, if there are no such joint performances on these missions, such as in the Western Balkans, then of course we cannot also talk about how we can act in a coordinated and effective manner even if Slovenia is at risk. This is primarily about security and that is why we are present in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u301	Request for a follow-up, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u302	Yes, thank you very much for your word. First of all, it's just a brief explanation because I don't think we understand each other. I did not say that missions abroad and military operations abroad of the Slovenian Armed Forces are treated as being a social correction, but to a wide range of representatives, they can present in existential distress a social correction or a member of the Slovenian Army. And just before I move on to the request to complete the answer, I would like to point out one more thing. The answers coming, the written, from your ministry, are very quality and many ministers could take them as an example and the matter seemed so fascinating to me that I would like to expose it so publicly at the meeting. Good, if we keep going on demand. I disagree with your assessment of the situation and the political guidelines. The third and eighth indent of Article 9 of UN Security Council Resolution 1244 gives international forces a mandate to ensure a safe and stable environment and freedom and security of movement. And if I understand your position correctly, you claim that this cannot be achieved in any way other than with the direct and constant presence of foreign combat units in Kosovo, or you claim that the situation is not yet ripe for this. So please answer the following question: How could international forces withdraw from Iraq to Afghanistan, where they report victims of terrorist attacks weekly, but cannot withdraw from Kosovo? As we know, in Afghanistan, the military operation has turned into an advisory operation with the new year, and so on, because I see that I am running out of time, because I have already mentioned my questions. [[…]] After all, it is also an operation that costs around €19 million annually, which is sometimes not a small amount when saving on the employment of disabled persons, teaching aid for children and the like. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u303	The Secretary of Defense has the floor, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u304	Thanks again for saying that. About the disagreement. Look, now I don't know what part this disagreement is supposed to be in, but Slovenia is really a country that creates a lot of its gross domestic product right in foreign markets. And politically, I would like to point out that it is better for us to open up a foreign market for businesses and that young people get jobs at home, because then this added value can also be created, which is created by selling in foreign markets. So from this political point of view, I think that, above all, the Ministry of Defence's work, which I am leading, is the right thing to do to help businesses get to foreign markets, thereby creating jobs at home and also employment for young people. With regard to the comparison with Afghanistan. Of course, Kosovo and Afghanistan cannot be compared. These are completely different situations, and unfortunately this cannot be compared. We are from a very clear point of view, and I have already stressed that efforts must continue to be made to effectively implement the Belgrade-Pristina agreement, and we must come to the point where security institutions in Kosovo can also be built and can take care of their own security. And this is the point that we want to achieve, and this is also the area in which we are working in this mission. So the effort is really going in this direction, so that things are settled within the country itself, and then, of course, once this is done, the international mission is also completed. However, all indicators at this moment show that the security situation at the moment can change, and such a security situation and such stability in this area are clearly due to the international forces as well. So I would like, of course, to keep it that way in advance and, of course, to have their own security capabilities in place as soon as possible, but they do not yet have them. I think it's better to save suffering or any event that might happen if we decided recklessly or too quickly, because the victims can be really overly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u305	Procedurally Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u306	Yes, thank you very much for your word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like the National Assembly to hold a debate on the Minister's reply to the next meeting. First thing, thank you very much for the additional completion of the answer, but I am very worried when we talk about the economy and the army that goes hand in hand, and how this has some beneficial effects. I mean, purely ideologically, it can be very problematic. The second reason why I would like the National Assembly to hold a debate is that the other parliamentary groups, after 15 years of our presence in Afghanistan, will also be identified until the presence of the Slovenian Armed Forces troops in Kosovo. And despite the allegations that this may not be the most comparable, I repeat that the situation in Kosovo is inadequately better than in Afghanistan, for example, where NATO's military operation just ended after 14 years. And if I understand the interest of the soldiers in participating in these missions, we must be aware that the deployment of the forces is a foreign step that we can only take in extreme force. According to the United Left, here is the discrepancy that I spoke about earlier, the goals that NATO has achieved on the basis of the Security Council resolution, which have been repeatedly mentioned, have already been met. And here's another aspect. We know that the five members of the European Union do not recognise the unilateral secession of Kosovo because it is supposed to be contrary to international law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As usual, the Slovenian Government followed American guidelines. In the case of Crimea, the position is that secession from Ukraine and accession to the Russian Federation have been illegal and supports sanctions. In Kosovo and Palestine, violations do not disturb Kosovo, at least not so much that it does not recognise or advocate sanctions against Israel. If the free movement and security of minorities in Kosovo cannot be guaranteed beyond 15 years from the military, then we must immediately discuss our and NATO policies in Kosovo. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u307	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 27. In January 2015, in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the last question that Dr. Franz Križanič, SD, and to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u308	Thank you very much, President. Dear High Council, Minister! Tourism in Slovenia generates 12% of gross domestic product, it is a very important export sector, its competitiveness and its prospects are based on natural considerations, and in the economy we call it a recardian comparative advantage in tourism, as in wood. In some parts, this has also been enhanced by the advantages, as we call it, of life cycle, of services in this case, by knowledge, by new approaches that further strengthen this activity, make it stable and, even during cycles, less sensitive to recession than most other sectors. Tourism has another very important property, which enables the promotion of easy promotion or promotion of polycentric development, these very quality activities in less developed parts of our country. This is a relatively small risk if this activity is accelerated. Small risks for funds to be placed in projects that would then not have happened to go to waste. Tourism has produced results. The Minister himself knows what he gave in Kozyanski. Similar results can be made elsewhere, and we have recently experienced two cases where it is obvious that the country should cut down its development and all the rest of the policy in order to enable the development of tourism activities in two demographic and developmentally endangered parts of our country or country of Slovenia. The first case is Bovško by neglecting the cable systems on Kanin. And the second is the case of the northern part of Pohorje, now Ribniško Pohorje is a good expression, and this is when essentially allowed the collapse of the road, the tourist road between Lovrence and Pesco. But the exact question on this basis would be, and it's not designed enough for you to come up with a solution right now, but to start thinking: How is the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology involved in solving some infrastructure problems relevant to the development of tourism in the Republic of Slovenia, such as the Kanin ski resort and the Ruta-Lovrenc-Pesek road in Pohorje?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u309	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u310	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Franz the Crusader, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! With regard to Kanin, I will try to respond in three stages, first of all, to the Ministry's efforts to get involved in solving this problem because we estimate that any way we turn is a shame that one of the two high-rise skis is not in use or in service for the second year. This is unacceptable in a number of ways. The fact is that the bankruptcy process in this ATC Kanin is ongoing, that within this Heta is also included as a mortgage creditor, I think that, Hypo Bank and that both, the bankruptcy manager or manager and Heta, are looking for a strategic partner who would be involved in at least the banking part of the other investments that are affected by this, I mean overnight [[…]] Secondly, the real second step is that we need to get to one model of public-private partnership. We are aware that the local community has an interest in establishing a public undertaking to manage the infrastructure line. We also expect and believe that the matter will take place in this direction, that the local community in this public company will be at least a minority owner because of the interest that this environment develops. I believe that in such infrastructure matters there must be a strain between the local community, between private capital, and the country in terms of support. At our ministry this year, we have already foreseen at least EUR 3 million for the adoption of the budget this year, within these very limited resources to be discussed. A much greater investment will be needed than it would be if it were to react immediately and find a reasonable solution. I believe personally and believe within the framework of the policy that we will take, that in such cases there is an absolute necessity for the local community in terms of responsibility for the place, because of the multiplier effect of such an infrastructure project on all other matters, below and above, not only because of winter tourism, but their numbers now show that things are moving horribly and are also focusing on this year's work. I believe Kanin or Bovec below has all the conditions for becoming a 12-month tourist destination. This is the only assurance that all the capacities already made there and also those who will be able to deliver the right economic results. Of course, it is a condition for us to reach one responsible public company to undertake this project, and in this case, we will support such a project at our ministry with all available resources. The second issue is the Ruth – Pesek – Lovrenc road, which is already a slightly longer range of snakes, the 2010 budget envisioned funding for the project. The projects were designed and approved in 2013. The production or investment agreement was made at EUR 5 million, of which 33% were municipalities. However, the fact is that we do not have the funds reserved for this part at the moment and the implementation of the project is questionable. We will try, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, to find a solution within the framework of European funds, but I cannot guarantee this right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u311	Thank you. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, 27 January 2015, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I also adjourn the fourth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
