ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Violeta Tomić, Anja Bah, Iva Dimic from 17.30 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez, Franz Breznik, Roberto Battelli, mag. Anže Logar, Luka Moon from 13.30 to 16.00, Jan Škoberne until 3 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin, Matjaž Hanžek, Peter Wilfan, and Dr. Franc Runk from 5 p.m. on. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 3 June 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 54 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to 2, 3, 4, 5. AND 6. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the will of the President of the Republic, a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Local wills and a law on the amendment of the Law on Members within the framework of the restricted procedure. The draft laws were tabled by a group of four Members and Members, with Mr Janije Möderndorfer, first signed. At its 8th meeting, on 2 June, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government also considered the draft law amending the Law on Members, which was dealt with by the Mandate-Electorial Commission at its 10th meeting on 3 June. Since the Committee and the Commission did not adopt the articles of the bill after the discussion, the second reading of the draft laws at the meetings of the home labour bodies was completed. In accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. At the 29th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 3 June 2015, it was agreed that the presentations of the views of the groups of Members on all draft laws should be carried out jointly. The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, who will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a final action concerning a package of electoral legislation that would prevent convicts and prisoners from running for and performing the most important functions in the country. The package of laws was tabled by ZaAB last year and was rejected on the home committees this week because the provisions were under-thinking, unclear and, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, constitutionally controversial. In the United Left, we have been clearly advocating appropriate changes to the electoral legislation that would prevent both the candidates and the prisoners from performing the most important political functions in the country. This is an important area, and solutions need to be carefully reconsidered and prepared in such a way as to pass a constitutional assessment. Although we would rather see individuals charged with criminal charges, convictions and suspicions of corruption withdraw from political functions alone, it is not possible to expect this in Slovenia because of the low level of political culture. We are confident that changes in electoral legislation will contribute or constitute a first step towards a reversal of this negative trend. As has already been said, it is a sensitive area to change it without the necessary consideration and quickly. Despite the fact that the legislative process of this package has ended, we will soon re-examine laws with the same aims and objectives, as a new package of electoral legislation has been tabled by the coalition and the ZaAB this week. This package, despite the fact that we stand for the same goals, was not signed in the United Left. Why? It's a content we shouldn't be headless about. As we believe that the new proposed package does not solve all the concerns and does not answer all the questions raised by the profession and the legal and legislative service, we have not contributed to the laws of our signatures. We do not want the calvary that we have already seen in this mandate to happen. However, we will definitely engage constructively in the consideration. If the package is not prepared well enough, the question of the sincerity of the purpose that these laws should pursue can quickly arise. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us, which we have already dealt with on the legislative working bodies, is a non-trust to the electorates and voters, citizens and citizens. Indeed, with such proposals, when we restrict their passive electoral rights or want to restrict their passive electoral rights, we give one signal that they are not themselves able to decide what is right and what is wrong in the elections. We tell voters and voters that they themselves are not able to say that prisoners will not be elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. That's the kind of legislation. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that the proposed changes to the law are excessive interference with passive electoral law alone, as also recorded by the Legislative and Legal Service. In fact, passive electoral law is one of the fundamental constitutional rights, human rights, and we really need to limit it with a shaking hand. The legislative and legal service also warns that this is a very sensitive matter. This is why we will not support the proposals. Let me go on with what the Legal and Legal Service has already said. In her opinion, she stressed that electoral rights, active and passive electoral rights, are fundamental human rights. For each limitation of this right, a proportionality test and a legitimacy test must be carried out in advance. Or in other words: this fundamental right can only be restricted in cases where it is a matter of interference with the rights of others at the same time and where such an intervention permits a constitutional act as a hierarchically highest legal act. With regard to this test, the Constitutional Court has determined in one of its decisions that solutions must also be based on comparable legal arrangements acceptable in modern democratic societies. The Constitutional Court also refers to a code of good practice in electoral matters adopted by the Venice Commission. As one of the reasons for the seizure of electoral rights, he also provides for a criminal conviction for worse crimes. These can certainly be only presumptive crimes, not mere conditional imprisonment. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, as well as the novelties of the remaining functional laws, have significantly exceeded these criteria, as they have determined, as a restrictive condition, the conviction, as I have already said, to the unconditional penalty of imprisonment for any offence and regardless of the length of the penalty imposed. In this case, therefore, there is a hypersensitivity intervention in electoral law. As far as the rise of political culture is concerned, it follows that an extended ruling coalition will introduce a new set of such laws, otherwise corrective. Look, to raise political culture, we have the first sieve of parties ourselves – whom and which candidates we propose to be Members of the National Assembly. And the coalition, you've been tested several times in this term. This trial was very painful, even in the case of the minister's candidate, in which you later found plagiarism. That is why this sensitivity, the first sieve, is a party democracy – the parties must be very careful in this area, whom they place in elected places. Here you have an extraordinary problem for new customers, because you don't know the candidates themselves. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that this legislation, which limits passive electoral law, must be born united for all officials. First of all, it is necessary to regulate the limitation of passive electoral rights for Members, as also proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service. Let me get on with this, and I'll end it somehow. Most European Union countries, most countries, do not know the limitation of passive electoral rights. However, there are also countries where there are legal restrictions. In Novi Slovenija we agree that passive voting rights are limited to worse crimes. But this must be regulated in accordance with the Constitution and legislation, in accordance with cases of practices abroad. Let me tell you a case from Germany where passive electoral rights are limited to those citizens and citizens who are punished by a one-year prison sentence. In Novi Slovenija we find this practice very acceptable. Let me also point out here that even for six months, prison sentences can be excessive interference with passive electoral law. Indeed, we cannot simply restrict one of the fundamental human rights. We therefore stress that in New Slovenia, in the future, this package of laws announced by the extended government coalition will be adopted if they do not constitute a constitutional dispute, so that you will not again receive a slap by the Constitutional Court, if this intervention in passive electoral law is at least between half a year and a year in prison. However, the new Slovenia will not support the proposed laws that are before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u6	Hello! Today we will certainly not discuss and have the opportunity to lead the debate in a direction that is right and what is wrong, so I will not even tire of it. Of course, it will have to be made very clear in the beginning, and it will also beat out a lot of media, which has been writing and drawing for two days now, how the package has fallen and how it has ended and so on. No, on the contrary. Now it's only become real and there's a real possibility that, as you know, with the new package already in place, let's have a clear debate in the regular process, at least where we need a two-thirds majority, with all the serious concerns, and include everything we need, so that after 25 years we can fix what we failed at the beginning. Because in 25 years we have become practically the only employee in the country who can hire someone who is legally convicted regardless of function. I am not just talking about Members, I am talking about all elected and appointed functions. But this does not immediately apply to all officials and any profession in the country, and this is what is most important. Of course, the question of what is more sacred. Today we're going to listen to a bunch of explanations, which are very specific, not to say anything else, if it's the biggest institute, watch out for that, the biggest decision-making institute, who can be an officer, whether he's convicted or not, an electorate. I agree, but before that, we just have to clear up, because these same voters are asking us the same question: Why can someone who is legally convicted, politicians and even employees? It doesn't work together. The following will be a very competent discussion of other institutions within this package, which is how and how to create calls, from a dilemma, or just call off because today a proposal was also made in a new package when we talk about the mayor, whether this applies to all officials at the state level. There will be more or less different proposals, but for us it is only one thing – after 25 years we must make some kind of change first and first clean up at home, in our kind, in the National Assembly, among Members, and then for everything else simultaneously and proportionally. That's what's most important to us. What the final decision will be, surely it is up to all of us to decide. Today, however, there is nothing else, and it is also necessary for the electorate and the electorate, citizens and citizens to be given a very clear message from this city – with today's decision, Parliament has not decided to stop and to stop the debate and debate on this issue. This is crucial because it creates an impression, as if we support it all together. In the National Assembly, we do not support that they are elected or loved, or even that they remain when the official is legally condemned. I'm sure you don't. I think that the time has come, and also by today's decision we must give the opportunity to move on to a new package as soon as possible, to a new debate. And that's the essence of today's session. That's why I'm going to be very brief myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Liliana Kozlovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u8	Thank you, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Today we are talking about a package of laws that only means the beginning of what we will do next. At least that is my belief, because it is indeed an important question, to establish an institution of inadmissibility and also to determine the reasons for the termination of a function for those who would not exist in such functions. In this case, it is an extremely complex issue, and these first packages, which were submitted, did not deal in detail with everything that needed to be settled. Indeed, it is a situation in which it is necessary to determine both the situation until the time of the candidacy itself and the situation from the candidate to the mandate approval and also the situation after the mandate has been confirmed, later when someone already has that mandate. Since it is a matter of limiting human rights, legal protection must be regulated, and it must be determined how these procedures have been determined which of them is to decide. And since this has not been regulated in these bills, it is a purely business provision and does not mean that we are rejecting the purpose of these laws today, but that we only want business to allow the new laws that regulate all of this to come into the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. That is why, at this June session, this package, where we will have a general discussion and, as already stated in the United Left, will listen to the views and listen to the legal and legislative services, because our intentions are genuine and we want to get broad support, because we know that this is what our society wants and our voters deserve. So in the SMC Group, together with the others, we continue with this project and I believe that we will also successfully lead it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I promise I won't be short, because if you have something to say, then you can talk. We have before us a package of electoral legislation submitted by ZaAB, which has fallen on the committee, so there will also be no vote on this today. It is interesting that, in the case of the proposalers, or in the wider coalition with all supporters, where the applicants so judge, they talk about the fact that we will not invest in ad person's laws. What about these five laws? Why didn't you or your predecessors file these five laws a year ago, two years ago, three, ten and so forth? Why is this only after the political and judicial structure that was carried out against Janez Janša? So you filed this law directly for this case. You probably expected us to be absolutely against it. You must have been counting on it. But at least as far as we're concerned, the situation is simply that we read the law. We read the regulations and decide not to look at who the proposer is. The custom that the coalition has, and not only this one, even one before, is to look at who the proposalr is, and then it is clear how to vote, even if you are mistaken, as you did in the case of Mrs Kresal's letter about Mr Zalar's corruption. So we studied the laws. We have also reviewed European practice in this area, and European countries have such a limitation as you have foreseen. Therefore, we may not object to the surprise of the coalition and all others. But it's a matter that needs to be settled in some other way. First, simply to determine that someone is legally sentenced to imprisonment and the end is probably not enough. Because you can have a carambolo that's not a premeditated crime, usually not. That's one problem. The second problem is that most European countries are limited to 6 months. Therefore, it is probably also necessary to consider these two restrictions in the legislation that is coming, including the restriction that the representative of New Slovenia has been talking about. Somewhere there will probably have to be a border in these areas, not anything. That's one thing. We have also tabled an amendment in this context, which, of course, was not adopted. However, we have tabled another amendment that is of exceptional importance to us. If there can't be someone in the National Assembly who is legally sentenced to such and such a prison sentence, which we agree with, as I said, then there probably can't be anyone who was an accomplice to the Judgment. That's probably worse. That's significantly worse. We must get into these key laws of the country that are in the field of the judiciary, the prosecution, and the laws that we are talking about, to some standard that someone who is before 8. 4. 1990 actively cooperated with the State Security Service or even was its agent, a spy, whatever you want, or a user of information that we will be accurate, that no one will say that I missed anything – these people cannot be loved. You'll say it's a lustration, and you'll say what they told me on the board, if you've been to the government twice, but you haven't accepted it. Yeah, we didn't, because there wasn't a majority. We had Desus and someone else. Most of it is, if Mira Cerar's client or SMC is for this, most of it will be to bring it in anyway. There was a question on the committee, someone asked me, and he said, "Why are you bringing in the staff of the Udba, their workers, the users of the information, and also the military KOS, why are you entering this and why aren't you bringing in the employees of foreign intelligence services?" That's an interesting question. I was a little surprised on the committee, so I only half answered that question, because there are no records and there are no data in this area. But this answer needs to be complemented with something else. Each country has an intelligence service and each country has employees in the intelligence service, each country has a spike. Every one. You don't have to do any illusions here. We have them today, too, today. But what is the difference between a co-worker, an intelligence officer or a CIA spy in the territory of Slovenia and the same person who worked with the State Security Service? The first thing is that the State Security Service dealt with the possible domestic opposition in 75% if ever it was created, and in particular it was persecuting it. So, in particular, she persecuted our domestic people, and her citizens, and imprisoned them illegally, and killed them, as you know. Liquidated, killed, whatever you call it, even based on information from the spires. This is not the work of foreign intelligence. Let's say the CIA won't deal with it that way. And someone who would work with the CIA from the territory of today's Republic of Slovenia, in any event, commits a crime in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We just don't know who they are. However, in the event that countries find out who it is or whether it is incarcerated, foreign diplomats who sometimes deal with it are expelled. So, the fundamental difference is that this was a criminal organisation, a criminal organisation, which is the foundation laid by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. And working with a criminal organization that has killed its own people, but it can be a criterion to exclude such individuals from being Members. I reiterate that more than 40 Members have this national assembly and all the previous compositions that were members of the State Security Service. So, I repeat, someone who has been convicted of one or another crime for six months cannot be a candidate for the National Assembly. Okay. But for our notions, someone who was a worker, an associate of the Udba – that is, he was employed there, or that he was sold from the outside for money, if you want, in terms of information they were doing and the result of killing people – could not be a candidate for a national constituency. Another very interesting opinion was expressed on the Committee. I'm not gonna tell the author. It was said about this: After all, it will be necessary to consider some who hold back their functions in this country from time to time, to be saved or disposed of. Something like that was said. I asked my colleague who she meant. Janez Novak, president of the Beekeeping Society? Does he think of Jako Schraufenciger, president of the Fire Company? Does he think Janez Jansho? Who does he think he is? If John Novak, who is president of the Fire Company, is round about it — this law is not the case. If Jake Schraufciger is involved, he has nothing to do with this law. But I'm guessing the colleague was thinking of Janez Jansho. This marriage doesn't talk about it. However, I recommend to my colleague and to those who think this way: we will decide on our own leader, the leader of the party. That's the first one. Not even the law. Another time. As long as someone in secret elections gets 522 votes in secret – 11 against it and 4 votes invalid – no one has the legitimate right to talk about it. Nobody. Even if it is a member of the National Assembly. Let me put it this way: legislation is already in place. This time it was filed by SMC with some others. I have to admit, I haven't been able to look at much so far. I think six months' imprisonment has been imposed as a condition that someone does not run for the National Assembly. Here we will have to consider whether 6 or 12 because there is also arguments of New Slovenia that I think we should think about. It will be very good to consider the alleged crimes so that we do not have a carambola inside which can happen in five minutes to any of us. I think we know that, but it's not exactly a premeditated crime. And we'll have to think about something else. However, it will certainly be necessary to consider what is on one side for 6 months and what cooperation with the Judgment is, which involved killings, including killings. I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to put this on the scale. And it will have to be very clearly judged here and very clearly stated that this is also a legitimate criterion for identifying someone from the candidate list as a Member. I'm afraid that hasn't been the case with us so far. Also with regard to other laws, not only these five laws, which will not be on the agenda today, which we will not even accept today, but will be adopted on a regular basis once in the autumn, I think it would be very useful to consider this in particular by then the candidates of the largest political party in the National Assembly, who also bear the greatest responsibility for this area. In short, to introduce, as I said, it was determined that someone who, before April 8, 1990 — this is the time of the election — worked with these services that are now being tried by criminal organizations, not to create an illusion, it is a criminal organization, and that is the end, said the court. [[...]] And if cooperation with a criminal organization is allowed, then perhaps some prison sentence is six months less serious, I apologize for a less bad act. We will support both options, this is a clear matter, so we need to go in this direction. However, it is very clear, even through the speech of a fellow Member, that someone needs to be rid of. That's very clear, fellows. That's very clear. You've written a law against one person in this country. After all, we could also adopt a shorter law: Janez Janša should not participate in the elections. And everything would be the same. But you put this on in a nice dress, a bow tie, black glasses up there, say, and came to the National Assembly with this law; I mean the representatives of ZaAB. If I finish, I will say this: it is necessary to consider, because all countries have the same definition as you proposed, it is probably necessary to go in this direction. The criteria, as I said, should be sharpened, in particular from the point of view of the length of the prison sentence and from the point of view of the intent of the crime, and this provision should be introduced, which I have been referring to – that someone was not a worker, an employee or a beneficiary. When I said the word "beneficiary," some of you thought a little bit. Of course, users. There were quite a few users, such information that the State Security Service had brought in. If I finish, I'll say the following. If we are talking about the criminality of this organization, we should know that the Croats have said it very well. A member of their Constitution has made it very clear what they were doing before the elections in 1990 when they said we will determine who will be the Member, who will be the President of the Republic. And they went to him, and they called him Listen, and we'll help you, but in exchange for you not to abandon us, prosecute us, forgive us, or anything. In Slovenia this was not necessary because the one who was the main beneficiary of the information and the political leader of the criminal organisation was too good at the elections and he also won the elections then, so that our service did not have such a job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u12	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Desus Group did not support the draft laws contained in the so-called electoral package at its parent working body meeting, as did most of the members of the group. These are new laws on the State Council, on the government, on the election of the President of the Republic and on local elections. The novels, inter alia, provided that no persons who were legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment could not run for the state councillor, the Prime Minister, the Minister, the President of the Republic, the Mayor or the Municipal Councilor. At the same time, most of them would have ceased their mandate if they had been sentenced during their term of office. In the Desus Group, we have assessed that these bills are not suitable for support, because our assessment was that they would lead to too many differences in the ban on individual officials. Our decision was also followed by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which warned, inter alia, that the drafter, together with the other novels, had not proposed a law on elections to the National Assembly, which would result in different restrictions on Members and other directly-loved officials. Members and Members of the Desus Group, however, believe that restrictions on candidates for individual officials need to be regulated, so we have joined the other members of the coalition and some opposition parties in the drafting of electoral legislation, with which we wish to regulate the ban on candidatures equally for all officials. And since Mr. Gorenak is now referring to Desus at two meetings, I would say to Mr. Gorenak that there is still good [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u13	That's a controversy. I would like to ask for the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u14	Good thing you had Desus, you were at least a minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! Following the presentation of reports from the Committee on Home Affairs and the Mandate-Electorial Commission, it is clear to all that the proposals for laws to 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at these two home work bodies have been rejected. They were rejected because it was again found that the text was not adequately prepared. Why again? In the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to recall some of the decisions already taken in the National Assembly on this issue in the previous term. The fact is that the debate on limiting passive electoral rights in this area has already been held. This debate took place, I stress, in 2013 and not just in this mandate, both at the plenary session and at the public presentation of opinions. Let me freshen up. The debate took place one year after the elections in the State Council and with known complications at the confirmation of one of the mandates of state councillors, where the issue of the legitimacy and ethics of public officials came to the fore. Our predecessors, Members and Members of the previous constitution have dealt with this matter and, as we do today, have asked many questions on which it is very easy and easy to answer, who cannot and cannot be a candidate or perform the functions they love, and on the other hand, we find that this is a very difficult constitutional and formal legal matter. In 2013, Members and Members of the competent working bodies adopted a decision proposing to the Government and the competent ministry to draw up, within the framework of the legislation, a uniform and systematic constitutionally coherent arrangement for the nomination and termination of the mandate of public officials, as it has been assessed that the executive branch of the government has sufficient professional support for the preparation of in-depth legislative proposals. That is how the truth should be, and unfortunately to this day the government has not found the will to realize the conclusions of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament then went a step further and committed themselves to preparing an ethical code for Members, which was to be regulated in accordance with Greek recommendations. Surely this decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission was also drawn up on the basis of a debate by Dr Iglicar, who asked in the debate the following question: "Should not this content and other aspects first be introduced into the ethical code of conduct of Members, of course, accompanied by an appropriate existence of a commission or an honorable tribunal which would judge this, could also give advice and give some reminders. And after four years we'd find out whether it worked or not, and then we'd decide whether to pass it on to the law, of course, if the code hadn't been adopted, it wouldn't have worked enough." And he went on to say, "In fact, I am convinced of this idea by what is happening in Europe. By the end of 2012, 13 parliaments of the countries which are members of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe had already adopted ethical codes of conduct for Members, and in 2012 the Code of Conduct for Members of the European Parliament also entered into force." In short, today we have informed Members and Members of Parliament of the findings of the reports of the meetings of the two working bodies of the National Assembly that the procedure for the adoption of the proposed laws has been completed. It is worth noting, however, that the legislative procedure for these proposals is not over because Members and Members oppose the fundamental ideas and objectives pursued by these legislative proposals. It's not like that. We are advocates of the need for all electoral legislation to be regulated in a way that will not allow anyone who has committed any crime to continue the punishment to perform a public function. This cannot happen in countries with advanced democracy, as this makes it impossible to respect the rules of political culture. However, since we are far from such a level of political behaviour in Slovenia, we must also regulate, at the legal level, such rules as determine when an individual is no longer able to perform a public function. It should therefore be pointed out that the debate on regulating the limitation of passive electoral rights and on the early termination of the mandate of public function holders is not over. After reconsidering, seeking appropriate solutions, taking into account some opinions, the Social Democrats, together with colleagues of SMC, Desus and the Alliance, prepared proposals for legislation on 3 June 2015, which will also regulate the legal system. And given that we are also awaiting a re-general debate on the proposed laws, including on the proposal for a bill on elections to the National Assembly as a system-wide electoral law, whose co-signatory we are the Social Democrats, I will conclude our position at this point. It may not be necessary, however, to stress in particular that we will strive to regulate these issues carefully at the legal level as well. We have this in our client documents as well. We believe that it is primarily the responsibility of an individual to comply with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and Other Laws. Of course, the responsibility lies also with the political party, which must have the appropriate levers, the possibility of acting in cases where an individual is acting contrary to accepted social standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure is concluded for the following laws: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Council, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Elections of the President of the Republic, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Members. This concludes agenda items 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, the proposal recommended the implementation of the emergency medical assistance service in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 26 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u18	President, thank you very much for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and all my colleagues! You have before you recommendations regarding the implementation of emergency medical assistance in the Republic of Slovenia proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia. The emergency medical service is a public service for the provision of medical care services in the event of emergency conditions on the ground or in primary health institutions, i.e. health homes. Emergency medical care also includes rescue services for patients or injured persons to a hospital or emergency centre. The term emergency medical services is also used narrower, exclusively for pre-patient care, or more broadly by the provision of emergency departments in hospitals which are secondary health facilities and emergency departments in clinical centres which are tertiary health facilities. The quality service of emergency medical care consists of pre-patient, hospital emergency medical care and dispatch centre. By the end of 2015 Slovenia was expected to receive ten additional two operational emergency centres. This acquisition, which we welcome and support, is also preparing changes in the field of emergency medical care at the pre-patient level. Following the draft regulation prepared by the Ministry of Health, emergency medical care will be provided continuously by 12 emergency centres and 18 satellite emergency centres. In the field, emergency ambulances, 60 of these vehicles, and 35 cars, including doctors, will be available. Two dispatch centres will be operational, in Maribor and in Ljubljana, and will be available at 112. At the same time, a new medical emergency policy is intended to provide the first intermediaries or so - called volunteers on the ground. This is in the grave news of the new emergency medical regulation. However, any change brings positive and negative responses. It depends on how we introduce or introduce these changes. In view of today's response by the professional public and also by the lay public, we can conclude that the Ministry of Health has prepared and prepared a regulation on emergency medical care services in a very reckless manner, without coordination with the Medical Chamber, with the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, with the Ministry of Defence, with the Gasilian Union of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. But we know that this is a very sensitive area, that it is a matter of saving human lives. The new NMP Service Regulation has led to the most negative responses mainly to the reorganisation of pre-patient emergency medical care and dispatch centre. As early as November 2014 and early this year, the Ministry of Local Community and Health, if I may put it bluntly, suggested that a new NMP Regulation was being drawn up and that they made very stale statements and did not wish to present the Regulation, not in professional circles, nor in general. Due to the growing pressure on us Members from health care homes, local communities and other professional public, we have already convened an extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee in February, where we were able to obtain information for the first time on what the new emergency medical assistance network would look like. However, the Ministry still did not wish to present the regulation if it was still in coordination and preparation. This meeting was followed by a very dramatic response from the professional public, and in April the Ministry presented a regulation on emergency medical care services at a press conference and also officially put it into public debate. At the press conference, the Ministry defined or stated that the draft regulation was in line with the Medical Chamber and the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia and other professional public. After the presentation of the regulation at the press conference, on this side, namely by the Medical Chamber and the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, there was a sharp opposition to the new regulation. The draft submitted did not take into account the comments made by the professional public from the beginning of this year. In April, we called again an extraordinary meeting of the Committee because we wanted to resubmit to the Ministry all comments made by the professional public. On 22 May, a public debate on the emergency medical procedure was concluded. In the course of the public debate and field visits, the Minister brought a virtually uniformly reasoned opposition to the current operators of emergency medical care and on-call services, to all affected local communities, residents and the professional public. With the envisaged establishment of a network of emergency centres, the health care situation will deteriorate dramatically, in particular by increasing access time to health services and stopping on-calls. The most affected rural areas, especially remote areas, will be affected. In the light of the comments made by the professional public, it can be found that the Regulation centralises emergency medical care. The Regulation states that after two months from the start of the operation of the emergency centres, the activities of the on-call service of the nearest emergency medical unit shall be relocated to the nearest emergency centre and, at the latest, within one year of the establishment of the dispatch service, the health service shall cease to operate after 24 hours. The professional public warns that this presents certain human resources risks. We don't have very few doctors at the moment. This will include family medicine specialists in the implementation. The Regulation repeatedly states that doctors at primary level will be involved in the work of the emergency service, but it is not clear how this can be done under the applicable legislation. This weakens the functioning of the Family Medicine Clinic. But we do know that there is currently a shortage of family doctors and that they are very burdensome. It is also unclear who will be employed in satellite emergency centres, whether they will be healthcare professionals or hospital doctors. It is stated that the satellite emergency centre is professionally and organisationally linked to the regional emergency centre and is an operator of the pre-hospital part of the emergency medical service. At present, the most pressing and important is the fact that it also shows by the construction of the Emergency Centre of Brežica that there is no plan for the operation of the emergency centres and that there is no single working methodology in the emergency centres. Emergency centres represent an important step towards unifying the functioning of emergency medical care in our health system. However, today, six months before the last opening of the emergency centre – so at least stated at the Ministry – we do not have a regulated status issue of the emergency centre. The proposal is that it is reasonable and rational for emergency centres to be institutionally established as a special department of the hospital. The rules do not state that the emergency centre would operate within hospitals. Health legislation will need to be amended to regulate the status of the Emergency Centre. Hospitals, where emergency centres are being built or already built, such as in Brežica, are also drawing attention to the problem of financing the operation of the emergency centre. At this point, I would stress that it would be reasonable and proper for the Ministry to first resolve the operations of the emergency centres and then reorganise the emergency medical services. The next issue is accessibility or intervention time. Now the average access time is, say, in the countryside from 11 to 12 minutes. By terminating 24-hour duty stations, this response time will be extended, and the Regulation specifies in its Article 7 that the time available is 20 minutes. This definition of access times in Article 7 of the new Emergency Medical Service Regulation selects the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We know that accessibility, the response time depends on several factors, but the regulators on all committees constantly assure us that they want to improve the current poor accessibility or response, thus reducing response time. I wonder how, in what way, if all the expert analyses show that this is 11 to 12 minutes and now it will be 20 minutes — according to the rules. The Network of Emergency Centres, Satellite Emergency Centres and Mobile Emergency Medical Units was established on the basis of professional criteria, professional grounds. I wonder what these professional grounds are, when we will also be able to see Members, and who is the expert who finds that after 20 minutes the resuscitation of the heart is still meaningful. There are also a number of confusions and open questions that have been brought to our attention by both the Medical Chamber and the other professional public, namely, homes for an elderly funded doctor only a few hours a week. Home visits are now being carried out within the emergency service, and NMP also covers homes for the elderly. The new regulation does not show how this will now be regulated. The special chapter is paediatric or paediatric medicine, which needs to be urgently established and is not defined in the new Regulation. The operation of dispatch centres and emergency medical helicopter services is also not clearly defined. At the same time, we say that money for dispatch centres has already been provided this year, but the government does not see the need to make the regulation public. The Regulation also provides for supervisory committees on the operation of emergency medical care, satellite emergency centres and emergency centres. Everything that the Supervisory Board should do is written down, but there is no record of who may be on the Supervisory Board or what education or competence it must have. At the same time, we also obtain the first firefighters in this regulation. You may also have read or received a protest letter addressed to the Ministry of Health, namely, the Republic of Slovenia’s Fireworks, to strongly oppose such a record in Article 53, which states that the Emergency Centre, the Directorate for Protection and Rescue and the local community shall, within one year of the establishment of the regular operation of the Emergency Centre, agree on the training of the first mediator and the manner in which the first intermediaries are activated. Training for first intermediaries may be carried out where voluntary firefighting is organised or a different form of civil protection. The question of municipalities and the associations of firefighters is who will finance this education, and it is also not clearly defined as what the first mediator is. After all, the issue of the moral and criminal responsibility of the first mediator also arises. The proposed draft emergency medical regulation has received so many comments, open questions and ambiguities that it shows that the Ministry has prepared a regulation in a narrow group without the least basic coordination with the Medical Chamber, the Association of Medical Homes of Slovenia, the Health Care Chamber, the Ministry of Defence, the Association of Fire Companies and so on. We have therefore prepared a proposal for recommendations from the Government and the Ministry of Health based on all comments received in Slovenia and New Slovenia. We have also addressed these comments or recommendations on the Committee, but unfortunately the coalition has rejected these recommendations and has amended one. Despite the fact that, let's say, in our recommendations, it is required, if I may say so, to maintain a 24-hour duty, in which the minister and the coalition claimed yesterday that this should not be abolished, but at the same time rejected our fourth recommendation, which speaks precisely about not canceling the duty. In fact, we are already used to working in this way in the coalition, that even those recommendations recommended by the Government, or the conclusions endorsed by the Government at the end, are in fact rejected by the coalition for a purely simple reason, because this is what the opposition is proposing. In fact, we did not hear completely any arguments yesterday why these recommendations are not accepted. Thus, we have tabled an amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party, in which we have rewritten these recommendations, and we would like to present before the adoption of the Rules of Procedure to the competent parental committee the expert analyses on the implementation of the new Emergency Medical Aid Rules, in order to regulate the status of emergency centres before the entry into force of the new Regulation, in order to adopt a Rules of Procedure on Dispatching, on the implementation of helicopter emergency assistance, in order to identify the first intermediaries and also to identify emergency medical assistance, but certainly not to extend the response times of emergency medical assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The proposal for a recommendation addressed the working body of the mother, the Health Committee. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to all! The Health Committee shall meet at its 12th emergency meeting on 4. 6. as a parent working body, the proposal for a recommendation concerning the implementation of the emergency medical service in the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 27. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There is also the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee also received additional material from the proposer of the proposal for a recommendation and the Community position of the municipalities of Slovenia. On behalf of the applicant, Nada Brinovšek provided the introductory supplementary explanation to the proposal for the recommendation. It presented the key reasons for the submission of the proposal for a recommendation to the National Assembly and the content of the proposed solutions. Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc stressed that the regulation will go in the direction of regulating the operation of emergency centres, dispatch services and the introduction of a single triage system. The project team and the Ministry will take account of the substantive and substantive comments expressed both at the regional public divisives and at numerous visits to places and working meetings with residents, mayors and directors of health homes. A transitional period will be extended to achieve the greatest possible consensus. In a broad debate, the mayors of some municipalities, as well as Members, were critical of the proposed emergency medical care regime. In particular, they noted accessibility to health services and responsive or accessible time in individual areas. In their view, the Ministry should clearly state which are good and which are the bad points of the new regime. There are several questions on the ground that are not answered, including how to finance the new regime and staff. Many members of the Committee agreed that the changes were necessary and necessary for the emergency centres to be added value, which must be brought to a close, and that all open dilemmas and issues must also be addressed by a profession that should be unified. However, some members expressed their disagreement with the proposal's proposal for a recommendation to address this issue in the National Assembly. Such meetings and discussions should be led by the Ministry, together with mayors who are legally responsible for healthcare at the primary level, including the duty station. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an amendment to the second point of the proposal. In accordance with Articles 126 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the individual points of the proposal and adopted the 1st point of the proposal in the proposed text. The Committee did not adopt points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the proposal for a recommendation. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the updated proposal for a recommendation concerning the implementation of the emergency medical service in the Republic of Slovenia has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It includes the adoption of an amendment. The amended proposal for an act is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Hello, all present, Members and Members of Parliament, this hot Friday afternoon! The Emergency Health Service Regulation is an act of the Ministry of Health, which is proposed and adopted by the Minister of Health. However, as we are aware that this new act significantly changes the methodology for offering emergency medical care, my responsibility as a whole of the ministry was to put the draft regulation into a comprehensive public debate, which took place on 22 April. And in order to get as many comments as possible from the field and from people, we visited all regions in Slovenia, conducted numerous interviews with so-called professions, family doctors, doctors in hospitals and many others. The public debate ended on 22 May. During this period, we have received a number of comments in addition to the visits, which we are reviewing, examining, and will also take all reasonable arguments into account in the final proposal of the Regulation. All of these matters, which we are currently discussing at several meetings, urgent and extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee, as well as the National Assembly, relate to some sub-legislative act of the Ministry, which is in the form of a draft. However, the draft is designed to give good comments and suggestions. I believe and I want to be sure that this is also the key purpose of all those sitting in this Chamber today. Why? In order to get better, better, better, faster and more urgent support for life-threatening conditions through this new methodology, about 35,000 Slovenes and Slovenians are said to be, and at least to the same extent, if not a better quality health service for so-called visits to outpatient services. As I have already said, in accordance with all the comments received, we will draw up and present the final proposal for a regulation. Now, allow me to present the key acquisitions and changes brought by this new rule. He was prepared to be very clear, also in accordance with and on the basis of guidelines and strategy for the development of emergency medical care in Slovenia prepared by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. The new regulation envisages the construction of a new network of ten emergency centres and so-called emergency centres satellites and, as I said yesterday on the Health Committee, the maintenance of the existing duty network. Health care homes that have not received the status of the so-called satellite emergency centre will maintain on-call service to the extent they have so far. Due to the distance and frequency of the visits, we have granted them even an additional nurse, a so-called triage nurse, to ensure that the doors of the health homes will never be closed for our patients, even in the case of what happened in the past, and today, because of the system, that the team could go into the field and the doors of the healthcare home were closed. The network will be prepared to separate mobile units and health personnel, allowing us to monitor the status of individual units at the first review of the network. The first revision of the network will be based on the fact that we extended the transitional period for one year only in March 2019. During this time, data will be collected by the health department, which will be real and objective, as all calls to 112 will be recorded from the second the dispatcher receives this call, until the appropriate ambulance reaches the accident and when it is brought to the hospital or to the emergency centre. The Ministry will also significantly strengthen its supervisory function in both the financial, organisational and professional fields through the single approach of a stand-alone organisational unit within the Ministry of Health during this period. The key advantages of the new emergency medical care network are as follows. Firstly, the possibility of sharing emergency emergency medical units, which will mean unloading family doctors, for whom we all stress that they are too few, and for which we also have long-term plans to get them by 2018 from the specialisation additional 384. In addition, the system adds all the building blocks that were also foreseen by the new concept of the organisation of the new NMP. Within four years, the primary level of health care will be fully enhanced, not only in terms of increasing the number of family doctors, including by increasing the reference outpatients and other tasks, prevention and others that will be strengthened at the primary level. In the final proposal of the Regulation, we will take into account the on-call service and the doctor in all places, as has been the case so far. The current level of funding will also be maintained. Family doctors maintain an on-call service to provide care for patients with acute illness and emergency home visits. However, they do not need to intervene, which can be provided by the paramedics themselves. We also maintain the main concept of reform, separating the emergency service from the family doctor's on-call service. As I have already mentioned, this transitional period will serve not only the actual collection of data but also the gradual steps taken to adapt all services and stakeholders to the new system. Emergency centres and future satellite emergency centres remain open for 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. So, not for a second will the doors of both of them be closed. An added guard on periodic parallel analyses and adjustment of the network in relation to the loads, where, in fact, every two years until the end of March, they will collect and analyse the data of the health dispatcher and will be the basis for any change. But as I said in the introduction, the first such translation of the system will be at the end of March 2019 when we have the basic data. In summary, the following groups of the most common comments, suggestions and suggestions for improving the rules were the following. Providing uninterrupted health care, which unfortunately many simply associate with duty and with the NMP, which is not true. It should be noted that the draft Regulation did not affect the general regime of continuous healthcare at any stage. The latter is regulated at the legal level and further in the special regulation governing the organisation of continuous healthcare. Let me mention that, at the same time as this Regulation, we are also preparing all that was mentioned in the introduction, the methodology of operation in the emergency centres, the Control Centre Regulation, as well as the comprehensive rules on the provision of continuous healthcare. The following matter, to which the comments were also made, was the provision of paediatric emergency medical care in emergency centres. The truth of the matter is that we do not have the best arrangements for it right now. This is why, given the perceived weakness of this arrangement, we will take a decision to take immediate action to address this problem, which means that within the current network of emergency centres at the level of each individual, we will examine the possibility of including these activities. In view of the inquiries and arrangements already made, we have conducted some interviews, and there is a possibility that we will also provide emergency medical care for children and adolescents within the emergency centres of Brežica, Celje, Trbovlje, Nova Gorica and Novo mesto. We will also continue discussions and opportunities to do so at other centres. Many comments and wishes were made after the launch of satellite emergency centres to establish a very dense network of these centres. The following comments were also made that these satellite emergency centres would stand under the umbrella of health homes. However, we have already said that satellite emergency centres are only an extended deadline for emergency centres. The following set of comments was then mainly from the point of view of the set of competences that can be exercised by qualified health professionals and paramedics. At the legal level, the competences of qualified health professionals and health technicians are not defined. The list of competences of individual profiles is currently only regulated at the level of the sub-legislative act in the Health Professionals List Regulation. Draft Regulation for a special area, this is the area of the NMP, complements this competence in a specific part of this competence. Then it was also often a question of transfer of ownership of equipment and vehicles for the implementation of NMPs owned by health homes. The draft Regulation as a sub-legislative act cannot, nor does it interfere with the transfer of ownership of equipment and means of transport, so that healthcare homes fully retain ownership of their ambulances. There were also some comments or additions related to the purchase of equipment. As we know, the emergency centres will not carry out joint public procurement orders for the purchase of equipment. This is in the domain of the Ministry of Health or together with the Ministry of Public Administration. With regard to funding, Article 41 of the draft Regulation, which provides that the Ministry of Health, as part of the preparation of a general agreement with the partners, shall define and ensure in the evaluation of the NMP programme a new network and scope of services and shall provide money within the Health Insurance Office. The draft Regulation also further defines the first providers of education as it requires renewal of knowledge and licensing, so that progress is also important in this part. Important innovations brought by the new methodology or regulation are also the establishment and details of the health management system, where significant progress will be made on the basis of the Dispatch Service Regulation, where, in particular for this qualified dispatcher, the whole fleet of rescue vehicles in Slovenia will be adequately directed, with every second visible where the individual vehicle is located, and the vehicle closest to the accident or accident, if so activated. It also introduces a single European and globally recognised triage system in the emergency centres themselves, according to the system, that those who are more in need or who need urgent assistance are first in line. Maybe even for closure. I am confident that the concept that we are setting out now will increase the accessibility of the people of Slovenia to emergency medical care services and will provide quicker, shorter accessible times in all cases where life is at risk. Finally, let me especially thank all those who participated in the public debate and give us constructive and good comments that we will take into account meaningfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u24	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! In the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we signed a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in order to clarify all the uncertainties and accessibility to emergency assistance for the population in relation to the reorganisation of the emergency medical service in the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Health concluded with a public debate on the proposal for a regulation on emergency medical care, the adoption of which is the responsibility of the Minister. In Novi Slovenija we agree that it is necessary to adopt a regulation because Slovenia will have 12 emergency centres and 18 satellite emergency centres at the end of the year. We also believe that such changes need to be addressed with a great deal of sensitivity and a great deal of involvement of all stakeholders who are expected to be affected by this reorganisation. According to the Regulation, the response time in certain rural areas will continue to increase, resulting in a higher number of deaths and more complications. In all professional studies, response time is shorter than 6 to 8 minutes associated with better survival. We understand that there are and will always be differences in response times between the countryside and the city, but it is unreasonable that the regulatory changes also extend the time required by the professional public. It is the duty and duty of the State to ensure equal access to emergency medical care in more remote areas as well as to provide night and weekend duty. If we are equivalent to paying taxes, we cannot agree that some help will be given three times faster than other citizens. It is necessary to listen to local communities, as well as family doctors, who point out the inconsistencies and shortcomings of the draft Regulation. The role of the first intermediaries is also unclear. Leaving medical care to rescuers without a doctor is a step backwards for our country. Thus, there is hardly a region where the announced changes would not be resisted, particularly as regards the location of satellite emergency centres foreseen by the Ministry. The petitions against the reorganisation of the network were thus signed in Ormož and Kamnik, which are without a duty centre, in Postojna, Logatec, Cerknica and Ribnica. In the Upper Savina Valley and in Kozianska they require better coverage of the ground with on-call medical teams and point out that no emergency medical care would be available in 80% of patients in 20 minutes. Poor coverage of remote areas is also concerned by Pomurce, as no satellite emergency centre is planned in the region. They also oppose the reorganisation in Posavje. In Nova Slovenije we believe that the Regulation is prepared unprofessionally and superficially. We call on the Ministry to take a thorough look at the comments of both doctors and local communities and to draw up such a regulation to ensure that all citizens are treated equally. By no means will we agree that human life is measured in miles and money. We support the proposal for recommendations in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u26	Hello! Yesterday we witnessed the so-called debate on the Committee at the request of the SDS drafters on emergency medical care, and in particular on the Regulation, which is of a kind, unusual and unusual nature. If we quickly calculate how many ministers we have in the country, if I subtract one that does not adopt some very specific rules, and if we calculate that each minister adopts an average of two regulations per year, let's say that one more, the other less, is 30 rules per year. Now, let's calculate that we have an extraordinary session for each rulebook and a plenary session, and two extraordinary references before that, because we need to discuss something that everyone in turn recognises that they do not get to know at all. That's how everyone starts: we're not from this profession, we don't know the best, but people are turning to us, and they're warning us that we're going to be out of on-call doctors and stuff. Yesterday, I myself attended this debate and listened very carefully to both the Ministry and the professional public, and came to interesting conclusions that would have caused a lot of people to have a headache and be interested. But as usual, we all focus on just a basic problem, everything else that goes on around us, and we don't care how it happens. Yesterday we discussed in particular when the Ministry's representative told the data that they were in the public debate themselves when they used numbers and data, how many cases they had across Slovenia in on-call services, that some began to correct that they were not actually real data. They even said when they found out that they had forwarded them to the Ministry themselves, that they were likely to have made mistakes and that they were not the right data and so on. Why am I saying this? I speak mainly because if this data is not correct and if it is necessary to find out more precisely which data is relevant, I wonder how the accounting of services is done on the basis of certain services, if the data are not at all correct. How do they charge medical bills in a health care facility, if the data are not consistent with the data they send to the Ministry of Health? This is a bigger problem for me, because I am sure that every time a government, regardless of political color and ideology, whenever it deals with the issue of health in the country and the organisation of these services, will not go far enough and in such extremes as to go even to destroy what is good. As he mentioned in the Committee yesterday, Dr Bručan said that he was most dismayed at the fact that he was destroying himself, which had been done well since 1996, when such a regulation, which dealt with these issues, was first laid down. Of course, he did not say what others told him that even in 1996, when something similar happened today, when there were different conceptual aspects of regulating emergency medicine, there was chaos. Indeed, everyone feared something they did not know and was not in practice tested on the ground whether this matter would work or not. It is also interesting today to listen to the proposalers when they so vehemently explain what is right and what is wrong, and they fear that in remote areas the first aid they will need will not be well taken care of, and not least that we are all taxpayers and that we all have the right to equal health care or first aid. Let me say that in 2009, when the SDS had its Minister of Health, they adopted a resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023, in which they planned 9 emergency centres, not as many as it is today. Even the one they're fighting for today is the Ptuj Emergency Center, they didn't plan at all. That's why I think such discussions in a sort of way are a little overturned, that they are very smart today, when some things themselves have not been planned in the past. Moreover, in 2007, when a serious agreement on the reconstruction of the Ljubljana ER began, they went even so far — and Mr Bručan, the then minister, did not grapple, nor did he do anything about it — that they wanted urgent medical assistance to be removed from the emergency service so that it would no longer be there because it was disturbing because it had taken too much space. So much for the perverse ideas that some people have today, and today they're sending away what's right and what's wrong, but at the same time they keep repeating that they don't know about it and that they're not being professionally called to these questions. I am sure that the rules, especially when they are in the drafting phase, do not belong to a plenary session of Parliament, for one simple reason – because they have not yet completed all the professional decisions at the Ministry. Therefore, it is time for the ministry to give room and peace, not least, to complete what they have to do. I believe that they will lead to a conceptual difference and that it will be different. It will be different, especially in the part that family doctors themselves always say they would like to do the work of a family doctor and would like to have more time for a patient, not that they are on duty at night and at night and perform an ambulance in the afternoon. Now all of a sudden, there's a problem if we want to solve these issues. On the other hand, we don't say that it's really a financial problem that Fides cooked. Have Fides attribute this homework to himself, because in 2008 he agreed to this price, thinking that when he leaves his family doctor on duty, he will settle the issue of salary quotas and will achieve some proportionality with other colleagues doing similar or different work in other areas. This is a key problem that cannot be ignored. Of course, the mayors were also warned when they warned that they did not want anything taken from them today, at least those who were the loudest. It is true, however, that it is very dangerous, for two reasons, to give such a warning. For the first time, because of the fact that laymen, citizens and citizens who do not know emergency medicine and even fewer organisations are impressed that they will lose even a healthcare home, a doctor and so on. On the other hand, the proponents seem to me to be such an underappreciative attitude that the firefighters will become the first intermediaries, once again extremely perverse. I hope that if you have at least a fire extinguisher at your disposal, that it will ever help you when you need this emergency help, so please do not abuse the fire extinguisher's profession to get it into the rulebook and that this way you will politicize and popularize the problem you want to bring to a close, and this one alone is to prove that the new regulation concept is simply eliminated. And all of a sudden, we start talking about local problems instead of the whole system, how to fix it for the whole country. I am confident that the Minister and her team that is preparing this Regulation will come to some final decisions, and that it will be time, when the Regulation is adopted, to implement it and, finally, with certain preliminary tests, to be carried out, or to abstain from such a system. I myself believe that the experience they have in the world and have proved to be good, with our knowledge and with our practice, needs to be adapted to our territory and our way of life in order to make things work. And what is important about the emphasis itself is that it is time for politics to really remove its fingers not only from the economy, but sometimes also from narrow professional issues, including the rules governing emergency medical care. Because if politics still decides how and how a matter should be organised, then we will soon come to the conclusion that every project that we want to bring to an end in the country will simply be doomed to failure, just because some will not fit. Today I guarantee you, and also as a member of the opposition's parliamentary group, I am sure that in the end the rulebook will not be liked by everyone. He can't be liked by everyone and he'll never be liked by everyone. However, it is very important that it has the professional basis, that it also has the majority support and that it will in practice bring better results than we have today. These are the indicators for me that we can say are acceptable. And when we stop discussing the rules in the National Assembly, then we are on the right track, because the minister is responsible for the regulations, not the National Assembly. To talk about the need for Members to discuss everywhere and whenever and anything – at the principle level I agree with you, but, on the other hand, it has always been the beating of an empty straw, because in the end we have found that we always debate on the fact that we have too little data and finally no solutions, but many manipulations and word conversions. At the very beginning of the proposal, it was felt that, instead of saying that we had received a substantial number of answers yesterday to certain questions that might have been unclear before yesterday, they had started differently. They started with a famous sentence. And they've already started to communicate differently when they've seen the Short, on such important topics as health and the first emergency medical care, where citizens are saved lives, we can't afford trips like these, and we can't get political points out of this. [[....]] We're gonna need that help tomorrow. I believe that things are working today, but there are a lot of unnecessary holes that we're going to fill with a new rule, I hope, I believe. Those who know what this means will understand, those who do not will today speak much, much, or even too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u28	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens! First of all, I would like to say to the public that we are not discussing or deciding today on the emergency medical rules, but on the proposal for recommendations concerning the implementation of emergency medical assistance submitted by the applicants, the SDS and NSI. In the SMC Group, we believe that every comment, suggestion or proposal to a new emergency medical service regulation is important, whether comments on the reorganisation of emergency medical care are made by the profession, local communities, other interested public or by the opposition. We believe that every argument must be considered and assessed in terms of justification. That is why we stand even more firmly behind the decision of the Minister of Health and her team to prepare this draft emergency medical regulation to introduce a longer transitional period, precisely to adapt the emergency medical care service gradually to the new concept. On the basis of the audit to be carried out after the end of the transitional period and on the basis of reliable data, for example on available times, it will be reviewed and examined if the emergency medical assistance network is to be modified to ensure that all citizens are treated as best as possible. After many discussions both in the National Assembly and in the media area, we are all aware of the fact that the current situation remains unchanged during this transitional period. So the current situation remains unchanged. What does that mean? In practice, this means that existing so-called outpatient clinics in health care will still be open, even at night and also at weekends and even at holidays. What is most important about everything is that the new emergency medical arrangements will not make it worse for anyone, but that a large majority of citizens will be taken care of significantly better. Most important of all, as far as all citizens of Slovenia are concerned: for the critically ill and potentially critically ill, the possibility of survival will be much greater than it has been so far. Since we believe that the new Emergency Medical Service Regulation will ensure better, better quality, more uniform care for all emergency patients throughout the Republic of Slovenia, we will support only the part of the recommendation that does not prevent further work of the Ministry of Health in the SMC Group in order to establish a system that will provide equivalent care for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The motioners have just tabled an amendment to which they are trying to include everything Members have already rejected on the Health Committee yesterday. We will therefore vote in the SMC Group against this new amendment of the SDS Group and once again vote against the proposed content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The Slovenian Democratic Party drew attention to the medical profession in the field, the representatives of local communities and the indignation of citizens and the citizens of the initiative of the three meetings of the Health Committee, on the subject of the draft rules on emergency medical care. The conclusions that we have drawn from the profession's warnings, I stress, the professions that we have proposed to the Committee, and unfortunately the fellow Members' meeting of the Health Committee have not been supported, despite the fact that, in the debate itself, the Members have pointed out the irregularities and also the uncertainties of this Regulation. Now understand all this, if you can, this coalition of ours. The very preparation of the draft regulation, which took place in great secrecy and without expertise from the field, the press conference at which the Minister presented the draft draft with her project group, as well as the public presentation of the rules in the field, were very excited by both the professional public and the citizens. All this dissatisfaction is reflected in the argumented opposition of the current providers of emergency medical care and on-call services, the Association of Health Services of Slovenia, the Medical Chamber, representatives of local communities, various associations such as the ZDUS and the Chamber of Commerce, and, last but not least, which should be taken into account by the Ministry, is a great concern of users, says us citizens. First of all, the Ministry and the project group should be aware that we are all equal under the Constitution and all citizens have the same right to health care. Therefore, we cannot accept the fact that, by this regulation adopted by the Government, the Ministry divides us into first-class and second-class citizens. Thus, the most vulnerable group of people would be placed in an even more neglected position under this new rule. Therefore, we must by no means allow the environment that is already most affected to be taken away from the periphery by emergency medical care and the doctor on duty. We believe that the regulation of the emergency centres is essential. Finally, we have received approximately €41 million for the construction of these emergency centres by the European Union and we must also justify them by the end of this year. No one's going to deny it. However, we suggest that the current emergency medical system remains the same as it is. The current emergency medical system is good. If anything, all you have to do is upgrade it. I would like to point out that this is an opinion of the profession, not of us politicians or laymen. Disengagement of duty would greatly, greatly reduce the standard of health care in the periphery. In 1996, for the first time, a network of emergency medical units was created. So we would have gone back 20 years with this rule and practice. So far there have been 61 emergency medical sites in Slovenia with a 24-hour doctor presence. According to the new regulation, there are only 30 of these, namely 12 emergency centres and 18 satellite centres. This clearly points to the fact that the accessibility of uninterrupted health care beyond urban centres will be significantly, significantly worse, and that is a fact. Article 5 of the Health Act provides that the public health service network at the primary level shall be established and provided by the municipality. It is therefore illegal for the Ministry to shut down the network of on-call homes without the consent of the affected congregations. We are also asked what professional criteria the project group has taken into account, what was at the forefront – finance, money, or health care of citizens. The draft Regulation shows that it does not take into account the actual structure of the population, does not take into account the geographical, demographic and transport conditions and territorial distances from the emergency centres and, most importantly, the actual health needs of the population. Of course, we are still aware that there will always be differences between urban centres and the periphery alone, but this is a matter of people's lives and, finally, a violation of fundamental constitutional rights, which the rule of law still denies in one way or another. However, according to the comments made, the Minister and the project group, which represented the draft Regulation on the ground, should understand that this draft Regulation everywhere, is at odds with all regions: Primorsko-internal, tolmina and bovške region, Gorenjska, Zasavje, Upper and Lower Savinjska valley, Mežiška valley, Podravje, Prekmurje and so on. Some regions have announced the possibility of judicial proceedings, some have expressed dissatisfaction with petitions. From all regions, protest letters were also sent to the Ministry with many, many comments. So all regions have common resistance to such a draft regulation. In the countryside, it's kind of hot. Finally, I would like to point out, again, the profession that the project team and the Minister should have taken into account in preparing this regulation: that this regulation is designed to violate the Constitution and the legislation in this area; that the rule is unclear and too loose; that there is no prepared analysis of the advantages and weaknesses and possible shortcomings of the new emergency medical assistance organisation compared to the existing situation; that it is substantive, organisational and financial; that it is a matter of introducing a new, in a practical way that is not previously known; therefore, the question is raised as to whether, in the event of the failure of such a system, there will be a criminal, material and moral response. The profession further notes that the current pre-hospital emergency medical system works well. The survival chain is comparable or even better than some European countries. This is acknowledged by both Italy and Austria. The current emergency medical system reaches an average response time of up to 12 minutes. With the new rule, we extend the time available for most places to or over 20 minutes. What will happen to house calls now being made during the night’s service? What will happen to the treatment of the elderly and those in need, for example, at night only of some help rather than of hospitalization? Nor does the rule cover the area of paediatric disease. The profession also warns that the system cannot be based on volunteers. Even with regard to dispatch centres, it is critical and considers that counseling and diagnosis on the phone is not acceptable. The area of helicopter emergency medical care is weak and unclear. There is also a lack of provision of healthcare at events. The control provided by the rulebook is not in place, as the system that controls itself is never good. The supervision must be carried out by an independent group of supervisors. There is no defined system of education and who will be the cost-bearer and who will be the provider of education. Perhaps we will again witness high-ranking copyright fees and business contracts, this time in the field of health. Nor does the Regulation define or restrict management positions in the new emergency medical assistance system. In view of the participants involved in the preparation of this Regulation, there is a high likelihood of a conflict of interest. Participants involved in the preparation of this Regulation should be excluded from applications for the management posts of the emergency centres. In the light of the Minister's statements, which, at all three urgent meetings of the Health Committee, has promised to coordinate the draft Rules with all stakeholders, we propose to include in the draft Regulation all the relevant comments of the field section which has been ignored, the opinions of the representatives of local self-government and, last but not least, the opinions and comments of citizens in the preparation of this Regulation. We therefore propose that: that today the National Assembly further discuss this subject; that the Ministry of Health, prior to the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, inform the Health Committee of the comments of the profession and local communities and include these observations in the Rules of Procedure; that the Ministry, prior to the adoption of the Emergency Medical Service Regulations, prepare a document on the uniform methodology for the operation of emergency centres; that the Ministry, prior to the adoption of the Regulations of the Health Committee, be informed of the rules on emergency medical care and the rules on the conditions for the implementation of the Hellenic Emergency Medical Care Service; that the Ministry, prior to the adoption of the Regulations of the Health Committee, be informed of the rules on emergency medical care and the conditions for the implementation of the Hellenic Emergency Medical Assistance Service; that, firstly, in those centres where the Emergency Medical Centre is not provided for, maintain the current on-call service or emergency medical care service service; that the Ministry of which the need for medical care services to be recasted; that the measures are carried out from the access to the other areas; and that it is gradually in order of access to the Ministry of health. So, the honourable assembly, honourable fellow Members, in the SDS, we propose that you support these conclusions for the benefit of all yours and our citizens, because it is their health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Say good-bye to everyone again! It is probably not a regulation which would be given public treatment as wide as this Regulation and which would also stir up the opinion to this extent as this Regulation or the draft Regulation. From this, it can be quite understandable what is happening only with the adoption of health reform, and therefore we probably cannot be surprised that we have been accepting it for the past ten years or so. Nor is it among us who would not receive any calls from concerned citizens, colleagues, client friends, acquaintances, what will happen in the future with the provision of emergency medical care. This has certainly had a major impact on our position and recommendations regarding the procedure for adopting this Regulation. At the end of May, a one-month public debate on the draft network and the Emergency Medical Regulation was concluded. During the same month, the Minister of Health visited virtually all regions in Slovenia with her team and presented the planned solutions. We have also discussed this subject several times at urgent meetings of the Health Committee, and today for the first time in plenary session of the National Assembly. At the same time, it would be difficult for the Minister to see that she has not made much effort to draw up a regulation whose adoption is, after all, entirely within her competence and not within the power of the Government or the National Assembly. However, the fact remains that the envisaged emergency medical assistance network and the proposal for a regulation on emergency medical care in the public have raised a lot of dust, a lot of doubts, a lot of concerns. This is about access to emergency health care, which is the basis for citizens to feel safe in the event of serious sudden illness or injury, which is provided by legislation and also by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Already during the public examination of the act and during the visits of the Ministry in the Slovenian regions, it has been shown that there is almost no region where they would be satisfied with the envisaged emergency aid network. Warnings and doubts concerned, in particular, that access to emergency medical care for residents in the rural environment was deteriorating and that the time available would be longer, thereby increasing the risk of health and life in the event of emergency situations. Unfortunately, the arguments of the applicant themselves have not convinced many. It was followed by the signing of petitions against the abolition of the existing NMP regime and on-call medical services and petitions for the establishment of additional satellite emergency centres. Even opinions have emerged that it is a covert centralisation that is supposed to affect rural areas and that follows the systems that we have witnessed in the past, such as the abolition of some of the smaller police stations, geodetic offices, tax offices and so on. This would further push a particular group to the edge of society. I hope and believe that this is not the case, given that the professional criteria and criteria are those which decide on the eligibility of a modified organisation in a given area. Many draft regulations show that they are prepared without adequate data and reliable analysis and even without taking into account the fair territorial coverage and knowledge of the terrain configuration. The considerations also refer to planned dispatch centres and are based on experiences with the Republic's information centres, where there has been occasional deployment of rescue services to the wrong address. The new emergency medical assistance organisation is expected to fully enter into force in early 2019, which means that the state of emergency medical care will remain virtually unchanged until March 2019. At the same time, the Minister of Health committed herself to taking into account the key comments made in the public debate with her team. A second point of the proposal for a recommendation has also been drawn up accordingly, with which the National Assembly recommends to the Government and the Ministry of Health that the competent health committee be informed of the final proposal for a regulation. We must be aware that the proposed emergency medical assistance system is not complete in the draft, as the ministry will be able to assess where and what changes are still needed on the basis of the comments received. In the Desus Group, we are aware that changes in the provision of emergency medical care, which is not yet equally accessible to all residents of the Republic of Slovenia, are necessary. We do not support lowering the standard of emergency medical care where this area is already well regulated today. In particular, we advocate the upgrading and improvement of the rules in areas that are today unconscionable or poorly regulated. One such is certainly the operation of emergency centres, which constitute a step forward in providing a safe and quality emergency medical care service. We are confident that the Ministry will listen to key and meaningful comments from the ground and that it will not adopt a new regulation without the necessary analysis and, consequently, reorganisation. At the same time, it is difficult to imagine that the Ministry would not take into account the key comments of local communities which are legally responsible for the provision of health care in local communities or in its territory. The purpose and purpose of the new Regulation are seen in the greater expertise and experience of teams in providing emergency medical care, thereby improving the quality and safety of patients in need. We are aware that certain differences in access to medical care, whether necessary or not, will always exist. At the same time, we strongly hope that the Ministry will, in preparing the new draft regulation, ensure that it does not create new inequalities and injustices among the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we believe that we must give the Ministry time to draw up a final proposal for a regulation based on public hearing and debate. Today, once again, we are talking about a draft that will undoubtedly be subject to change, and therefore the harsh criticisms that are likely to be heard today are not in place. However, today's concrete and reasoned debate can further help to make this important regulation good and acceptable to both the professional and the general public. Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the proposed proposal for recommendations adopted yesterday on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats are fond of the modern regulation of emergency centres, with an obvious need to build on the effectiveness of the existing organisation level and the operation of emergency medical care in Slovenia. However, it should be borne in mind that in the case of such reorganisations, the lives of people may also be endangered by reckless moves. It is therefore crucial that all conditions for the comprehensive reorganisation of emergency medical care and the implementation of comprehensive emergency centres are met. Unfortunately, this moment cannot be ascertained with certainty that it can be established. The objective pursued by the new regime is our support and it is that critical patients and damaged patients will be provided with quality care throughout the territory of Slovenia. Despite the principle of support for the proposed changes to the system, we must express our concerns and draw attention to the following in our desire to build a system of emergency medical care. The fact is that there is currently a critical shortage of properly trained emergency doctors in Slovenia. Of the required 500 there are now only 100 such experts available. Therefore, medical emergency care at emergency centres should be provided by family medicine specialists prior to the completion of the emergency medical care network. The immediate consequence of this kind of reorganisation is the high risk of transferring family medicine doctors from health care homes to hospitals and thus weakening the family medicine outpatient clinic, where family doctors are now acutely lacking. This could lead to the collapse of the general ambulance network and, consequently, to a great risk to the standard of health of the population. This is a risk that we cannot ignore and recklessly support by the Social Democrats. The next major problem is access to emergency medical care, which is now evenly distributed across Slovenia, as the duty station is organised in almost all health care homes, totalling 62. The closure and centralisation of duty stations in the emergency centres would reduce accessibility for an important part of the population, and would undermine the fundamental doctrine of equality and equality on which the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is based. It is also unfortunate to note that there are also additional problems in the organisation and implementation of emergency medical care in hospitals which hand over the beneficiaries to the various departments of the hospital. However, we agree that the reorganisation of emergency medical care by the introduction of emergency centres is essential mainly in hospitals. We believe that lowering the existing level, which we have already reached and reflected in the success of emergency medical teams on the ground, is unacceptable. The extension of the response time at the outskirts and outside of the city centres is of great concern to us, as are the inhabitants of these areas. The new system must ensure to each of our citizens, regardless of the place of residence and distance from urban centres, the same standard and equal access to the care that an individual needs. Social Democrats, as has been the case so far, agree only on equality and equality of access to quality health care for all residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, within the scope of the options provided, taking into account objective differences that are conditional on environmental characteristics and on a network of emergency medical units. Social Democrats are thus in principle supporting the construction of new emergency centres in the Republic of Slovenia, but we believe that a transitional period is urgently needed due to the many risks that could arise from the urgency and reckless regulation of the emergency medical service at the primary level, which could lead to the breakdown of the emergency medical care network and the network of family medicine specialists at the primary level. It is crucial that the reorganisation is not activated until all the conditions for its successful implementation have been met. That is why we advocate a solution that is also indicated in the Ministry's intention to extend the transitional period, that all 12 emergency centres and 18 satellite emergency centres in Slovenia should first be built, that a dispatch service should be established and made alive, and that a secondary hospital, hospital or emergency medical care should be set up at the same time as regards how to provide additional guarantees that geographical deprivability, distance from the centre will not affect the quality and accessibility of medical care. Once a sufficient number of emergency doctors and financial resources are provided and the emergency medical care network in the field is precisely defined and ensured, the primary emergency room should be combined with the hospital. Until then, the E.R. at the primary level should remain unchanged. We believe that the regulation of the new system follows a goal whose key value is for the well-being of our people. Therefore, allow me to reiterate my principled support for the new regime, which should be accessible and considered. The Social Democrats will support the updated proposal for a recommendation in the proposed text, as adopted by the Committee, but we will not support the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u36	Thank you, Chairman. In principle, the United Left supports the concept of the development of emergency medical care proposed by the Government. However, we do not support the basic assumption that emergency medical assistance will not increase. If the Government had deviated from this mistaken assumption, most of the reservations that the local communities have to change the health network would have been dropped. Some reservations are justified and others are based on unjustified idealisation of the current situation. We must acknowledge that the current system is not ideal and therefore the differences in access to adequate emergency assistance in Slovenia are very large, too large. There are several reasons for this. The equipment of health homes depends more on the financial capacity of municipalities than on the needs of the population and is therefore poorer in smaller health homes. Doctors and healthcare professionals are not all the same qualified to perform emergency medical care. If you say very schematic, treatment in the healthcare home is often unnecessary for the patient on the way to adequate emergency medical care. And go ahead. We are said to be the only one in Europe in that family medicine doctors are working simultaneously in their infirmary and performing emergency medical care. I guess we all remember the case of a legally-convicted doctor who didn't go to the field because she was busy in the infirmary. Such cases must not be repeated. In the current system, not only emergency medicine, but also family medicine, suffers. Research shows that Slovenian family doctors die too early due to overload. They would probably show the same research in nurses, so both of them need to be unloaded. The emergency health care system is broken down. This means, in particular, that there is no uniform coordination of emergency medical services. Reaction times are longer than they could have been. In doing so, there is no need for medical attention in every health care facility. This problem needs to be addressed by the establishment of a single dispatch service that will have a complete inspection of all vehicles. Today, emergency medical care is provided in 76 separate units. One is within the jurisdiction of the State, the other within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, and therefore the equipment is not obtained by common procurement but individually. This, of course, raises prices and increases the possibility of corruption. The development of the network depends not on the needs of the people, but on the financial capacity of the municipalities. In the United Left, we support all measures to remedy the system's errors, notably the following. Implementation of uniform higher criteria for the execution of emergency medicine for both doctors and other healthcare professionals on the team. The concept of specialization for emergency doctors has been chosen, which some experts criticise. Well, given that it's already going through, you need to get the maximum out of it. This can be done mainly by keeping doctors and other healthcare professionals in contact with practice. One of the biggest shortcomings of the current system is that family doctors are not trained enough, and in particular consider too few cases to reach sufficient levels. The circulation of personnel, which is envisaged to ensure sufficient skills, should therefore be carried out, but not at the expense of the rights and family life of healthcare professionals. The introduction of a single dispatch service, i.e. the uniform control and direction of ambulances – as I know, this solution is not particularly controversial for anyone and no one claims that the existing system is better. Eliminating the system in which the family doctor works simultaneously in the infirmary and emergency medical care, and replacing it with a system of real emergency centres, complete and satellite. This discards the unnecessary travel of patients from the general physician. The key element in this system is triage. Each centre must have a graduated nurse who will classify patients according to the urgency of the case. All of us who have ever been to the great Slovenian urgents have probably noticed that there is a patient left on his own, that most of the system that comes before is valid. If these measures are implemented, the level of emergency medical care will generally rise and the problem is, of course, what will happen in specific cases where the old form of emergency medical care is eliminated. Under the line, this is the essence of this system: today we have 12 hours in clinical centres and general hospitals, we have about 60 health homes in which emergency medical care is carried out in the framework of conventional clinics. Following a change in the system, 12 emergency centres and 18 satellite emergency centres, which are otherwise not complete emergency centres, are comparable to emergency centres. They have a prescribed team led by a specialist in emergency medicine and prescribed emergency equipment. This is supposed to be a step further from the current infirmary through health care. The service we receive today at 12 locations is supposed to be available at 30 locations. The satellite center is not a pure equivalent of the emergency centre – it does not have a hospital behind it – but from the point of view of emergency medicine is a good approximation. This was explicitly confirmed at a meeting of the committee yesterday by a member of the section of the Ministry. Given the presence of the minister, we will consider this an official promise of the government and coalitions. The weak point of this system is that it eliminates the constant presence of a doctor in approximately 40 health homes. Although change is not as dramatic as it sounds. The general ambulance will continue to operate in all health homes on Saturday and Sunday, but it will no longer work at night. Therefore, the term uninterrupted healthcare is misleading. This is not uninterrupted health care, but daily health care. It has to be admitted. However, the statistics of the Ministry clearly show that there are significantly fewer patients in the night than there are in the daytime. Doctors are said to have between zero and three patients on watch in smaller homes. Moreover, the vast majority of people who come to the emergency room are not emergencies. These people can wait till morning. Of course, the devil is hiding in detail. Sometimes you just can't decide if the case is necessary or if it would be better to wait. So it can happen that someone who goes to a health center today will not go to a satellite emergency center because he will wait for the morning. And for this category of people, accessibility is getting worse. This can be partially resolved through human education and, in part, by increasing the number of satellite centres. This does not mean a satellite center in each village; there are some objective criteria. Satellite centres should be where municipalities have already invested in infrastructure, where the base should only be upgraded. The satellite center must be where the gray fox is on the map, where accessibility is poor. Yesterday, a member of the Ministry's section of expertise said that the Ministry's goal was also to make satellite centres more. He mentioned the possibility of introducing some intermediate form, so-called mini-satellite centres. This brings us back to the wrong assumption of this government that I started with. It's not going to be possible without an increase in funds. For this government, however, there is an increase in the funds for taboo health, and it does not hope to imagine that. However, this optics must be rejected and reversed. Emergency medical care is not a cost. Loss of life or disability is not only a human tragedy, but it is also a major financial loss to society. Investing in emergency assistance is, simply put, paying off. The government is responsible for implementing social priorities. In Austria, 8.5% of GDP is spent on public funds and only 7.2%, although we have twice as much GDP. We need to increase public health revenues. The measures here are clear: eliminate complementary insurance, introduce a solidarity public benefit and modify the system of contributions in the medium term, so that we will no longer have a uniform level, but progressively, as is already the case with income. This solves the problem of the payment of emergency medical care services, which go under the burden of the Health Insurance Office. However, from the integrated budget and from European resources, we need to provide infrastructure, both state-owned in hospitals and municipal in health homes. It is necessary to end the practice of all governments so far to take the same measures everywhere so that they do not resent any interest group. At yesterday's meeting, the Committee adopted an updated proposal for a recommendation, which left only the Ministry's duty to report on the follow-up to the Rules of Procedure to the Health Committee, which, of course, cannot be contested. In doing so, it is positive that the Committee has not adopted the recommendations, as proposed by the SDS and NSIs. In particular, the eighth point was totally unacceptable. Lowering the contribution rate in regions with poor access to emergency medicine would make the situation worse in these regions. At the same time, we would undermine the solidarity system, which ensures that everyone contributes according to their capabilities. However, we are not satisfied with the recommendations in the current form either. Without all this circus, what we will achieve with them could be achieved either by a question from the Member States or, in the extreme case of an emergency meeting. The adoption of such empty recommendations is an evaluation of the legislative work and we will therefore abstain from this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u37	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The speaker has the floor, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much. In the context of the positions of the parliamentary groups – President, you were not then the chairman – Mr Hainz could also stop or warn Mr Möderndorfer, because this was not a position, but a controversy. It would also be advisable for the President to continue to keep the same order for all. However, as far as the views are concerned — those who did indeed have opinions — it is also apparent that even within the coalition a particular party does not support the rule of law or at least not in such an implementation and in such a procedure as this rule is prepared. In fact, it is noted, even more broadly, not only today in the National Assembly, that this regulation has been adopted or has not been adopted – we heard yesterday that it is a matter of adopting a regulation, so I apologize – that this draft is prepared without coordinating with the Medical Chamber in order to coordinate with the Community of Municipalities, the Association of Municipalities. Otherwise, the Ministry's representatives keep nodding in the face of these allegations. If it were true that this regulation was aligned with all those who are professional public, then the National Assembly and the Ministry would not get, as I showed yesterday, so many comments, would not. These are the comments printed on both sides. And if you don't believe me, I will bring to you all these comments, the Fire Unions of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the anonymous letters you take, but don't quote, the world of the Sava region, the ZDUS, the society for better health, various petitions and so on. Representatives of the Ministry, please stop this noding if there are no comments. Maybe they're not there for you because you don't answer them either. You do not answer the letters of the congregations. I am addressed by the mayors, including our congregation of Šentjur, who say that they have sent two letters to your ministry in the month, and I think there is no answer to February and also later. It's like you're not taking them seriously. You are reminded that in this congregation, someone will now appear to care for a congregation, but I am chosen in this congregation. And yesterday on the committee I also made it clear that it is necessary to fight for those where you have been elected, but also for all the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, while some in the coalition, Members, have a wise silence, because they have received an emergency centre and it is okay for them, but we are not. You need to represent your own area, I think, first. So, 24? 2 The letter of the Magi came from our congregation. Dušanki Petrič – there was no answer to this letter – where you are asked for a new rule. Although you claim that the new rule does not terminate the 24-hour service, I wonder if then we read different rules. In fact, it says, as I said, 24 hours' service is cancelled one year after the start of the emergency centre. And also from this congregation, because they are threatened with halting emergency medical care in a health care facility, they are interested in how it will be handled primarily for chronic and palliative patients who are more difficult to move and immobile, how health care will be provided in nursing homes, how patients will be provided from Friday morning to Monday morning, and so on. That's one thing. The second thing that has been reported to our proponents is that we use firefighters, lead them on and deceive people with this, that firefighters will be the first intermediaries. The one who declares this, please read Article 53 of this draft Regulation, which clearly states who is training as intermediaries. And when you wrote this in this article, you did not cooperate with the Fire Department of Slovenia, nor with the Ministry of Defence, nor with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Protection. And that's why you got 22. 5th from the Firefighters Association of Slovenia protest letter. As far as the first intermediaries are concerned. I agree with what my colleague said: we'll be happy if anyone can help us. Absolutely. But if this is written in some rulebook, even though it is only a rule adopted by the Ministry, I think it is wise, prudent and good for the Ministry to align it with all those involved, in this case with the Fire Department of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence. You are constantly pleading for a transitional period, which will now be extended by one year. You're ready to do this now. Madam Minister, yesterday on the Health Committee, you said that this was the only thing you were prepared to do. For all the other things you have said that we may see some of those comments that are of importance, but given that you have persisted stubbornly in this Regulation or in this organisation of the emergency medical care network, we find it difficult to believe that these comments that came during the public hearing and debate and even before that, because you promised to take into account, already in February, at the extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee, that you would take into account the comments made on the Committee at the time, I think, the Medical Chambers of Slovenia; Dr. Možina discussed there. Then this was the area of Ormoža, Haloz, I do not remember all of them, but also the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. From then on, from February until the presentation in April 22nd, you did not take this into account. And then it's hard to believe that you'll take any further action. The next thing is that, even in the Regulation, for example, in Article 7, you say that these response times are based on expert analyses, professional data, on the basis of professionally justified criteria. I would very much like to see these professional criteria. Yesterday on the committee, I highlighted the issue: On what professional criteria, professional bases, research, analysis have you prepared this rule? Where have these analyses been officially published, in a medical journal, or elsewhere? That we can see a map of the Republic of Slovenia with all the currently operating NMPs, response times, demographic coverage, compared to what should be done under the new regulation. Next thing. The rule is not made on some basis, not human resources or financial. Today, Members have even spoken about 500 doctors. Well, you were talking yesterday about 300 doctors that are needed so we don't have them. According to the data, we are able to educate about 580 emergency doctors within 10 years. You need 300. Then you can calculate how many years it takes to cover this new network with personnel. The same goes for finance. There's less to finance, different guesses, and those guesses are just because you don't give the exact numbers. Where will our health care receive money to reorganize the emergency medical care network? We have received money for emergency centres from Europe, I hope to build them by the end of the year, too, but I'm afraid that's all. We can do this very well in Slovenia with European money, walls, maybe equipment, but not content. This is also shown in the Emergency Centre of Brežica, which still does not work because they do not know how to work if we tell you more at home. Single methodology for the organisation of emergency centres – where can this methodology be obtained, how do emergency centres work? As you also refer to this single methodology for the organisation of emergency centres in the Regulation. This methodology should also indicate how the SUC will work, which doctors will be included in the SUC, who will put the equipment in the SUC. I looked up a little bit on the Internet, but I couldn't find the official document of this single methodology. I only found working material from May 2014, but this single methodology for the organisation of emergency centres has no record of how the SUC is supposed to work. It's not even mentioned. In the Regulation, however, you specify that the SSC is extended by the time of the emergency centre. You're saying that we're separating family doctors, that now they won't be going to emergency medical care. Then I don't know. Then I really ask you, in the second paragraph of Article 6, it says that the NMP is included in the regular work, in the second indent, a doctor specialist in family medicine or general medicine. But you're telling me that the family doctor will no longer work for the NMP! That we have only emergency doctors, the 300 we still don't know where to get them. The next issue, which was also mentioned in the debate and, for example, the representatives of the SD do not agree with this, is the extension of response times. So we're all talking about it when we're talking about extending. Because none of us have what I've asked you to give me – the current state of response of the NMP. But all these comments we received from health homes, Medical Chambers and so on – they all give the same information. I don't know if everyone's cheating on each other. That's 11 to 12 minutes in the countryside. If I refer to a letter from our healthcare home, the response time is 11.7 minutes. You will write in the Regulation in Article 7 after these expert analyses or bases that this is 20 minutes in the countryside. Yeah, I agree with everyone who said that it's not even now. That's definitely it. But if it's not the same now, and now it's not arranged as it should be, why is the new rule making it even worse?Oh, my God! Why don't you cut that reaction time from 11 minutes, I don't know, to 10? But no, you wrote it down at 20. Pediatrics – you didn't answer me yesterday about pediatrics as if it wasn't, but it was necessary for the children to be in the emergency centres. What's up with that? Please, if at last today you only replied that even so far the pediatrics have not been regulated, but this is not the reason that it will not continue to be regulated. [[...]] New regulations or new laws are designed to improve the situation in a given area. And if the pediatrics haven't been fixed by now, then the new rules will settle it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Hello again! Personally, probably like most here in this Chamber, I support the ministry's efforts to prepare a new emergency medical regulation because it is simply necessary. It is likely that with some of the practices that have been avoided, it is necessary to stop once. There was a lot of talk about them, not least about on-call family doctors who were carrying out emergency medical care in parallel, about the complications that had arisen in this regard, but also about the placement of emergency centres, which, as has already been said, add value to the treatment of the critically ill or injured. This is the purpose of the Regulation, but not, which often interferes, on the one hand, the duty of duty and the provision of emergency medical care. We're talking emergency medical care. Emergency centres are the only ones that have made it possible to come up with a better system. Without them, it would simply not work and we would not be able to discuss the subject. I must say that it is quite easy for me to discuss this position, given that we as Members are not responsible in any way in this Regulation, because we neither accept nor confirm it, but we can also express our views at this meeting of the National Assembly. The debate that took place showed some shortcomings. Many comments have been made, and in particular I hope that they will not be understood, not least by the debaters here today, as if they were politically motivated. Personally, I believe that the most often reflected are the pressures, concerns or doubts of the individual population concerned about what will happen to the new system. It's just that we people are oriented in a way that's hard to adapt to change. We know the current, existing system, which is somewhere flawed, but in one corner of our brain we probably accept these shortcomings subconsciously. But we're not very reliable about new things. And here is the introduction of changes, especially changes such as this, always difficult and requires special preparation, special procedures, also in such an area of inclusion of the profession, which was also done. Because of all of this, we cannot report, by no means, bad intentions or bad preparation of this project, because we are still talking about the draft today and we do not know what the final version will be. We can foresee something in the light of the Minister of Health's assurances that many comments will be taken into account. The fact is that this is necessary and will not work without it. Why so many misunderstandings? I think that certain content may not have been prepared to this extent to explain precisely enough to everyone what this really means, where the situation is significantly better. On the other hand, it is likely that a significant proportion contributed to the fact that, in all field visits and in all good intentions, there was no adequate answer to many questions. I wasn't there, but I'm listening to people who've been to these meetings, and where it's been said many times, if we see it again, we'll talk about it, we don't know it yet. This certainly doesn't inspire trust. What may be more concerned, however, is the position of the profession, which is beginning to doubt that the data is credible, that it is true. On the basis of these data, an amendment was prepared. And if I hear the same as was expressed yesterday by the President of the Medical Chamber to propose a withdrawal or a temporary withdrawal of the rulebook, then we can be concerned, and I believe that we cannot then be surprised that in some way everyone is pulling the brakes so that this acceptance would not occur, which would be a shame. I see a path that would make sense, in that we would first be able to unify the profession, and not only do I think of doctors, but here I am thinking of the whole of it, which is involved in providing emergency medical care. And I am sure that once there is no dissuasive position of profession and that this profession will also be able to answer all the important questions, what will happen to me in a remote area, if there is a cardiac arrest, if I get hurt, break my leg or anything, that there is likely to be a barrier to acceptance or bad will to accept significantly less, and that then, too, politics will not be able to significantly interfere with all of these content, because it will be settled. And once again, I find that health is clearly an area in which we all know each other. I didn't see everyone getting to know each other at banking, and I don't know what areas. But here we all know. I think it is only necessary to take into account the expertise which must reach some consensus on the basis of proposals that are prepared. In all these debates and doubts that have arisen in this regard, the door has been held tightly. Now it would be very bad to insist on the solutions given on one side. My opinion – it can be completely wrong – is that we should step back here, of course not to give up the rule of law, but to focus on those parts that are important in the near future. Personally, it means very little to me if someone tells me to postpone the application of this rule to five years. That doesn't make any sense in five years. Then this is part of the strategy, not the rulebook. The Regulation may have a short transitional period and address the problems present today. However, if we regulate something in five years' time, I do not see any significant progress in this. It makes sense to regulate what is pressing us at this point and what can be fixed immediately, especially because, as has already been said in the debate, we can be aware of certain things. One of them, which was expressed, I have already mentioned, is funding. Look, it's just the emergency centers -- I can say they're the performers' wishes, but I'm afraid they're really needs -- they mean about 300 extra employees, they can do more, which means over 10 million extra money. This money, which we are counting on to be present at the health treasury today, is already too little, and if this does not mean additional funding for these hospitals, which will have emergency centres, it just means further deepening their loss and the problems they have. These are key issues in providing these projects, given that some emergency centres have already been upgraded and that all must be functionally established by the end of this year. It makes sense for me to take another step back so that the development of emergency medical care will actually continue in some appropriate way, with data that will be collected, that no one will be able to challenge and that will not be liked again by everyone. But today there are too many unanswered questions on this subject. Here I would expect a similar move because, otherwise, we will again in some path position that will not be good for anyone, not for continuation, not for progress in the development of emergency medical care, but not for a minister who, I believe, sincerely strives to find a suitable solution in this area. I do not want to be a general here after the battle, because it is easier to discuss this position than from another place, but nevertheless I think it would be good to at least slow down the issue to the point that the positions are professionally aligned, that there will be no big dilemmas open here, but also that the public will be calmed, because in the current situation there is an upheaval of debate and mistrust, which is not only for health, but also for politics and different areas, we probably cannot come to a very good solution in this way. Above all, it is not by excluding the profession or simply by simply reading whether doctors have their own interests, like on duty, like serving, or something similar in this direction. They're also in between, no doubt. But I do hope that most of those who want the patient well, and that the system that is proposed and introduced later on, mean for a patient who is critically ill, more safe and reliable in his treatment. And it would be a shame to get the wrong procedure, the wrong path, the opposite effect, and nothing would have happened. That would be the worst thing that could happen right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Slovenians don't like the word reform very much. In health care, at least that's how I see it, the first stage of it. We have a very difficult time ahead of us. The courage that we have to follow in some way is the one that will play a key role in our society in the coming months, finally starting to change the things we have been alerting us to for years and years. The Social Democratic Government had already drawn up draft reform legislation in 2011, but unfortunately time had run out. At that time, under Minister Dorijan Marusic's ministry, we wanted the Social Democrats to write down these values, to which we are constantly following; I am talking about public, all available, quality health care, and we are constantly advocating this. Let me just tell you my experience. The Novogori hospital or hospital in Šempeter was the subject of discussions at the end of last year, whether it will receive an emergency centre or not. For us, this was crucial, for the region from which I come. Why? Because of the gradual privatisation of health care, we have been able to strengthen it, the one that is accessible to all, even though we can be critical and justifiably critical of it. But this does not mean that we have to be afraid of change or that it should encourage us to start reforming health care, and I see this first step as a follow-up to this goal. I find it difficult to assess that there has been insufficient public debate or that there is no public debate. I don't cover health care in the National Assembly myself, and this is my fourth debate on this subject. Three were performed in the National Assembly and one in the field at the Šempeter hospital. As in Slovenian nature, every time we want to change something, skepticism is more present than some courage or desire to change something. This is also a reflection of today’s rhetoric or of today’s session in general. I am aware of the shortcomings, as my colleague has pointed out, particularly the reaction time and also what will happen in the case of pediatrics. But every document we need to understand as a living organism, and so I see this draft rule. In some ways, I am pleased to support the initiative on a transitional period, which will allow for some way of resolving the anomalies that will take place, that is a fact. I think it would be naive of us to expect that, when this document is adopted, and as has been said, we will not accept it either in the National Assembly or in the Government, to solve all problems. It's not like that. However, it shows us some guidelines towards modernising our health care with awareness, and I think that this is present, that health care needs thorough reform, so that waiting periods will be reduced, response times shortened, that all citizens will have access to quality health. However, those who have more resources will be able to afford at the same time to pay for private health care or even treatment abroad. I find it difficult to be a hoovesman – our poet said only the shoes belong to the hooves – while the profession is not the one that gives the same signals as the right path. But I see it as a process, and I hope it will be a process, I'm talking about the professional public, in a way united, because I know that she's united in order to find a solution. I hope we get to that. This is a purely professional question, and I must personally say that I do not support this role in this. In fact, we are politicians, we are deciding on our conscience, but on the basis of the information we have. I believe that health workers, as we heard on the committee yesterday, have been called upon to find solutions. But we can support them in these ways, encourage them, and seek solutions. I am aware that Slovenia is so specific, despite the fact that a small country, we have individual grey foxes, as we have in health care, in all areas. It is difficult to say that we are all equal, but what country is it that guarantees equality for every citizen? It's not like that. Our personal choice is whether we live in the countryside or in the city, and I find it difficult to accept stereotypes that people in the countryside do not have the same rights because they also have their benefits. Let me mention that I come from the countryside, but I have access to the hospital, thank God, better than a lot of people who live in the city. At the principle level, I support the adoption or support of this Regulation, especially because I think that the Minister and her team should be supported and strengthened by the desire to make changes in health care. I've already mentioned that the health lobby hasn't told its own yet. There comes a time when this one will be the strongest or one of the strongest lobbyists has something to say. I expect this in the coming months when we are going to undertake health reforms, and I hope that by then, in the form that we will also try to harmonise this regulation by facilitating access to public health by the majority of the population, with the knowledge that we will not be able to meet all the needs for sure. But it is important that we create conditions for the majority of the population to have access to health care faster, better quality, and above all the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec, on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much. My colleague told me that he did not support the fact that politics is interfering or that we are discussing today in the National Assembly, but everyone is discussing and looking forward to it, I will say as my colleague Jani said last time, the sun is shining in front of the cameras. As regards what they say is that we are not all equal and that we cannot all be equal in Slovenia, but should remember two months ago when they had very much to say about this equality when they talked about equality of minorities, same-sex. At that time, we referred to equality, but today we refer to the opposite, that we cannot all be equal so that those living in the countryside cannot be treated in the same way as those living in urban settings in relation to emergency medical care. What a duplicity! What a hoax today! Give some thought when you make such statements. You spoke only of equality a month ago, and no one objected to you because we know what equality means or what it means to be treated differently. In this case, rural people will be treated differently and not a minority. The Medical Chamber and the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia warn that 97% of people will suffer from worsening health care. By 3%, but those who are critical will improve.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž German has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. I understand Mrs Godec's fighting, but I have to fix it. When I was talking about equality a month ago, I was talking about human rights. What I'm talking about is equality, which is that we don't all live in the same location, and now we're talking about stereotypes that we want to create that the countryside doesn't have the same rights as the urban environment. I come from the countryside alone, and I am fortunate to have very much the same rights as people in the urban environment. I understand your combat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Ms. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u48	So much to replicate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u49	There's no replica to the replica. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u50	Then there's the debate. We also have the same access under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or should be given equal access to public health.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has Mr Jernej Vrtovec, to prepare Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u52	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Dear Madam Secretary! The rule we discuss about miracles in the National Assembly, you said. See, this is the content that the National Assembly must also discuss, and given this and also the quality of the debates, this extraordinary meeting, which we are now witnessing, is extremely important. For this reason, it is no wonder that the opposition will in the future also refer to the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly on such important matters as, say, the rule of law that you are changing. But you've been very reckless about this. Purposes can be good, but if they're reckless, let's do more damage than profit. Not only does the opposition speak here in this House, but it speaks mainly in the profession. Speak mainly of the profession. And yesterday at the board meeting, we could also hear a part of the profession that disagrees. Here let me draw your attention to the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, which even proposed to you, somehow placed it on your heart, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to withdraw this rule. With this rule you angered a large part of the Slovenian countryside and, as I have already said, also a professional who claimed that the existing rule needed only upgrades and not such changes as you did. So, why today's session? Why did the opposition decide to hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly? Not because we are so fine here on Friday afternoon, but because of our best efforts to do what is our duty – to prevent the acceptance of stupidities that harm people, to the great part of the Slovenian population. By the time this rule is adopted, it will be too late. Then these kind of extraordinary sessions will be too late. Dear Madam Secretary and Team! Even in New Slovenia, as we have already said, we welcome the emergency centres, which are built with the help of European funds. Too bad they haven't been before. We also argue that an upgrade of the Regulation is necessary. Where are we going with this? Where does the opposition pose a problem? Where there is also a problem with the profession, in the network itself, when the emergency medical care is lifted. And whoever suggested, for example, the abolition of emergency medical care in Kamnik has never been in the Tuhin Valley. Take the car from Domžal to Kamnik or more, go to the Great Mountain. Go to the Great Mountain. That's why I'm asking you. Summer months are coming, the Great Mountain will be very popular. This is a very special tourist destination, and I ask you, for example, how in the light of the foretold changes you will take care of the visitors of the Great Mountain, because from Domžal to the Great Mountain you will need almost an hour, if not more. Well, with a helicopter earlier, but that's not defined either. For this reason, I claim that the rural area is justified by rage, totally justified. But you did it by your own stupidity because you went on the wrong assumption to do this rule. You've revolutionized the field yourself, people. The same thing happened, remember the last few years at the property tax. A large part of you, too, opposed the tax. It's completely irrelevant. I will also stress the principle of equality. I would like to point out several times: we all pay the same percentages, about the same percentages in the health register, and tell me why that poor female in the Great Mountain or in the Tuhin Valley or in the Kozjem, who pays the same payments to the health department, will not have access to emergency medical care as quickly as the one living in the city. And yes, the Constitution guarantees equality. And if health is one of the fundamental values, then I want the Government to ensure this value and that, finally, it also adheres to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As experts have said, this rule also leaves medical care to paramedics. This is a big step back for Slovenia. It's the doctor who has the knowledge. We don't underestimate medical technicians, we don't underestimate them. But someone with high school or higher education can't be compared to someone who has completed medicine; because we don't have a medical doctor for free. You also know that despite the knowledge and experience of medical techniques, they cannot legally offer all that a doctor can offer. And you take one big step back here. Yesterday we heard that they took a step forward in Vienna, and we are doing the opposite. This is also a denial of medical care, which is of the utmost importance, and even in my firm conviction it is not exactly in accordance with our current constitution and legislation. Medical care is denied to a large part of the population. This is because the Regulation is made on flat-rate estimates, completely flat-rate estimates. Despite, I'm sure you've continued this very superficially well-intentioned change. And you say that the rule book — from the coalition was this voice — will not hurt anyone. Of course he will. The parishioners clearly say, for example, in Kozy, that this rule will seriously affect them, for they will be 40 minutes away from emergency medical care. Let's take a tour of the Cossacks, and you'll see where this village is. And you'll see how far it is to Celje or Brežice. How much is it? [[advertising from the hall]] 25? Well, you drive fast, come on. Okay. Let's do a field trip, and you'll see what you're really shutting down. Let me conclude by saying that I want what the Medical Chamber of Slovenia wants to do, that this regulation withdraws itself, that all the adoption procedures are done again and that it is done again, that it shows the analysis and the basis on which this Regulation was made. Let's take a step back and then make it five. We agree, and we can also help you prepare this rule, but now let it withdraw at this stage, because you have truly revolutionized all of Slovenia, you have revolutionized it. For this reason, I would like to point out to you that if you insist, in doing so, on your respectable colleagues from the Ministry and on a well-respected coalition, this is not the last debate. It may be the last debate on the draft. I predict, however, that discussions will continue even after this rule is adopted, perhaps in another form of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz has the word to prepare Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that I could almost fully confirm what Mr Gantar, the former Minister, said a few minutes ago, because he calmly and professionally illuminated the problem in its entirety. It is clear that health needs reforms. It is, however, a question, and I myself wonder whether it is right to start this process by creating a conflict in such an important area as the system of organising emergency medical care. Because the fact is that this conflict has arisen, whether it is right or wrong, and not by the lay public, which I think would be a minor problem, but mainly in the professional public itself. Make no mistake, I do not call for the improvement of this Regulation or for the organisation of emergency medical care. I even believe that most of the solutions proposed are in the right direction. But there is one area that clearly emerges, and this has been highlighted several times today. This is a network of so-called satellite emergency centres, which is by no means sufficient to expect a significant percentage of the population of Slovenia and, as I have already pointed out, not even to the professional public. This proposed scheme is considered by some experts, as well as by a number of Slovenian residents, whether they sound nice or not, rather centralistically oriented, and the periphery is particularly affected. For several reasons, as has already been pointed out today, I will not state here the constitutional basis, I think this is inappropriate and even less acceptable. Following the testimony of the lawmakers in recent weeks, we have not seen those arguments justifying this handicap in particular, as regards the white foxes in some areas of Slovenia, as well as the fairly uniform coverage of Slovenia. Certain criteria have been given, but we can say from practice that some do not hold back. I'm going to give one special attention. Some areas are particularly disadvantaged, and this has already been highlighted today. I personally stress Eastern Slovenia. We could have put this whole thing on the table. But I can especially highlight Prekmurje, where I come from. There is no doubt that both the professional public and the lay public are united in that this area is quite neglected. If I mention only the case of the Lendava administrative unit area, it can be found that we have a public institution there, which is already fully in line with all the conditions and also professionally able to cover this area, but it is not in this scheme of satellite emergency centres. If I mention this concrete argument, which does not hold – therefore, it has been said that these dispatching centres, which will now be re-established, are very transparent and will also take into account the possibility of including expert teams from neighbouring areas, and that is probably true. This will probably not be true in this January case, since there are no adjacent units of this kind, since the state border or the Mura River is as such and is virtually impossible. Not to mention language problems in this area, which in particular calls for an approach to this problem to be taken with more attention. And, as I have already mentioned, if I mention the Lenda case, the Lenda health care home is already satisfying all the professional conditions. But to conclude with what Mr Gantar has pointed out: it would probably suggest taking one step back in the preparation of this Regulation, particularly in order to make a qualitative step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u56	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. I will first identify myself until this debate, which, as we have heard, is not the first and is not the second. This is the third or fourth debate in this House, and when you consider one matter in Parliament repeatedly and it gets the whole political dimension, the arguments of those experts who have commented on this rule are lost. I think this kind of debate is already counterproductive. We've heard that we have no jurisdiction. We can make some recommendations to the government, but the government has finally heard all the recommendations, and it has received comments from the professional institutions. Now at these sessions and also at the meetings of working bodies, the government is somehow wasting time. Instead of reading those comments from health homes, hospitals, emergency centers, the government is sitting here. We have half a working group probably with us, they were practically from morning to evening yesterday, and I can say that this week is for them, for the rulebook is lost. They'll probably read those comments again next week. I talked about it yesterday, and I'll do it again. In my view, this rule is part of the health reforms we all expect. The regulation of the emergency service is so important that this regulation can be regarded as reformary. And when we all expect reforms, and some even predict that they will make their reform proposals, I wonder if all reforms will be expected at extraordinary meetings. Because if we do, then there will be no reform. Those who say we want to reform each other, of course you say that with a fig in your pocket. What's even more disturbing about this whole debate is the promotion of this fear, if we lose doctors, we're gonna run out of care. Please. We're not firing any doctors, we're not selling any ambulances, everything's gonna stay here. In short, we just build things up and redecorate because it's a new concept. The concept will be a little different, because we have new emergency centers. And what is problematic about this is that when it was planned to build emergency centres, there was no strategy. We got the money from Europe, in fact, Europe kicked us because she told us to build these emergency centers, because we have them too. We said we'd build these emergency centers, but we didn't ask ourselves what we'd do after that. It's kind of like getting money for a car, and then you say, "I don't know what I'm gonna do with that old car that's still good, working, and I still need it for some roads." In short, you have no strategy. We're going to build, and today, ten years later, after the first ideas that we're going to have emergency centers, we're going to adopt a rule book. And when we do, we already have a whole bunch of opponents. It's best to put it all in the drawer. I am sure that we should have this strategy ten years ago, ten years ago, and it would be clear today that there would be no problem. Today, we would support emergency centres, we would know what the responsibility of health homes will be with regard to emergency medical care and what emergency centres, and there would be no ill will with anyone. I must also define myself to Brežice, which have been mentioned. Colleague Godec, I don't know if you've been to the emergency center before. The Breži Emergency Centre works, so those comments about not working – somewhere I even tracked, I don't know who wrote on Twitter that chaos – is completely depressed. I invite you to come and see him. So far, the director has organised his work well and such findings are completely unfounded. The only thought in Brežice was the reanimobile. The rest of the emergency centres will get it, and in Brežice it is envisaged that it will be in Krskem, and in this regard the hospital also made comments. I propose to the Minister that she study them and that this rule go forward, which is the only right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec, on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u58	Thank you very much. After this time of consideration of this point, I would only expect the Minister to reply to some of the comments or ambiguities that we have made in our discussions now, that we will not wait until the end and that perhaps then we will not repeat the same in further discussions. And I would like to ask if you are ready to join the debate now. Kolega Zorčič, Brežica Health Home and Brežice Hospital sent comments on the Regulation to the Ministry of Health, opposition to the Regulation. Thank you for the invitation, but I will just call Dr. Levojevic's director myself, and I will stop by and look at this chaos that exists in Brežice, which is also recorded in the comments of the hospital and the health care home. So the emergency center in Brežica doesn't work, yet it doesn't. As for the money that Europe has given us for the emergency centres, it probably has kept us busy, because if you take it, you make ten emergency centers quickly, now that we have the money at your disposal. Look, the rule book has nothing to do with the emergency centers. This Regulation does not regulate the work of the uniform methodology of the organisation of work in the emergency centres, and Mr Zorčič, let us finally read the Regulation. We've treated him three or four times, as you say. This has nothing to do with the ER, like you said yesterday, we're against building emergency centers. We didn't! Thank God we have them! But not since 2009, as Mr Möderndorfer said, if he was our minister at the time, then we've got the emergency centres. In 2009, we didn't have a minister! And now you're saying there's no strategy that we should have this emergency centre strategy for ten years. What strategy? Construction, operation, funding, staffing? What? One year you're a customer, you've been a government for eight months, you blew out the first candle, and you're saying that this policy is a health reform. Come on! It's not a health reform. The regulation regulates emergency medical care, which is the right thing to do, and I hope that the Minister, once again, will take all these comments into account. That was our proposal, too. But once again, I am concerned about the fact that, since February, these comments have been constantly in line and there are increasing pressures. And since these comments were not taken into account in the draft regulation, there are also petitions signed not only by mayors, directors of health homes, but also by the economy, which is very interesting. As for the areas that are grey foxes. Mr Laj, from the Lendava region, also stressed the Lendava area at the previous extraordinary meeting. At the Ministry, when there was a press conference, we got a map, and this beak, Lendava, or this work is not even up here. And we were wondering if maybe it wasn't because it didn't go in that frame, so you can't see that there's a SUC here somewhere. No, it's not. The area of Pomurje is completely empty. And as you said, Mr Göncz, as Mr Laj said – unfortunately I do not think that today you are among the discussers so that you can repeat these things again – that in Lendava, if a 24-hour doctor’s presence is terminated in the healthcare home, what does this mean? [[...]] That you have now, you estimate, the availability of 12 minutes to cover Lendava 260 square kilometres, 7 municipalities, 25,000 people, and that this is happening. I beg you, Madam Minister, we may be wrong to read the rules and that this map we have here is wrong and that it will be fixed within a period of not four years, but that it will be corrected until adoption. You also have a gray fox here, say in Bovec. The Bovec is fighting terribly for emergency medical care. He doesn't have it now, and he won't have it then. In Kamnik, Domžalah, this upper part, we said so. We listened to the mayor of Solčava on the committee yesterday, I think. The lady went away very disappointed with the committee. She said there was something about Members saying that the mayors are now fighting for their pocket money, very sad, and this from the Members of the largest coalition party. She left the committee and said something like that to say they didn't care what all those comments were. And we allow this – that the lady comes to the committee, tells the problem of Upper Savinja Valley, Solčava and so on, what a gray fox we are, and we are making a fool of these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Zorčič has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u60	I'd just like to replicate. As for the Brežica Emergency Centre, I suggest you really call the director and order there. Take a look at this organization. True, the adoption of this Regulation is still pending, but until it is adopted, work will be cut down in a certain part of the primary NMP. As for the emergency centres and this rule, you challenge and challenge these emergency centres all the time. You also argue in this way that you say that you are one of the worse citizens, the other better citizens. You talk like accidents happen at home or you mention the Great Mountain. As people from Ljubljana are harmed on the Great Mountain, the Ljubljanaers are harmed. So these implementations are completely inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u61	Ms Jelka Godec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u62	Mr. Zorčič, let's take the rulebook into your hand, read it, and then order to a real emergency center. Now, just this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u63	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u64	Just this. That we are against the emergency centres – Mr. Chuš, this is a gift to you. We fought for the emergency centre of Ptuj, for the construction of the emergency centre, for the city of Ljubljana, but you now think that we are against the emergency centres. And this rule doesn't have five lines with an emergency center! It does not regulate the uniform working methodology of the emergency centres, which is pointed out by all those who will have emergency centres. So let's call your director and ask him!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I listened very carefully to all the debaters, but apparently some of you didn't listen to me, either they didn't understand me correctly or they didn't want to hear me. All this debate, which is being held today, is being held on the draft regulation and on the text that went into public debate precisely to ensure that the final text will be the best for all of us, and that the available times will be shorter, that people will not be in more remote places where they are in an unequal situation today, I will tell you this very clearly – and perhaps sometimes the time will come for us to discuss it, as well as to talk about what kind of control and accidents the family doctor has not arrived on time. We also have cases in court where, according to one record, 15 minutes were available, but it was in fact 45 minutes. And I don't want to be negative because I think positively for the good of our people. Allow me, however, because you have all so referred to the profession that I read your opinion, I think the highest profession in Slovenia that will implement this rule, and this is the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. Let me quote him and read him. "In the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, we positively assess the position of the Ministry of Health that by the introduction of new emergency centres until further changes will not be made to the organisational form of health homes in the provision of 24-hour health care. The rationalisation of the on-call network will be initiated once an appropriate database is made available at dispatch centres, on the basis of which a decision will be taken to reduce the network or the number of on-call outpatients. We believe that such a decision is good at a given time, but in particular it is wise. You can count on our active assistance and support in your efforts." We could talk about what the expert's opinion is. Maybe a few more answers to certain questions. The project of emergency centres began long before my term of office, and it has a very long beard. The first start dates back to 2009. If this project were properly managed, then a project group would be set up to properly manage such investments in emergency centres, in real estate, in equipment, as well as to amend and prepare the entire methodology. And then we wouldn't be sitting here today, and neither would I, when I took over this ministry, be in a situation where we had to urinate relatively quickly in order to make the entire operation of the emergency centre network work, because it is a single whole provision of emergency medical care. We can't separate now, but we can say that we're only going to be doing some rulebook for the emergency centers, that it's not connected. Emergency centres will be without the proper importance of operating if we don't have a rule if we don't have a dispatch service. We did not, therefore, reduce the time available, as we can say, throw 50 million into an investment that is said to be an investment in the economy. In addition, 85% of the European funds will have to be recovered after all. So this was indeed prepared not only for good purpose, but also from the point of view of the profession. If we all plead professionally, we as the drafters of the task force, you, if I understand you correctly, deny professionally the most qualified people working in emergency medical care for 25 and 30 years. Yesterday you could hear members of this task force doing this 26 years live on the ground every day, 24 hours. Isn't that professional from your point of view? Then these are not competent people to draft a rulebook. And once again, please, let's hear it: this is a draft. I have repeatedly assured all possible places that we will take full account of all the substantive comments, the arguments. I also told you yesterday that we are extending the transitional period, so that we do not remove on-call cities anywhere. We're also putting nurses in places where one team is, in case they can go to the field, so the health center won't be closed. And this is some big step and step forward in offering emergency medical care, and no shredded part of family doctors and others. So I really don't understand whether we can communicate in Slovenia, hear and see what good and reasoned things are. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answers. Since you said we couldn't hear each other, let me put it this way: I don't think you could hear. Since people have spoken since November, and also on the Committee on 13 February, then in April and so on, there has been a lot of talk. And also these men who are of the profession, see, yesterday Dr. Možina said that the rule should be withdrawn. [[...]] And I don't agree with that. I still hope, and I still believe you're saying it's a draft. However, doubts are raised that the comments were made in February and were not taken into account in the new Regulation. And if communication were different, if it had been heard before, it probably wouldn't have happened, these protest letters, to what it was yesterday, I reiterate, Dr. Možina said that the rule should be withdrawn. It probably wouldn't have happened. And I find it hard to believe that Dr. Prosen has worked in the field for 26 years. As for what you have read from the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. I got this from them, which was addressed to you seven. 5, 29. 1 / 22 5. and so on, with annexes, with comments on the Regulation. So probably, I don't know, then they're deceiving us and you. I have here a protest of health homes, a proposal of a contractor and so on. And here, with all the comments, I can read: the regulation centralizes emergency medical care; the regulation regulates the provision of 3% of the patients treated annually in emergency medical care, but reduces the supply for the remaining 97%; according to the current system is the first doctor, according to the new system, the first layman will be without formal medical education; the response time from 12 to 20 minutes; do not talk about child medical care; the requirement is for 200 additional emergency doctors, currently 33, and so on. With all the comments made on the Rules of Procedure. So I'm referring to it because I have official papers. I don't talk like that in three days. As for the fact that you said it would always be open 24 hours a day. That's what you're saying right now – that you're giving an extra nurse so people won't stand in front of closed doors. I didn't find it right away, but I'll probably find it in the magnetogram later when you said it would be closed after 24 hours. You or Dr. Prosen. I have to find her. Now, yesterday and today, you're telling me that nowhere will be closed for 24 hours. Now, please let me explain this nicely, because this is the greatest stumbling block or one of them. And these matters were, I think, also by the SD Group of Members in their position. If then it's like you say it's going to be everywhere like it is now, because you're not removing absolutely nothing, so it's open everywhere 24 hours a day, then it's something new. Then do not answer that this is only for a transitional period. It is understood by the rules that it will no longer work everywhere for 24 hours, Saturdays and Sundays, not to close at night. But that's what you're going to find out which ones will be in the transition period, because you're going to be doing the lines there for how many patients have arrived. And where there's only three of them, you'll say enough, we won't have any more because there's no money, we won't fund it. Now tell me what is true – that everything will be open from 2019 onwards, or that it will be so until 2019? Because if you're saying it's only during a transitional period, then you're deceiving people. If this is also after 2019, then this is different. But then it's something new, it's from yesterday, because yesterday on the board, you started talking that no doors would be closed anywhere, that 24 hours would be open everywhere. If that's true, then this is one thing that was our request and is essentially solved. But now precisely define whether this will be the case since 2019. As far as these interventions are concerned. You're saying it'll be better now. I'll tell you again. This case of Kozjeg is constantly here, but in Kozjem they lose urgent medical attention. There was now a response time of 35 minutes. Example of a cyclist on the road in Lesické: 35 minutes to come from Šmarje ambulance. Now that it's gone in that part, the question is, how long will it be? And I have another question: Why can't the first mediators — that's just a question, it just happened to me — even the police? In fact, police get to the scene a lot of times. And it happens a lot – I believe that this is different from man to man, but I know three of these cases when a policeman came and asked how he was with you, and he went away. This case in Gossip was like this. The first agent was a layman, a man who drove in a car, and didn't even know what to hold. The next was a policeman who tried to revive this gentleman there, asked how he was with the gentleman, and went away. That's why I'm asking if the cops are qualified for it or not. I don't know, that's why I'm asking these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič, then Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Much has been said so far, both by the parliamentary groups in their positions and by the proposer and by the Ministry, as well as by the report of the Health Committee. Let me also tell you some of my facts about emergency medical care and briefly present the comments of the Sava region where I come from, the Environment and Health Committee. For me personally and for Zasavje only such a solution will be acceptable so that the future organisation of emergency medical care will not make the current situation worse. It doesn't even matter to the coalition, the opposition. We are not talking about numbers here, we are talking about people, and if they are not provided in time, then there will be more deaths, which we absolutely cannot afford. The new amended regulation, which will continue to be amended, I think, has already said, to take into account the essential comments made in the general public debate. If I turn now to the comments of the Council of the Sava region, the Committee on Environment and Health, the letter I received is quite extensive. They note that the current organisation of emergency medical care in the municipalities of Savova and Lithia and Šmartnom in Lithuania is comparable to the rest of Slovenia. The abolition of the current organisation of emergency medical care in the three Sava municipalities, in Lithuania and in Šmartnom near Lithuania, and the future reorganisation, as shown now, would only constitute a serious deterioration in the access of citizens of these municipalities to emergency medical care, to this emergency centre. All of this could result in more deaths in emergency situations, more deaths in patients with chronic diseases, more deaths in injuries and accidents, and consequently more disability due to delays in the provision of emergency medical care. In Zasavje, it is proposed that an active dispatch centre or two planned for the whole of Slovenia should be established and that, on the basis of analyses of the operation of the two centres, it is necessary to check whether dispatch centres have priority over the current organisation through the 112 call centre. The gradual deployment of the emergency centre is also necessary in such a way that the current coverage of the field with medical teams will not be reduced. Without additional staff trained to work in the emergency centre, the reorganisation means a deterioration in the state of emergency medical care. It is necessary to provide adequate personnel for uninterrupted work in the emergency centre and additional financial resources. They also say that separation of part of the family ambulance, general medicine from the emergency medical care system and the provision of the emergency duty, which is not necessary medical care. Reasonable access time should also be defined when reorganising. At the primary level, the activity of emergency medical care with continuous care is organised at the pre-patient, so-called primary and secondary level. As we said, this accessibility under the rules, 20 minutes, is unacceptable. They also state that only 3% of these cases are dealt with through emergency medical care, while 97% are dealt with in uninterrupted healthcare. They also strongly object to the separation of the population, as I said before, according to the criteria for access of time in two groups of citizens, this is said in urban centres for 10 minutes, in rural centres for 20 minutes, and in some cases much more, which is unacceptable. We need to settle matters here so that time can be provided for this patient to receive timely medical attention. Let me also touch on the comments of the emergency centre at the General Hospital of Trbovlje. Initial investments are not only necessary for the construction and equipment of emergency centres, but are also necessary for investments in human resources. They have problems here because they do not have sufficient personnel to operate this emergency centre. The Emergency Centre at the General Hospital Trbovlje has already obtained a usable permit and has supplied and trained medical and non-medical equipment and is able to operate in this area, which means a merger of emergency clinics, both internalist and surgical, at the single location of the emergency centre. In this way, it will also offer an appropriate standard of patients and a single entry point for these emergency patients. Additional means are also needed to ensure a continuous internalist outpatient, observational and triage clinic and to ensure the presence of a radiological engineer 24 hours a day in the hospital and the readiness of a radiologist. On their part, calculations have already been forwarded to the Ministry of Field Affairs and on the resources they say they should be provided as an intervention in the 2015 general agreement in the form of a monthly flat-rate. And that's it. With regard to the Emergency Medical Service Regulation, it was said that it should also be added to "and to the service of uninterrupted health care at the primary level". I am sure that not all these comments will help, but those essential comments will help to provide timely assistance throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia through a revised regulation by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Dr. Franz Duck and after him Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We have been working for some time on the issue of the construction of emergency centres and the innovations that citizens will bring to us. Emergency centres are certainly a major gain and are an upgrade to the current health system, with which to increase rapid and effective medical, diagnostic and therapeutic treatment. However, with the construction and operation of the emergency centres, there will be a reorganisation of the emergency medical care service. In this area, there are certainly concerns of the local community, health care homes, family doctors who are now working in the emergency medical care system and believe that emergency medical care at primary level is well organised, well equipped and has adequate education and professional staff that enables the provision of a large number of people. The envisaged organisation is expected to abolish the existing network of duty stations in health homes, so health care professionals point out the need for a comprehensive resolution of the pre-hospital emergency medical care system and reject any partial modification of the existing emergency medical care network and organisational and cadre experiments that may also be fatal to the health and life of people outside urban centres. It is also a matter of whether the newly organised emergency medical care will be fast enough and effective especially in the rural, more difficult to access and remote mountain area. Otherwise, there is now an emergency medical assistance for the deficiency. Let me just point out what happened recently in Pomour, when emergency medical care was not fast enough and the relatives of the deceased were physically charged with emergency medical care. So we also need to look at the current emergency assistance. It is the right of all citizens to receive the quality and rapid health care we need at a given time. Therefore, we are concerned about the timely care of patients in case of prolonged response time of emergency medical care and a team without a doctor, only with lazily qualified workers, which could make the patient's condition or even the possibility of survival worse, such as a heart attack or some kind of injury. I agree with the construction of emergency centres, of course. The construction of emergency centres is certainly necessary and we support it. The reorganisation of emergency assistance is also necessary, but it must be thoughtful, professional and rapid. We certainly support the transitional period, but there must be direct monitoring and analysis and immediate changes in the event that anomalies or inefficiency and deficiencies are detected. We are aware that changes are urgently needed in health care. As has already been said, this is the first step towards changes in health care that have been needed and expected for so long. However, it does not show a hurry where we are not quite ready, because the main objective to follow is the quality health care of all of us citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Trček, prepare Mr. Joseph Horvat and then Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I welcome the team of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! Today, much has been said about emergency medical care, something weighty and something small. The United Left is for public health, quality, accessible, without any distinction between us, no matter what location we live in. I could also go to some localist cheerleading, even though I live in Maribor now. You could mention your Belokranje, you could mention Trebnje, you could mention something else, which does not belong in the narrower pool of the proposer where they get the election votes. In the composition of this National Assembly, there is only one doctor in this reference. Ambassador Jani was talking about how we all say that we don't know much about this. [[...]] That's how I got my peas blown – if I use my mother's language – that I'm surrounded by people working in health care working in a pharmacy. I also know about emergency medical care in neighbouring countries, I know about emergency medical care in New Zealand, I know about emergency medical care in Canada. My little cousin was with Rolle in Afghanistan, and I also know about emergency medical care in a slightly different situation. I'm not going to be local patriotic for a change, but when I listen to this story, I remember something that may not have anything to do with emergency medical care, but it does have to do with my basic expertise. In the mid-1980s, the Swiss decided that the train would be that basic public transport vehicle and went to optimize the matter so that no citizen and citizen would have more than half an hour to the train station. People of God, we live in the 21st century, and now it is not necessary to detect hot water that this system is so optimized that these differences are reduced that there will be no such difference between whether you live outside of Bezigrad, whether you live in Duplek, or living in the Belokran village of Zilje, where I was born. I can honestly say, if we're being a little serious, I think we need to go beyond these electoral populisms from which we are from, and think and look in the direction that these things are placed in order to save lives, which is the purpose of emergency medical care. Now, here's the thing about this. There is no single emergency medical protocol. So far, he's gone. And that's why the data is a little problematic. People working on it say that this dispatch system should have been ten years ago. And we're probably going to duck him for another two years, and now here's the question, which gentleman is going to pick up his pennies for this morning, and we're going to debate it again, whether it's quality or not. And he's going to cheat on this concessionaire again, and he's not going to put up enough base stations, and he's going to turn something off again. Another time. There's a rumor here that they'll just be laymen. Excuse me, paramedic status. I think the paramedic is the 33rd grade, the doctor who makes the specialty is 38th, somewhere, 40th. These are people who have schools, these are people who are qualified, and in a lot of richer countries there goes an ambulance without a doctor, if not necessarily. Because the first point is that in a short period of time, the accident, if I put it that way, will stabilize, and in that time the doctor will come. This is, for example, a solution to Kamnik's questions, Domžal. I'm not going back to the story of how they used to do it in Kamnik. But if there's a van in Kamnik, according to your household, it drives into the Tuhinj Valley, stabilizes the case, comes down, and is. Here, my dears, let's stop beating. Firefighters who work by protocol – these are protocols – will come with a defibrillator and will save your life in three, five minutes. That's part of it, too. This draft defines the competences of doctors who have not yet been clearly defined. However, the problem is that you will be very difficult in such a short time, despite this extended period, to educate this frame. For all I know, education for mass accidents is only once a year. I know you're aware of that at the Ministry. The question is also whether you will be able to establish satellite centres within six months. The issue of financing this is also open. If we want to have public health care throughout Slovenia, I think we need to arrange this funding so that there will not be any shopping, how much the municipality will give, how much it will not give. It seems to me that this question needs to be answered quite clearly, because you now have very different views. Some congregations are very happy if you're great that we don't have a satellite, because where would we finance that part of us? It seems to me that this is some part that needs to be financed from the health treasury and that this is very clearly defined. We have heard many times that between midnight and morning, there are no or no cases. There are quite a difference between these individual stations today, where this is happening, and this should also be taken as a lease. The issue, which is a little unclear, is so-called continuous health care. According to recent information from the Ministry, this is to be temporarily extended. In the medium term, however, the question is whether 8 hours is enough or not. It is likely, but it would take 12 hours somewhere, because different territorial units have different density and so on. Let's talk about it and figure it out. Will the system be cheaper or not? You know, I listen to cheaper, cheaper, cheaper. If we've been fighting over water and monitoring since the United Left proposed it, we don't know what kind of water we're drinking – are we going to fight now whether we want to have healthy citizens and citizens, including eraseds and others, foreigners coming to the Great Mountain, whether we want to save them or not? I think we need to focus on that, too. Slovenia has a very dispersed settlement, and this is one area where we should take ourselves a little more seriously within this particular topic. Unfortunately, we're not supposed to have everything everywhere. But it's probably a matter we want everywhere. This is probably a matter that we will ensure in this hierarchy, where we do not want to make differences, because we cannot do them either. This is a question of partial local interests and it is also a question of family medicine doctors who are in the hierarchy of medicine because it is a relatively feminized part of medicine, in this rank slightly lower. They don't have as good wages as anyone else, and they're also with these on-calls, let's face it, payoffs, payouts, loans; after all, it's the most demanding study in Slovenia. I have a daughter who's studying this. Let us also take seriously where we will pay these people in the medium term. This is also a dilemma. If these payment systems within health care were a little more regulated, there probably wouldn't be a lot of these resistances. This is a very similar situation to the sector I come from. You have mandarin and you love it. It's very similar in medicine. Today I have listened many times to the laity and the nurses, up and down — let people be treated with respect. Most people in health care work hard beyond their ability to pay too little, and the system is not good enough not to use a worse word, and we have to face it. Okay, we could go to a helicopter that's going to be regulated by some other rulebook. I come from this part of Slovenia where this is not possible. The issue of dental emergency, which is organised somewhere, is open. In neighbouring Austria, this is some kind of distinction. The worker has bad teeth, but he goes to fix them in Slovenia, and the higher layers up and have good teeth. I could provoke New Slovenia a little bit, but I'd say whether we want an economic system like this or not. After all, this is the input unit with which we eat and are healthy or not. It grieves me very much, although the Minister has openly acknowledged, the issue of pediatric emergency medical services, which are now relatively poorly organised. The minister stated that if possible, it would be organised, and she listed half of the emergency centres we would have. That's unacceptable to me. After all, it's our children, no matter what village they're from, no matter who we love, how we love. It seems to me that this is a matter of some kind, and no one has fallen for it today, where we should clearly say we want to have urgent paediatric medical care throughout Slovenia and the peak. But we're not gonna know what, but we're gonna shut down the Department of Defense because of me. But we're gonna close the wait, because of me, and we're not gonna have that. In short, it seems to me that we have to go beyond these beatings, according to the household statement, who will be given the next term in his parish. We live in an information society, let us optimize the system, let us at least reduce the differences that exist here, because after all it is about life, after all it is about children if I paraphrase a group of Members. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I have a few points to agree with my colleague, Duck. The only thing before you run away from me is the lifeguard isn't a layman. It's about the first intermediaries, the first intermediaries are supposed to be laymen. That's it. As far as the dispatch centre is concerned, I certainly agree that it should have been regulated long ago, and that is why it is also the proposal of the proposer to adopt, at the same time as this Regulation, the rules on dispatching services. However, the Ministry answers that this is not necessary. He's also talking about helicopter service, so there's no need for an act regulating a helicopter service. Then these articles are not necessary in here either. I believe that dispatch service, helicopter service, which is part of emergency medical care and provides quality emergency medical care, quality operating in this area, is an important issue and should be adopted at the same time as this Regulation. However, if we adopt a long-term regulation, as has already been said today, that it will start normal or within those normal frameworks, that it will change for four years and then the matter will finally start to work normally in 2019, then it is questionable when we will receive these rules at all. As for who will pay, you have already written in certain articles that a number of things will fall on the local community. The local community organises awareness-raising, education and training of laymen on the use of AED in its territory. The same applies to the training of the first intermediaries. It is the same – that the local community will take over. I think that the government is putting certain things in the congregation, but at the same time, it's lowering their average. However, you may assume that in 2019, when the matter is to begin to function in those runaway railways, the municipalities will also have more money to finance it. By partly having the answers – the funding of the municipalities, the rest will be found by the ministry. But first, there is still the question of the emergency centres, whether by the end of the year all the emergency centres really start to work, not only is the building and the equipment, but they start to work seriously. However, we may have the next extraordinary meeting on the non-operation of emergency centres in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! My signature under the proposal for today's session, in order to discuss this very important topic, had no intention of being some kind of political beating, as Dr. Trček said earlier. On the contrary, it is that the Members understand our mission. We've been sent here by people, and here we have to tell us what people at home tell us on the ground. That's why there are so many micro-local topics here. It's completely understandable when I was thinking and looking for an answer, why. Why were there talks about the Great Mountain, the Goats, and many other places? Because we're human beings, as far as life is concerned, equal no matter who it is, whether it's, I don't know, a doctor of science or a bum, and wherever he lives. That's what this is about. This debate is well-intentioned, and I am pleased that the Minister's team here listens attentively. Of course, I would also like us Members and our information, which we bring from the ground, to be heard and taken into account. I'm not the kind to just rip up a draft document. I read it. I think I downloaded it on the day it was published on the website. At that time, he had the title of a regulation, not a proposal for a regulation, so I agree that it is right to say a proposal or a draft regulation so that we can modify it. I also welcome, Madam Minister, knowing that your team has put a lot of work into this rulebook, your tour of Slovenia. It's true, you've been good in Rakić for two hours, along with a tour of the emergency center. It was simply not possible to say everything from the auditorium. Even if they sat for ten hours, it wouldn't work. At least I, who will say what some of my colleagues and colleagues have already said before me, have been alerted by experts in this field, in the field of medical science, to the problems that will arise if the regulation, as now proposed, has been enforced. My job is to say this here, because people at home tell me you in Ljubljana, so we sent you there. Should I be quiet? I can't, and I can't be quiet because morale just won't let me. I listened very carefully to Mr. Prim yesterday. Andrea Možino, who spoke on behalf of the Medical Chamber. He wasn't talking to me. He was talking to me. I greatly appreciate this gentleman, and I have therefore printed a magnetogram of his debate. Some of you already got it today. I will quote only two parts of his debate, not anymore. He says, "It's not good that we don't have the analysis, I have to say that. That's what we've wanted so many times. Even those confusing data are not made public enough; they are somehow familiar to me. But it seems to me that with the public, in particular Members, there is a much more frank need to communicate in the field of these conflicting data, as I have repeatedly mentioned that the topic of emergency, however delicious and exciting, is relatively small compared to what follows in the health reform, in particular as regards financial aspects." True, emergency medical care is just a small piece in our entire health system, and I would not like anyone to say that the regulation is already a reform. I really can't accept that. The regulation does not fit in the context of reforms. This is yet to come, and things will be essential, much more difficult. I am pleased, however, that I was present in the 2004-2008 mandate, more precisely in 2006, when our coalition decided to go to a project to build 12 emergency centres. Of course, European funds did not just flow. We had to make a very good argument about what we were building, what we wanted to build with these emergency centres, so thank God we also got a few ten million European funds. This is how we built the emergency centers – for me, laika, it's a box, a black box, a black box. Now we need software, and the software is more important than hardware. However, the software is the people we have at our disposal and we still have to educate them, and of course the rules on how these emergency centres and the entire emergency medical care system will work optimally. That's why I don't take criticism that we went into some sort of decision at the time, some kind of construction of emergency centers, and we didn't know what to do with them. It's for the hair. I must say, a well-respected coalition that you have in this part of the opposition, Nova Slovenija plus the Slovenian Democratic Party, very correct interlocutors – I say to the interlocutors. I would like to remind you – most of you were not here – of when our Minister of Defence, Mr Aleš Hojs, cancelled night shifts in six regional information centres in 2012. If you were listening then or if you were listening to really brutal discussions today, especially Positive Slovenia, you know what decibels were here, what frequencies were there? In fact, it's a completely out-of-comparable thing, ending the night shift. It was rationalisation, and on the other hand, we are talking about this regulation. So I really wish we could be heard. There is no beating, there is no gathering of political points, but we are just doing our job, which we have to do in order to ensure that our lives and that people throughout Slovenia are treated equally. I've also listened here before to the representative of ZaAB, who, by bending his hand, said somehow in this sense, if you sign the minister, publish the book and end what we're going to hear here, crap. This gentleman has forgotten that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana. Thank God Slovenia is also about 230 kilometers away, say eastward, from Ljubljana. My friend Runczek was talking about the problem of population. Of course, all these specifications must be respected by this rule. Only when this settlement, these villages – I'm talking about the countryside, I'm talking about the periphery, as we like to say – are we going to connect with the bumpy roads. Regrettably, this rule must be followed, or it must be a joy. Dr. Göncz and his colleague Laj recently mentioned the position, the geographical location of Lendava. Now someone's gonna say it's your constituency, you're picking up political points again. In fact, we pick political points constantly, with each performance or not. And it was said that if this health care facility is not able to provide for the unfortunate, let's say on a highway that is once again specific because it has no seat belts, and the ambulance is hard to reach the unfortunates, but the neighbors will help. Yes, it is necessary to stand, geographically speaking, in this beak of Slovenian chicken and then see who the neighbours are. The neighbours are in eastern Hungary and in the south of Croatia. I don't know if we'll have any international agreements with them. Sometimes we can help each other when it comes to major elementary accidents, but in this case, I guess not. Today, when we have very modern and also mathematical tools, mathematical models, when we know exactly how much time a vehicle needs on an emergency drive from point A to point B, we can afford simulations of the operation of the rulebook, simulations. But I'm not going to agree to live-testing the operation of the rulebook live, underlining it. Because then my question will be: how many lost lives, how many lives will we have to sacrifice to tell the Test has failed or has the Live Test failed? I don't agree with that. We don't agree with that. As I said on the committee yesterday -- I repeat, because I am running out of time -- specifically, the Lendava Health House, where the founder’s municipalities have recently invested a lot – 7 of them – today all conditions for the establishment of a satellite emergency centre. Dr. Göncz also pointed out the language of minorities. This rule must also be followed. I'm closing with a quote from Prim. Andrej Možine: "We have also informed the Ministry, Madam Minister, that family doctors are very concerned about the birth of this rule. I told you what's going on. But if I don't take too long, I'll cut it short. We propose that the regulation withdraws, that it be complemented in substance, that cooperation with the regions be significantly increased, that compromises be sought, because we believe that this possibility of communication has not yet been fully cashed. There have been many initiatives on both sides." So, we have the expertise, we have the politics, we have the suma sumarum we have one large crowd of well-intentioned comments, so we expect the minister and her team, which, again, I repeat, has put in a lot of work, but the work is not yet finished. Let's all do our best together and make better emergency medical assistance software. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Alexander Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Mr. Horvath said we have a lot of work to do. I agree. When I look at the draft regulation prepared by the Ministry of Health, I think that there is really a lot of work ahead of us and, above all, a lot of dialogue. Any reform, even though it is not reform, or changes in legislation that have a significant impact on our daily lives, should be coordinated, both with the social partners, the professional public and others. In view of the flood of comments that I have also received and reviewed by the local communities and professions, I note and also take note of today's debate as a warning to the Ministry that it will once again analyse all the comments and proposals that have come from local communities and that it will endeavour to draw up the best document. I would expect that, given how much we are listening to from the President of the Government on analysis and study, the analysis that was the basis for the draft would be well done. But the bottom line is, you're also doing a bad analysis. So, let's just chill out a little bit. I do not see today's debate as a debate on emergency centres, but mainly on the rules, the legislation in force. Mrs Godec rightly pointed out that, in accordance with this and with the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, there is still a great deal of other applicable legislation and regulations. We can also talk about helicopter first or emergency care, dental care, and so on. When I looked at this map, where the emergency centres and satellite emergency centres were planned, I noticed some gray foxes myself. Unfortunately, these foxes are the most in the eastern part of Slovenia, and I would like to say that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana. When I hear some Styrian thinking saying that we should make a border on the Trojans, I quite agree when I see what draft rules are being prepared in Ljubljana. I myself support the efforts of the Minister and her activities in the past, so that we had a bunch of round tables, emergency meetings in the field. I think that this has had a positive impact on the dialogue; not on the text, but on the dialogue and the sense of acceptance of this document. But according to the draft we received, we saw that something had been said, but it didn't. Therefore, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a number of grey foxes need to be supplemented before the Regulation is adopted. There was also talk about emergency centres. I have also heard from Ambassador ZaAB about activities related to the Ptuj Emergency Centre. I would like to say myself that I am not chronologically aware of all that has happened over the years, we can say, fog when, despite all my efforts, I failed to find out what was really going on. For the Ptuj Emergency Centre to be built and incorporated into the emergency centres network, I have tried not because I am Ptujčan – although also because of this, of course – but also because of the data and statistics that have clearly demonstrated the eligibility of the Ptuj Emergency Centre. In February and March, we had an urgent meeting of the Health Committee, at which the decision to include the Ptuj Emergency Centre was supported by 15 members of the Committee, unanimously, without a vote against. On the conclusion that we should start building as soon as possible, the Members of the Modern Centre Party voted and, if I am not mistaken, one Member of Desus. But of course, the conclusions are accepted, the Ptuj Emergency Centre is included in the network of emergency centres, and it is very important to approach the construction of this as soon as possible. We can understand from the media that some of the problems are also related to the construction of other emergency centres in the country. In some places, emergency centres are built, but it is not known how it will work inside, not enough trained personnel, and these are problems. However, since we are tied to European funds, it is important that we build all emergency centres by the end of this year, because if one is not built, all will fall. Therefore, the concern we have expressed in the past in our Group of Members is more than justifiable, constructive and well-intentioned. As a citizen, if we were to discuss amendments to the rules on the implementation of emergency medical care, I would expect that this would be part of some specific general health reform. But it's not like that. For the last time, I had the opportunity to attend the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, focusing mainly on the issue of Slovenian health, both on waiting periods and on the issue of non-transparent business in the field of informationising Slovenian health, particularly on eHealth. We have projects that are earmarked for EUR 9 million and then the Court of Auditors finds that they are overpaid, that some acts or services are paid double, and that some services are paid, which are then found not to be necessary. We're gonna have to fight this. But he's late. We have also talked about waiting periods for a long time, and that now the Department of Health Insurance is spending a million or two in addition to putting out the fire and the forest burned down for us, there is also no concrete measure. Therefore, all calls for health reform are still in place. I believe that the train, the one I think would be most suitable to change emergency medical care, has driven away. I would also like to draw attention to the problem of other gray foxes, Lendava. Today, too, something has been said about this and also for the last time at the urgent meeting of the Health Committee, and here I would like to commend the modern centre of the Party to Mr Lai, who said he would not listen to the instructions, but thought with his head and uncompromisingly let the ministry know what was going on with him. I would also like to do this in the future, not that it meets some befel and defends everything, but we all know that everything is not good. The problem is probably in Krka too. We have a nuclear power plant there, and in my opinion, Krsk should be given more attention. I myself have had the opportunity to see the spaces in Krška, where I believe it is an emergency or facility with excellent equipment, with good conditions for work, and it is not meaningful for this to end there. God forbid anything should ever happen there. I would also like to draw attention to the problem of lifting emergency medical care in Ormož. Unfortunately, I was not able to attend the committee meeting yesterday, but I was in the municipality of Gorišnica, which is the neighboring congregation of Ormoža, for most of the day, and I have to say that many passersby stopped me and told me what is now, because we do not know what is going on, which is centralising and that is not right. I think these citizens and citizens have the right to tell us. Because if we look at some points, we can say, without a problem, that it is a centralisation of the country and an attack on the countryside. Unfortunately, this has already become the practice of so-called left governments, which everywhere declare themselves to be social, to listen to people, to be for dialogue, and in the end we all know what we get – always the same new faces. I would also like to draw attention to this – I believe that both the location and the date are very appropriate for me to point out – despite the fact that the comments have been mediated, but I also believe that we, as Members, must defend equality of citizens to defend that everyone will have the right to urgent medical care, not to abolish something. In doing so, I would like to point out that the expert group has overlooked the fact that emergency medical care providers in Ormož carry out activities for some 17,000 citizens living in 84 settlements in an area of 220 square kilometres, hilly, with poor traffic connections that continue to deteriorate in winter times, and that they are heavily burdened by working machines in summer times due to the agricultural area. According to the proposal of the Regulation, assistance to people in rural areas should be offered up to 20 minutes from the reception of the call, but it will only be possible to do so within their area in the areas closest to the Ptuj Emergency Centre when we build it. That's 3 out of 84. Other settlements covered by the Ormož Health House are mostly between 40 and 50 minutes from Ptuj and 65 minutes from Maribor and Murska Sobota. What are we going to do in these cases? We have simply come to the conclusion that the country will turn its back on the inhabitants and inhabitants of these areas. Let us think a little bit about what measures we are taking, because I believe that this regulation or so-called reform of emergency medical care will be to the detriment of the inhabitants and residents of these areas. And once again, I appeal to the Ministry to listen to it and to make it right. At the same time, as Ptujcan, I would like to say that I expect the Government to proceed as soon as possible with the preparation of the 2016 budget rebalancing under which we are also rightly expected, in view of the decisions taken in the National Assembly, that financial resources will be allocated for the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Aleksander Kavčič, get Mrs. Erika Girl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u82	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! By 22 May this year, a date was opened by which public institutions, parties and all those concerned were sent a large number of initiatives to amend this Regulation, which we are considering today. There have been over 300 pages of these comments, initiatives, and I believe that the Ministry of Health will take these comments very seriously and reasonedly and respond to them in a reasoned manner. Some micro-locations, provinces of Slovenia, grey foxes and so on have been highlighted several times today. We need to be clear: the Ministry and the Minister ensure that patients in the field do not get worse. What's more, it'll improve. It will improve further because the new emergency centres, which will be equipped with state-of-the-art equipment, will provide the best service at a time when the patient or the unfortunate needs help. It is true, however, that at the present 62, as has been said today, there are usually 24 hours a day, 7 days a week in the emergency on-call service. This somehow coincides if we can compare it with the establishment of the congregations some time ago. Somehow this is the case: small congregations were established, even though they did not meet all the legal requirements. They've been confirmed and they're working today. They work well and fight and work for the good of their citizens and citizens. So, I believe they're also working current duty stations in 62 areas. We also have one of those jobs in Luttomer that works very well. The Ljutomer emergency medical team is one of the best in the country. There are many competitions in this sense, and they are also perfecting, proving themselves. We also want a SUC or satellite emergency center in Lutomer. They want it in Lendava, they want it in Radgona, they want it in Ormož, we all want it. But the facts are different. Since 1978, we have 24 hours a day in Ljutomer on the day of the on-call doctor. We cannot say that this was a privilege or a superstandard. Let me point out one theoretically possible case. Let there be two traffic accidents away from the SAC or the emergency centre, and one traffic accident with the same incident that is, say, 15 kilometers away from, for the first time, the SAC and the second time from the current duty station. Dispatch gets a call and decides to send a rescue vehicle to these two accidents with a doctor once, and then not again. Of course, he'll weigh during the injury itself, but assuming the injuries are the same, in one case, that means the doctor will be there, but in the other case, not because there won't be enough. In my view, however, it is necessary that only on-calls be properly evaluated, and I therefore believe that a lot will be resolved. In particular, I believe that at all current 62 on-call services, all 62 doctors will be able to attend 24 hours a day when this on-call service is properly evaluated. Once again, I stress: when it comes to proper evaluation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Erika Deklava has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I must say, I'm a little tired of these debates, which are really going on forever. I have to say, I don't understand, because the Ministry has prepared a regulation or draft, just a draft. And then it gave people, professionals and everyone time to make their comments, their suggestions, their criticisms, whatever. And that's what came. Then the proponents do not wait long enough for the ministry to put at least some of these proposals into the regulation, to correct it, to take into account some weighty proposals, but to tire us all out with these meetings and to waste our time when we could do something smarter, and the time of the ministry. New Slovenia says that the Regulation is prepared superficially, non-systemically, non-professionally. Mr. Swirl says they're going to prevent any sort of nonsense from happening and that rule would be adopted. They would like to help, it has been heard today, so, Minister, I suggest that whatever you invite New Slovenia, leave this expertise, because they are qualified enough, have all the necessary knowledge and will probably properly and properly prepare this regulation. And then you won't have as much trouble as you have now. I had already discussed yesterday, and I said that I do not want to be too critical because I do not belong in the profession, and I will not over-praise this rule, but I wanted to focus yesterday on one small and only segment, which I know very well. However, I must say that — this has been heard many times today — we do not hear, but we probably do not want to hear and we do not want to understand because some of you still repeat the same sentences. Comrade Godec, I respect you very much, but it seems very unfair to me that you are saying that the system is based on the first intermediaries to be based on firefighters. That's just not true. And I don't think it's appropriate for you to tell Mr. Zorčič that he should read this draft rule. I suggest you finally read it, too. Although I think you've read it very carefully and accurately, but I can't find any reason why you want to fool people like that. You didn't want to listen to me yesterday, either, when I wanted people in particular, not to be afraid, to explain what the first intermediaries were, when they were flexible and why they were driven, and you read me Article 53 of the Rules, which says that training for the first mediators is being organized in places where they have a voluntary fire company. And then you stopped. Is that right? This article has a continuation. An organised voluntary firefighting society or a different form of civil protection with members involved in a silent activation system may train and integrate other persons, i.e. all, into the system of first intermediaries. We're talking about laymen and volunteers, and those two words are crucial, not firefighters. And let me tell you, unfortunately or, if you like, the firefighters are the ones who want it the most. For example, in Postojna and in Beerka, we took the initiative to ask all those who would like to voluntarily become the first intermediaries. Ninety-five percent of them were firefighters. That's why we might be talking about firefighters. But these may also be people who have nothing to do with firefighting. And waving a bunch of comments and reading them One comment you read was this: before, the first messenger was a doctor, and now he's going to be a technician. [[...]] Yeah, if that's what the profession wrote, then I'm scared. Because the first agent wasn't a doctor before. The time limit for the first intermediary exists only now. The first agent is only now recognized. It's just a layman and it's a volunteer. Such comments are extremely inappropriate. Mr. Wrotec, the nearest ambulance to the Great Mountain will probably arrive, which will be detected by the dispatcher's service, and that poor old woman you were talking about will be provided quickly and appropriately. And all those who say that this rule is not a health reform – of course it is not. But it is such a huge change that it can certainly be part of the reform. And if a client who says there are no new faces thinks that the reform of health care is one marriage that will change all health problems, settle, redraw, then I'm afraid. I hope you do not expect everything in a single law that we will call health reform. And, Mr. Horvath, I don't know if we really have the right people to talk. But I agree that we have interlocutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u86	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The service of a Member of the National Assembly is well described in the Rules of Procedure itself. Nevertheless, Mrs Deklava, I believe – Friday afternoon, 30 degrees – that you would like to sunbathe somewhere or that members of the coalition would rather be on the beach than here in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, you have been elected from the people and you must be present in the National Assembly in accordance with the rules of procedure, as well as the professional services of the Ministry. Give a little understanding of parliamentary democracy and the structure of the National Assembly. We're just in the service of the people, and if there's a meeting going on, we need to discuss it regardless of the weather it is. Time is a fact, but we have to be here. Let us understand that you were chosen to be a member of the National Assembly. But if I take a quick look at what you've just said. You said that Nova Slovenije said that the rulebook was complete and unprofessional. No, no! That's what the profession says. So I quote you. Prim. Mag. Dusan Vlahović, Dr. med., UKC Ljubljana, professional magazine ISIS, June 2015. And it says, "The rulebook is prepared unprofessionally and superficially. Many questions are not clarified by the Regulation. I suggest to the Ministry that the regulation withdraw." And so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u87	Procedural proposal, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u88	That's it. Thank you very much for the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u89	The Replica has Mrs. Girls.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u90	Comrade Swirl, I didn't say anything about the weather. In this beautiful weather, it would be high time for you to start listening to what we are saying. I know what the work of Members is, and I know why I'm sitting here listening to you. At the same time, I am pleased that Members are not paid by efficiency. I hope your voters will understand why we are not doing things that are more important to this country than this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u91	Ms. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u92	Emergency medical care is important for our citizens. You know that, Mrs. Girl. Now you're leaving because I want to tell you that you misquoted me. Regarding the first intermediaries, I have quoted the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia and will read the quote again, although Mrs Girl has gladly left this hall. So I quote and quote again: "After the current system, the first mediator is a doctor, according to the new system will be the first layman without formal medical education (voluntary)." And I wasn't talking about any paramedics. I find it interesting. On 24 April, at the 9th emergency meeting of the Health Committee, Mrs Deklava was very critical of this regulation. She passed on, at least according to her words, comments from the field and said: "I personally do not think that any good project can arise if you do not include key stakeholders. I think that at least the directors of health homes, the staff in the E.R. have something to say, have some good practice. They definitely said they were very disappointed because they were not already involved in the creation of the rules." And today he's talking about us waiting and how rude we are and I don't know everything because we haven't waited for the end of the public debate, and it's probably going to be another six months for this to come together and so on. At the same time, she spoke of the first intermediaries. Here I have to admit that she is obviously an expert and knows this area, because she has told me herself that she is working in this area. But she also said about it: "It seems to me like a school case when big and strong picks up small, say, something." Ms. Deklava changed her mind within a month. All of a sudden, the book's great, it's cool, and everything's fine with it. As for firefighters, once again: none of what I said about firefighters here today has grown on my lawn, but this is in the comments of the Firehouse Association of Slovenia. I believe that firefighters are, once again, those who are always willing to help. I face it every day, and I am grateful for it. However, to include firefighters in the Rules without coordination with the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, without coordination with the Ministry of Defence and all other services working in this area, is incorrect by the Ministry. That's what I'm talking about. And the Gasilian Union is also talking about defining the moral and criminal responsibility of the first intermediaries. Which one of you is willing to act as a mediator, not to bear all the consequences, or how will we bear them if we are the first intermediaries? And don't say words!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that the equipment provided by the applicant in the reference material for the emergency meeting can be referred to 10 emergency centres and 48 million euros, as far as it will be invested in the construction of emergency centres. With some additional resources to regulate individual dispatch units, this amount should also be close to EUR 50 million. If we only imagine this amount, I think it's a very realistic expectation that there should be no longer any response time from the call to the moment the ambulance or assistance comes to the place where this assistance is needed. I think that this should be a very simple starting point for the preparation of a regulation or even for the operation of these emergency centres. Any deviation from an extension of time is, in my opinion, unjustifiable because of this huge amount that we are investing in this system. I also believe that it would not be good to try to save on staff and on existing forms of organisation with all of these funds invested, thereby reducing the possibility of access to emergency medical care in remote areas or places that are more remote than central centres where appropriate assistance can be provided. However, I would like to point out, in all this, that it is very important that these funds, which are also a large part of European funds, are exhausted in time and that this deadline to be caught is extremely important. It is also very important not only to build these centres as buildings, but also to update the equipment, which is also crucial for us to be able to carry out emergency medical care successfully. Last but not least, it was interesting compared to Role 2 and the equipment that this military hospital has and the equipment that they have, say, existing centres, and it is found that even Role 2 is more modern than these centres. So investing in this equipment is also essential and also reasonable in order to make this aid as effective as possible. I'll make a critical assessment. With all this planning of these emergency centres, I think little attention has been paid to the fact that the eastern part of the country is not covered by helicopter emergency medical assistance. We only do this in the western part of the country, while in the eastern part of the country we have this completely unresolved. It is true that a network of highways has also been built, if I may say so, and many have been cut short, but nevertheless, the fact is that the eastern part of the country is not covered with helicopter emergency medical assistance. It would be very reasonable to adjust and harmonise the purchase of additional helicopters in a very short time, as this is also a key problem in the establishment of emergency medical assistance in the form of helicopter transport. For the needs of the police or for the needs of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it is necessary to purchase additional helicopters, allowing these crews to operate in the most cheap way possible, as they are already doing, in the eastern part of the country. Just as a suggestion, because I don't have enough accurate data. If it could be stuck somewhere that it would not be possible for all 12 centres to be implemented in due course, and if it were only time, it would probably make sense then to redirect these funds or to change all the documentation to draw European funds in a way that can also be obtained by helicopters with these funds that would remain because the centres might not be realized in time, as envisaged. However, the situation on the ground, particularly in these remote areas, should be analysed. I also looked at the situation in Bovec, where they built a modern centre dedicated to both the needs of civil protection and rapid emergency medical care and firefighting. In short, it is an area that is also strongly involved in the situation in our mountains, and the help from this center is closest. The facility is actually built, and it is also largely equipped, but of course it is not included in the appropriate system of a network of emergency medical care. Therefore, firefighters in that area have already organised themselves yesterday in a way that even one of the vehicles is designed to shorten the route to the nearest emergency centre by means of appropriate transport. This indicates that there is a great deal of willingness in these areas for people to be involved in this process. In my opinion, the regulation should also include this part concerning the activity of firefighters, civil protection. Because in one part of Slovenia, as I said, this is already happening in Bovec, but we do not yet have the appropriate regulations for everything precisely regulated, which may cause certain problems in the event of problems in solving. This is the right direction. I would appeal, however, that such an area as Bovec be included in this system and that this will also allow this area to shorten their response time to get help. Something similar is happening in Radlja in Koroška. Koroška has also been very well organised and has already organised a good dispatch centre that directs all roads for firefighters, rescuers and civil protection as necessary. There is also an investment that I think will end somewhere in the middle of this year. It is also a modern firehouse, a home capable of also taking responsibility in the field of potential emergency centres and civil protection. So all these things that are already coming into existence in Slovenia are probably in other places that I have not listed at this time – unfortunately in Kočevsko this matter did not take place or somehow fell asleep, but I do know these two cases – in the final phase and it would make sense to study them very carefully and integrate them into this system in a way that they also function fully. In all this debate, which we have today on the organisation of emergency medical care, I would also like to remind you of the debate when we talk about the need to maintain the accessibility of the telecommunications network in the future by the most remote places, especially where this is not economically justified for any new owner of Telekom, and I would like to remind you that all those who talk about Telekom are forgetting this. This is one of the things that is definitely very important. The 112 is the key so that people can call for help from even the remotest places where there can only be analog links that Telekom has right now. For some future commercial use, however, this is a cost for a new owner who could also give up. I appeal only to all those who forget when we talk about selling Telekom, not to forget in these discussions that the process is going on in such a way that these non-financial commitments are not taken into account in this process and that a large part of the population in Slovenia can be cut off from the appropriate aid because it will not be connected to the telecommunications network in a way that they can communicate the problem they face in a timely manner. Thank you for your attention. I hope that these centres will be truly built in such a time that European money will be primarily drawn on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think that, at all times today's debate, at some point, at least congratulations to the Minister for Courage and Perseverance on such a difficult subject as any intervention in the organisation, structure of the healthcare system, health care, particularly important and sensitive work such as emergency medical care. At the same time, it is also important to understand the proposaler, who, like all of us, faces a number of issues of everyday concern to citizens and citizens, with a number of criticisms and many dilemmas related to the issue of the most urgent, vital system that people are accustomed to today and in which we have some confidence. So this is also a good sign, because it means that this moment in Slovenian health, which is often marked by many things, something works and that it has some degree of trust between citizens and citizens. The key point now seems to be that the thing that is well thought out, which follows the right objective, is to ensure effective, fast and quality care for the critically ill and injured, to prepare itself in such a way that it will not be again asked questions, or that this may not worsen the current standard, but that it will be clear that the current standard is the starting point and that such reorganisation and change will provide faster, more efficient and better services for citizens and citizens. Here we will all have to take this part of the responsibility together in order to act responsibly until such discussions. This does not mean that we will accept the offer offered by the Ministry in any way. That's not even our job. But our task is to help constructively and not to try to spread the fear that with the changes that are necessary – this must be stressed – we do not create any danger to the lives and health of citizens and citizens. What is most important is that people in particular will need to know what these changes mean. They're afraid because they don't know them because they don't imagine this moment as plastic, what green, red, orange means, because they don't imagine what dispatch centers mean, because they don't imagine how the centers and satellite centers are going to work now and everything that's a little bit different from what they used to be. And at the end of the day, it seems important to me that the transitional period will not be too long, that it will not be extended and that at the end of a transitional period we will not have a new one. As the famous Slovenian film My Dad, the socialist ball, teaches, has transitional periods of their traps. The key is what Mr Gantar has already said before me: a better step back at some point and fully prepared for change. When we're ready, we can't delay the changes. Thank you very much and I apologize for the overstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u98	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. A respected minister with her co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about emergency medical care. We've heard a lot through the debate. I think that this is one segment in the Republic of Slovenia, which is why people today have one security. With this new rule, one part of Slovenia no longer has this safety. That's my opinion. But let me also say that I don't remember any session of the National Assembly being so impaled by the profession. For many years, I do not think there has been a meeting in the National Assembly where the profession would be so concerned and encourage us to correct this regulation accordingly. I don't want him to back off on his own. Today, we heard from the coalition that it doesn't make sense for us to sit here and swear on someone. I must say that if someone is tired after 10 months, it will be difficult to complete the mandate, given that we have not yet reformed. Then we have also heard today that this regulation is a reform. As a non-expert, I must say that there is no way he can hold that this draft regulation would be reform. Let me touch the emergency centres in Slovenia. I must say that I myself have gladly responded to the invitation of Celje Hospital and I looked at this emergency centre with a group of members of this National Assembly last year. With great joy and enthusiasm, I learned that this was a great achievement. Surely all the emergency centres in Slovenia, which we have also built with the help of European funds, are a major acquisition. But I cannot agree with these new emergency centers that we've been building for years. I come from an environment where there is a rescue vehicle between the Trojans and Roglo — we all know both places — in the afternoon or at night, where there is a doctor. This is unacceptable and, if applicable, we divide people into two categories, the first category and the second category. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and also personally, I cannot agree with this. They also said that in the past experts from Sweden came to see and study our system. They were delighted to learn that we have an emergency medical care very well arranged. In neighbouring Austria, they had a similar proposal, put it into life and soon found that it was not working and that it was hurting citizens and citizens. Certainly, a new change in Austria next door cost a lot. I hope that we will not allow this in the Republic of Slovenia. With this proposal, this draft brings us back a few decades ago. This is my personal conviction, and I have arguments for this belief. This is pointed out by many experts, especially those who work in health every day and who work for the health of our citizens and citizens. I remember one session; I think the first meeting of the committee was convened by us. There were many mayors of Slovenian municipalities and directors of institutions at this meeting. When they told each of their visions when they told each of their problems in their congregations or in their health homes, I was very surprised because many times by the group preparing this new proposal, it was accompanied by laughter or some opinion, if they did not know what they were saying. I think we need to respect people working across Slovenia, mayors, directors of health homes. If anyone knows the problems in these parts of the municipality, they are known by these Slovene mayors, directors of health care institutions, and especially doctors who work in these health homes. Today, we have also heard the combination of a doctor and a fireman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, surely in the past, firefighters and our respected doctors performed their task with excellence in Slovenia. It's very hard to imagine tomorrow, one combination between firefighters and doctors. I have to say that I have almost thought that it is best to adopt a rule that all Slovenian doctors must join voluntary firefighting companies. Then it'll probably be easier for us. In short, I wish to be honest, I repeat, because I am coming from an environment where we will lose very, very well-organised emergency medical care. I've seen this team myself many times in person, and I've been at some sort of unpleasant event. All of this work, which has been upgraded for many years, has been done with excellence, and this draft of the Rules of Procedure is losing this urgent medical assistance. Certainly citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are not yet aware of this. I'm sure the profession is aware of that. That's why she's so restless, so she's calling on the phone, so she's writing e-mails, letters, and I think it's one signal that we stop at this point, and we also admit that a respected minister with your team, that there's been a mistake here, and that it's going in the other direction, that Slovenians and Slovenians will have this emergency medical assistance provided. In those parts of Slovenia where this has not been settled so far, I sincerely want this to be settled. But where we have this arranged, don't tear apart this network that's been tangled up for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! My fellow Members and colleagues, who cover the health sector of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group and are also members of the Health Committee, have already very well explained their views on the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Health or the Minister. But I'd like to say the following myself. In view of the fact that the debates were also taking place at the local level, because this concerns many local communities and each individual of us, I must say that when it began to talk about the reorganisation of emergency medical care, I was approached by representatives of the Ajdovščina Regional Community – I come from the Vipavska Valley myself – and that I immediately addressed the question to the Minister of Health as to whether it was not planned to maintain an emergency health service with ambulances in Ajdovščina. At that time, a discussion was also opened to consider that Ajdovšina would also receive a helidrome at the airport. I understand the financial situation, but given the conditions it has, perhaps the ministry could consider it. At that time, the debate went on to support the construction of the North Sea Emergency Regional Centre in Šempetr, in terms of the integration of the region, and not in any way as a compensation for the emergency in Ajdovščina. This happened already in January. In February it then began to follow these events more seriously in connection with the reorganisation of emergency medical care. By then, it had been known that there was supposed to be an emergency medical service with ambulances in Tolmin, and Ajdovščina was not yet clear. At that time, we all stood in the position that in such a form the emergency service in Ajdovščina should remain, because it is a demographicly highly dispersed area, a transitional transit on a fast road, an airport with all its activities – we know what this can bring – a warehouse of dangerous substances, a nearby gas compressor station, which is of national importance, various adrenaline sports, especially in the summer months, meaning that when it comes, God forbid, to some accident, then help is needed immediately and immediately. Speaking of Ajdovščina, we need to know that this emergency service also covers the area of the Vipava Congregation. And if the profession advocates the thesis that minutes save lives, everything must be done to ensure that better standards and health care for the people of the country remain this urgent health care service as support for the main regional emergency in Šempeter. Here, however, I must say that, given that earlier said, in particular, by fellow Members from the Modern Centre Party, that these are meaningless debates that we have on this subject, that we are already repeating ourselves too much and so on, they are obviously producing their fruits somewhere. As soon as I put the question to the Minister and after we opened several debates on this subject, both the Slovenian Democratic Party and today the New Slovenia, things began to unfold in some segments. And I can tell you that, thank God, we did it and that there will be a satellite emergency center in Ajdovščina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u102	Now that I've been listening to the debaters on the side of the coalition, I find that you probably know a little more than we do, at least as far as helicopter service is concerned. I would ask the Government or the Minister again how the organisation of the helicopter service in the Republic of Slovenia is under the new rules. How many helicopters will be designed for rescue or emergency medical care? Where will they be located? And also as regards the European directive imposing all the countries of the European Union, as far as I am aware that these helicopters must not be in the service of the police and the military due to the crossings of state borders, there are other restrictions. I'm also asking for an answer to what it's like with the first intermediaries, firefighters. In fact, they constantly challenge us to speak wrong, to say that firefighters are not the first ones to act as intermediaries, and not just talk about them. However, Article 53 states that the first intermediaries, namely firefighters, will be educated. Finally, at an extraordinary meeting in April, the Minister said that they would use our voluntary fire companies for that first approach. If I summarize everything that they will not say that I am taking from the context: "The Regulation further introduces the so-called first intermediaries, who will be specifically educated, because we know that the first minutes of the correct approach to the unfortunate are important at that time. We will use our voluntary fire-fighting companies and others to be able to intervene locally in these first minutes in the field and to help either the unfortunate or in the case of cardiac arrests and other matters." I'm asking you nicely if you've declared this or if you're saying you're leaning on firefighters, why would you deny that we're using firefighters if they're gonna be the first intermediaries? I'm really asking for an answer for the helicopter service, how's the helicopter service policy? At the same time, we all find that this is an important factor in emergency medical care, that it is necessary and that it is necessary to re-establish it. Therefore, it would be wise for you to get to know us in this area as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Prelog has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u104	All in attendance, all in attendance! The concept of the proposal for recommendations concerning the NMP seems to me to be extremely important, including perhaps particularly in that it is a living thing, as the Minister has expressed herself, and it is, or it will be, possible to adapt or modify it in the light of the need to make the best possible solutions wherever necessary. In this regard, as an example, I should specifically point out the need for a solution to the NMP in Krk, as my colleague Mr Chuš has already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Although this is not my theme, the following must be said in this regard. I think I need to say this. Earlier, the question arose as to whether it was a draft regulation, and the coalition MPs, of course, flea, fog – as usual, that this is not something to be discussed because it is a draft. Such a draft is probably too important, too important. I agree that it is legal, legal and everything else so that it is under the responsibility of the Ministry, you sign and it will apply. But if that's what we're really after, I don't know, I don't have the right expression. [[...]] If only this could have been done without a public debate. I don't think this can go without the broader public debate that you've set in motion, and that's true. At the same time, it seems to me that I am denying Parliament the right to discuss this inadvertently, and that is very rude. For a fundamental reason, however, health is one of the highest things we have in our lives. And if we are discussing this, then there should be no one in this national assembly who would say that this is a waste of time or something like that. I believe that something will also happen to the Minister, in the sense that some comments will be taken into account, although my experience is unfortunately – the Minister – you know what we were talking about – bad. What a man says to you is nothing. Or with you and your subordinates. But let's leave these other things alone. Let's go to the theme we have. So we have this rule, and if in all that piece of paper that was shown earlier by Godec's colleague, there really was nothing taken into account, then I'm a little concerned. Then I'm a little worried. And no, it is not bad if you hear any more comments from Members in this National Assembly, because we represent Members, and I will continue to present the views of my local environment in this area. I'm aware that you won't be able to, and that it's not possible, I'm fully aware, that it meets everyone. I myself led such an All-Slovenian project in 1995, although in the police, and unfortunately, it is quite clear to me that with the same or smaller resources you will not be able to perform miracles. This is understandable to me, unless you get it on some Eurojackpot, and then you put it in this Regulation. Then it would've worked. But at the same time, it seems to me that there is a great, great sensitivity to this whole thing. And listening to Members here is at least what we expect of you. I see you're doing this, but I find it foolish of fellow Members who say it's a waste of time. If they are still selling the fog, please ask SMC experts to tell Mr Zorčič how he sold the fog because it is not here today; that is, it is 25 minutes from Krskov to Kozjeg. [[...]] I invite him to invite me, and I'll come down there and we'll drive from Brežice in 25 minutes to Kozjeg. He'll drive. And then we'll see how much he lied for. By the way, you have one fat hour from Celje to Kozjeg. It's a big hour. If you take Shmarje near Jelša to Kozjeg, you have 45 minutes. But if the ambulance goes at that full speed and there are no obstacles, it comes in 32 minutes. These are real numbers. And I understand how nice it is or sometimes not, if you're in a coalition, then you have to defend some stupid proposal from ministers. But if it comes out of this for 25 minutes instead of one fat hour, then that's not it, it's a fog. That this is a waste of time and a beating of empty straw, and all because Mrs Girl spoke and also Mr Zorčič, I have already responded. Health is probably one of the greatest good things to talk about with the minister responsible for this area and who is preparing some solutions in this area, I think it is important. That's why I'm here, and that's why I stopped by. Otherwise, I'll say it like this. Once again, I understand – in this local environment from which I come, Šmarje pri Jelšah, I will not say that there is any terrible dissatisfaction in this area regarding this rule. However, I was reminded of some things that are also important for this environment. In fact, this environment, however, extends on one side from Boč and on the other side across the entire Croatian border to Kozjego, which is actually closer to Krka than to Šmarje near Jelšah. This is an extremely large environment. I've had one experience this year with some serious illness, not in person, but in the family circle, and it's perfectly clear to me how bad it is when you have a dying person, and no one answers. That's extremely bad. Believe me, this is bad. So I repeat what the size of this terrain requires. But the size of this terrain is as great as we said. Therefore, I will try to make some remarks in the following. The unequal treatment of the population in terms of the yet acceptable time available from the reception of a call indicating a life-threatening situation is not appropriate and justifiable for the new system we have. All those born in the countryside are already deprived at the start, in the start, from health to school. In fact, the person born in Ljubljana has a very close education, they pay him a local, and it's over. But he who is born in Gossip needs to pay — what? Apartment in Ljubljana. If there's still a threat, if there's still deprivability, then it's bad. Not to talk about any Internet or anything like that. The number of mobile units and doctors in the field of operation of Celje is too low and too low due to geographically dispersed settlements, hilly terrain and longer borders with the Republic of Croatia. In part, the number of mobile emergency ambulance units is also too low. The new system for the implementation of continuous healthcare, under which 97% of all existing cases are processed on average today according to statistics in Slovenia, is not well designed and well thought out. The new emergency medical assistance network does not provide for the separation of the same family and emergency medical work, which is said to have been one of the objectives of the system. This objective has not been achieved in our area. The new emergency medical assistance network, as one of the system's articles, also includes the first non-health workers. And what also seems important to me: the new emergency medical care system, the continued health care system for the expected equivalent, but perhaps even higher financial resources provide added value to the quality and safety of emergency medical care. However, this represents 3%. This represents 3%. While we are talking 97% in the implementation of uninterrupted healthcare, this is according to your data, where quality, at least in the opinion of those responsible in our environment, is lower for our environment. That's saying, at 3% you get some plus, at 97% you get some minus. So it's for thought. I am aware that you will not be able to take account of everything, but I think it is appropriate that such a folder, which Mrs Godec here shows, would not remain unanswered. I have bad experiences myself. You can't get an answer from your people for nothing in the world, for nothing in the world, but you can be a messenger — let alone a French woman from Cossack. And you won't even answer her phone. That's bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mrs. Jelka Godec on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I would once again call on the Minister if she could answer my question about the 24-hour opening of duty. I still haven't gotten that answer. Actually, I've been looking for a magnetogram of things, and now I'm even more distracted by what you said on the board yesterday and today that nothing is taken and nothing is taken away. And you add to it that 24 hours of doors will be open everywhere. Dr. Prosen says otherwise. Otherwise, paragraph 47 of the draft Regulation and paragraph 50 of the draft Regulation speak otherwise. "In two months from the date of entry into operation of the UC, the activity of the on-call service of the nearest NMP unit shall be relocated to the nearest UC." That's almost understandable, because if you have an emergency center and a health center in Celje, it makes no sense that you have two locations. But what are the closest units? What kind of radio are you gonna take here? And in article 50, which says, "The process of transforming duty duty. No later than one year after the establishment of the health service, the on-call service shall cease to operate after 24 hours. Well, something just stops working. Now tell me again, kindly please, let us explain your claim yesterday and today that you are not shutting anything down. As for the first mediators and this equality, why are we concerned? [[...]] I agree with the first intermediaries that this is a good thing, that we have people like that. But what are we worried about? This statement, look: "We need a strong primary level..." – we all agree – "... And from this point of view, as you said, in such places, let's say specifically in Kozy, if we speak, and even in smaller places, we have also recognized a need for the presence of a doctor out of readiness, but we need to know that we simply cannot guarantee the overall supply of the critically ill, because it is simply not possible, because of the resources no, both human and others. And I'd like to point it out again. It is a fact, and we will have to accept it as a profession that has already accepted it, as well as the general public. In the farthest villages, we will solve the complications of mortality and other complications of disability through the system of the first intermediaries. It is simply not possible to put rescue vehicles fleets on the periphery," – Dr. Prosen. That's what's bugging us. That's not true! Magnetogram of the meeting, 24 April 2015. I can deliver it to you. We're concerned that you've made a clear and loud statement when you're on the periphery as the first intermediaries. Now he's not the first volunteer broker in Cosy. So I'm wondering if it's true that nothing is taken. It escapes people and such statements run away from people. And certainly, what the colleagues have already said is ignorance. These statements speak of the fact that you said that there should be the first intermediaries on the periphery. That's a quote. Ma'am, don't give me a nod! That's a quote. I can deliver it to your desk and read it. You can go to UDIS or all Members can look at the record of this meeting, those who have not been on this committee. And this statement also began to worry us, and this was said irresponsibly by Dr. Prosen, who designed and continued later: "We claim that accessibility for the most critically ill will not get worse, much better because this system will only care for the critically ill." Hello?Oh, my God! Only for the critically ill! By 3%! Of course, it is commendable that the NMP network is improving for those who are critically ill, but at the expense of those who are not critically ill, they can become critically ill at this moment. But as you pointed out at the February and March sessions, you looked at where they were critically ill to provide a better network. Therefore, I ask you once again for an answer as to how you explain paragraph 50 of the draft regulation and what happens to helicopter service, what happens to dispatch rules, what happens to pediatrics or emergency care for children. At least the comments on these quotes can be given.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u110	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall again! I must say that today, following the presentation of these positions and the debate we have in this national assembly, I strongly wonder if we all have the same material. I find this mainly from the debate of my colleagues in the SMC and from the answers given to us by the distinguished Minister. Here I will comment on her reply regarding the material provided by the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, which you have and which we have here before us. That's how it was, on the 22nd. 5. Subject: Public debate — Emergency Medical Services Regulation, Annex 1. In Annex 1, the association lists the nine comments which I have already presented in my position as the conclusion: "This is to introduce changes without pre-defined objectives, adequate human resources, without financial resources and with poor access to continuous healthcare for 97% of the patients under consideration. We note that the rules are incomplete and are not harmonised by the professional public. Since the rule of law interferes with the fundamental rights of citizens, we also feel obliged to point out that the rule of law is not in accordance with the law." They continue to point out that this Regulation is intended to introduce changes without pre-defined objectives, adequate staff, once again, financial resources, longer time availability, less accessibility to continuous healthcare for 97% of patients under consideration. Now that we've been talking all day about the profession, who's professional and so on, and we've been getting the readings from the other side. We as a professional use today when we talk about this Regulation, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Association of Health Institutions and also doctors from the field. I think that, in addition to these comments, the profession should by no means ignore the comments of the local communities, according to the mayors, and their civil initiatives. I'm going to say a few, and since I'm coming from the Upper Savinja Valley, I'm going to start with the Upper Savinja Valley, where the mayors of the seven municipalities are bitter. We no longer have tax administration, geodetic administration and so on in the valley. 40 monthly interventions; 4 thousand 566 patients were examined in the on-call service in 2014; more than 50 accidents occurred where they had to be mediated. All of this is now being directed to the nearest satellite emergency centre in Velenje, which is on the map, I stress, according to the map, the nearest. For mayors, it is unacceptable to explain to the representatives of the Ministry that because of a small number of emergencies in certain areas, the service simply does not come out. So our health and life are not equivalent. We're going back 30 years ago. In their request to maintain the status quo or to obtain satellite emergency status, the mayors sent a protest letter or request to the Ministry. Patients in the Upper Savina Valley in 80% would not receive emergency medical care in 20 minutes. And if I go to the Lower Savina Valley. Here too the mayors of the six municipalities of Lower Savinja Valley are concerned. They wrote: "On the one hand, rationalisation, which can make it possible for people to die needlessly, and on the other hand, the endless supply of tax money to help dead banks and businesses." I think they're right here, too. Even in the Sava region and in Lithuania – because, Mr Dolinšek, you will now agree with me – the participants in the profession and local communities agree that the abolition of the current organisation of emergency medical care in the three Sava municipalities would constitute a serious deterioration. In Zagorje, the mayor predicts even a constitutional assessment if the rulebook remains the same as the draft. Kamnik – about 15,000 signatures against the abolition of emergency medical care. They're bitter in Kamnik. They were abolished by the tax office, the geodetics office, and the police are only on duty this afternoon. They also point out that if you want to spread it, you have to spread it out, not on the inside. "Such matters prove that these countries are not run by the government, but by third-class officials," said the mayor of the municipality of Kamnik. And if I go any further. The narrow valley – Mr. Škodnik, isn't it? Both the population and the profession and the mayors of these municipalities require that at least the existing situation be maintained. Thus, the mayors have announced that all democratic measures will prevent this proposal. They have a difficult industry in the valley where accidents occur and a much older population. The parishioners believe that medical care in the valley needs to be strengthened, not aggravated. The coastal-inland region – the directors of health institutions are bitter because the Ministry did not invite them to participate in the preparation of the changes to the network. In Tolminska, Bovska and Kobariška, the locals stressed that the Ministry's representative could not tell what was waiting for them tomorrow. And if I stop by Ormož, the Centre by Drava and St. Thomas. In Ormož, too, it was rejected because the duty of duty was about to be abolished. In the end, I would like to say that you, my respectable colleagues in the coalition, somehow I understand. I know that you have a great problem in voting, in supporting the work of your minister or in supporting or defending the interests of your citizens where you have been elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I cannot help but reminding you that the smuggling on the government's side is also painful to discuss at this point in the agenda of the National Assembly. If such a mass team — six hours and more, five representatives of the government — is unable to answer at the head of the minister’s office, none of this team directly raises questions that concern even the solutions found in the specific articles, then we can be concerned. Do they not know what they have accepted and what they have prepared as a draft, and this is the topic of today’s conversation, whether they do not know how they will proceed or whether they will somehow come into force and introduce an emergency medical regulation. Not a single concrete answer to the specifically asked question in six hours! If you have selected experts in the coalition to perform the most responsible functions in the executive branch, then you would expect really good answers. I'm afraid they're gone. You say that more than 300 comments have been submitted on individual solutions to the Regulation. In what way will this be handled and accepted? Just like that, with some autocratic decision of someone who has the right to accept the rule itself. No matter what the rest of Slovenia says, let it be the people in the countryside, let it be the professional public, let it be the Medical Chamber, let it be those who perform managerial functions in health homes in this country. It appears that this will be taken exactly this way, it is said autocraticly, with an opinion and no arguments. I also ask the Minister whether this approach is systematic. This is also what I ask you coalition Members, who you know when we introduce a law, very often say that our law is not systemic, it is not comprehensive, it is not systematic. Now I ask you, Minister and you, whether the approach to the preparation of this Regulation and also the solutions to this Regulation is systematic, comprehensive. Is it by solving problems, or is it by increasing problems? Simple answer, yes or no. It is such that it solves problems or does not solve problems, but it creates problems. In view of what we have heard in this last period in the Committee's consideration, in the questions sent, and even now, I think the answer is particularly clear. This solution, which is prepared, is not such as to solve problems, but it increases many problems. I'm not saying that in all parts, but the part about emergency medical care is certainly making things worse. In some areas, at least as far as this regulation is concerned in Ljubljana, nothing will get worse, and perhaps a little improvement will take place. The same applies to Maribor and some other cities that will have satellite or emergency centres. But I'm asking you what's going to happen on all the rest of the work, everywhere where emergency medical care and 24-hour shifts are canceled. I think that this approach, that for the preparation of this regulation on the working body or elsewhere there are no professional bases, no maps, no gravitational areas for a solution, is random, but this is deliberately done. Purposefully, many who will be cut off will be driven by thirst over water. I live in the pond. We have a health home that covers three municipalities, about 400 square kilometers [400 sq km] is a large territory, and only 13,000 people live on it. It also covers Lašče, but it's another time. Only 13,000 inhabitants. There is no population, far below the average of Slovenia. Migration flows or ageing processes are pronounced because this is a demographicly endangered area. Colleague Weber, who was also mayor of one part of the Municipality of Loški gotok, can tell you this very clearly. From the part of the Dragar Valley to the Ribnica is 40 or 50 minutes. It's the nearest health station. Now this emergency medical care will be lifted in the Ribnica. Which one's next? A hut that's 15 kilometers away?Oh, my God! I think there is a very serious debate to be held in these matters. And given that rural trends are moving towards population ageing, that there are more and more older people, they are not in their homes, that they cannot drive, that they do not have telephone access and so on, you have decided to sacrifice certain parts of Slovenia, which are slightly more distant, simply for a goal that is not defined anywhere in this material. The secretary says the service will be better. Perhaps in the part of Slovenia the service will be better, this is true. But the moment you write down in the rulebook that the educational level is getting worse and that time accessibility is getting longer, it is no longer a question of whether this service will be better, but it will certainly make this service worse for the part where it happens to them. Definitely. If you are satisfied at your ministry that the cleaning lady is the chef, then this is your decision, but certainly for those who pay the same contribution rate as the citizens in this country, such a solution cannot mean any better service, but worse. Worse. And that's definitely something to think about. I would also like to touch on the discussions of some of the debaters who were also on the committee yesterday. I must say that I very much respect Mr Bručan's debate, which was one of the pioneers in the introduction of emergency medical care. In fact, the age of this is, and I think it has to respect the opinion of someone who has been professionally involved in this, after all, also served as minister, a significant weight greater than to respect someone who was his doctor or the contractor of this service. I have before me a document that was published in ISIS and written by the successor of Dr. Bručan at the head of the clinical emergency at the Ljubljana Clinical Centre Dr. Vlahović. And you know, if such people, who are experts in this field, make such reasoned comments as they are written in this material, or say them orally, then they have some weight because they are related to experiences, and they also know this part, and so on. I don't think there can be any criteria for deciding some bureaucratic decision to do anything. In this material, which was published in ISIS and written by Dr Dusan Vlahović, there is also a diagram that shows very precisely what survival is like in the event of intervention in 3 minutes, in 5 minutes, in 10 minutes or in 20 minutes. Look at this diagram. For those for whom you will extend service accessibility from 12 to 20 minutes, survival options are significantly lower than if you maintained existing accessibility for 12 minutes or 11 minutes. So, this means that those of you who have written down in the Regulation that you will extend the intervention at the part of the Slovenian space for 8 minutes will also take over the proportional part of the victims or serious injuries due to the late intervention. I do not think there is any need for us to allow ourselves to improve the quality of these services in the existing network. I would expect from the Minister, as my colleagues have already said, a map with gravity areas, with past and future intervention times, with existing and future teams that will be equipped with quality and so on. This is one primary basis for discussion. The following should also be known. In this case, when we are dealing with the extension of the time involved in the implementation of emergency medical care, our conduct will be extremely hard. We will not land – as long as we can and will also defend and defend this – to any deterioration of emergency medical care and duty in local environments. No aggravation! And in order to preserve, at least preserve, such a state in this work, we will use all possible means. All possible assets. No one in this country has the right to make one part of the population worse than health care by paying all the contributions in full the same way as those who receive all these benefits and the additional benefits that this Regulation will bring. What right does he intervene in this way? If you think that by adopting this Regulation you will somehow cover some of the larger centres and capture these funds, which have now been designed to carry out this activity in local environments, then this is a serious problem. For example, for our health care home, this part of emergency medical care and on-call care represents about 22 to 25% of all the income of the institution, all the income of the institution. Now with this rule, for the first time, you will make it worse, stop the service – this is what these quoted articles have already said, and if necessary, I will also read them – you will extend the time, take the money and leave the rest at the expense of the local community. You are now saving only the part of the financing of the health system that concerns the state level. By withdrawing 25% of the funds from these local health care facilities and making them available for hospitals and clinics, you will also initiate the process of abolishing rural health homes. This is probably a secondary consequence of a reform that is not being talked about at this moment. I believe that some members of the coalition would deal with other matters. You've said this a number of times, even today. But what are those other things? In this case, after all, it is about life, about the lives of people living in the countryside. Your activities, honourable Members of the Blue Coalition or sometimes a little less, are merely changes in electoral legislation. Six laws were filed and rejected, and you re tabled six electoral laws. So your priorities are not people, but the impulse to maintain and survive, in a political sense. On the proposal of the adopted position, we have also proposed an amendment to correct this second point of the proposal by getting to the table before anything physical is carried out, with a comprehensive picture of how the Government will approach it. I think that in local environments where we have health homes, emergency medical care and 24-hour day-care, this matter needs to be maintained. And we'll do everything we can to keep it that way. That is why, after all, we pay in a health treasury. If you are unable to organise an emergency medical system or an E.R. by reducing existing times, at least keep them. This is the minimum standard of reform. This may be funny for someone in the office or at the ministry, but for those who have problems, for example, work in the forest or anywhere, they experience a certain matter and this intervention does not allow them under the conditions they have so far, and this can mean serious consequences. Many activities are carried out by this country in order to reduce the number of traffic accidents, suicides in order to improve the traffic situation, in order to reduce the number of dead and directly introduce them – measures that will lead to exactly the opposite trend in a certain part of the country. We also propose the adoption of a regulation on dispatching health services, in order to adopt a regulation on the implementation of helicopter emergency assistance, in order to identify the first carriers of emergency medical care, child emergency medical care and also to define a transitional period. I think that such a complex matter as a change in this area is possible only by starting to be piloted in a circular area. This is said to be done first — those who, I don’t know, work in industry — some prototype, it is tested, shortcomings and advantages are identified, and the necessary improvements are accepted. Any other approach is an accident for this country. And if you are not able to listen to the comments addressed to you by virtually all those involved in emergency medical care on the ground, then medical personnel, health care homes, professions, combined in the Chamber – there is probably no doctor who was not a member of the Medical Chamber, even though he does not obtain a license. It is said that you have against yourself all those who suggest certain steps and certain solutions. The minimum standard of political culture is to sit down to take a look at how to prepare a model, so that even us to whom the local environment is addressing a number of comments, concerns and reservations will first learn how these matters will take place. Apologize to it if I have any authority to do something, which, I think, will be a bad, bad approach. After all, the Minister is part of a political group that talks about bringing another political culture into this area. Political culture also means communication and cooperation, while refusing to discuss, as we have seen it today in such an important matter, is probably not an approach. And the only thing that can be understood by the Slovenian public, who listens to us, is that we have those who have requested to convene this meeting perfectly. If we had not made all these efforts with regard to the meetings of the committees as regards the meetings of the National Assembly, this regulation would have already been introduced. This rule would have already been introduced because the minister said we'd introduce it, test it, and then maybe we'll fix something. Now you're in a situation where you're gonna have to fix a lot of things first. I hope that you will have so many political cultures and also attitudes towards citizens that you will do so first. I suggest that you also come to the National Assembly, at least introduce yourself to the committee on this matter, and try to find some agreement on the solutions you are considering. I think it's hard for some people here to refer to some health reform as part of a health reform. I brought with me a normative program in the field of health. It covers ten points, of which there are two resolutions, ten acts to be dealt with by the National Assembly, and tell me what is the reform of the same package. The regulation is the first step towards reform, it has been said several times. What kind of reform? Reforms are not accepted under the table. Reform is made into an elaborate project, a set of goals. On the basis of the objectives to be harmonised, it shall then approach the implementation of individual measures. There's no other way to do this. Such ad hoc measures when someone falls in a certain direction and insists on unconsciousness in some way, which everyone opposes, point only to arrogance and not to any desire, willingness to communicate, cooperation, integration and after seeking better solutions. However, I must say, and I repeat this again that I am appalled that any government representative who comes to represent any law in the National Assembly is so obsessed; something is written, something is translated, something is reported to them, and no one is commenting at all. Nobody's commenting on anything. Dear fellow Members of the coalition parties, if you have competent persons, there must be an argument, a debate, a communication, an explanation, not an absolute silence on the government's side. It will be difficult for the Minister to convince me that nothing will change in the Ribnica if it is written down, I think, in Article 47 of this Regulation, that within two months of the start of the operation of the emergency centres, the activities of the nearest emergency medical unit will be moved to the nearest emergency centre. These interpretations, that this is not the case and that this will not happen, are essentially a lie expressed by the highest official in this area. Of course, this will change, for we will make a cross over emergency medical care at Dr. John Orazma’s Health Center in Ribnica and thus affect all the gravitational area covered by the health care home. You even wrote about the period in which this will happen at the latest. And if my eight colleagues asked you whether that's true or not, and after six hours there's no answer, then it's more than obvious that that's true. You won't answer anyone in silence. That's what it says here. In short, with this amendment, we propose a more rational procedure to examine matters, prepare to prepare all other things related to the amendment of this Regulation, to make gravitational areas, to see from your analysis what will improve and what may worsen somewhere. And then decide whether or not to introduce this rule. I believe that these are the minimum standards of political communication and the minimum standard for implementing the health measures covered by this Regulation. I do not understand why the health care industry should lose EUR 400,000 as a result of this article of yours, at all the other fixed costs that will remain in the local community. What's the point of that? You have not made any financial assessments in this Regulation as to what this means for the functioning of the current health network in local environments and who will cover this, since the remaining costs will remain the same. You didn't do anything. I suggest that you listen slowly to older colleagues, those who have carried out this activity at the largest clinics, this is said at the clinical centre in Ljubljana. You have a Dr. Bručan, he can tell you a lot of things from practice because he knows how to do it. Here you have Dr. Vlahović, who has written your comments, and you have another number of other emergency health care providers in local environments that can also advise and tell you a lot of things. Above all, if you want to achieve anything, you need to improve the expertise in the field of the implementation of this activity and reduce accessibility times. You know, as far as emergency medical care is concerned, we're not talking about whether I'm going to come back to surgery two days later or not. I can wait there for a month. Or maybe ten minutes later, I'll have my teeth ripped off. That's other stuff. But in these cases, when it comes to first aid, which you weaken by accessibility and quality, count that there will be absolutely no failure on our side in these cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I don't have much time, so I'm gonna have to be pretty short. The rules on emergency medical care are a sub-legislative act. The Ministry should not even have to put it into a public debate as it has given it, but it has. Why? Because she is aware of the importance of this and has done so in a responsible manner. Some of you are suggesting that we should include all possible stakeholders, local communities, I don't know who everyone is. Then there wouldn't be a rule at all, we all know that. So it's a rule book. This is a draft regulation and is now being debated. There is no final rule. This was just a draft, and we are debating the draft. I'd understand all the anger and accusations that are being made here today and more other meetings if we had a final rule, but we don't. This is just a draft, which is in public debate, and once again, I stress, I should not be. The proponents are very fond of mentioning this profession as a profession against it. I don't know, it's like we have two professions in this country, one for and one for. But the time will come when it will have to be said why this profession that is against it is against it. And this will have to be told to Slovenian citizens once. And if this is going to happen again for so long, it's going to have to be said why they're interested in it. I'm sure it's not for honest purposes, I can say that. As for the essence of what the minister has already said, you tell her not to respond. She's already said several things, even today, more than once, but it's like they haven't been heard. I've heard them well. And most importantly, the transitional period is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much. With my debate, I had a very fair intention — to draw attention to the problems that will occur in the environment, the environment of the health care home in Ribnica. Certainly things will be significantly worse as regards the quality of the service, the accessibility of the service and the financing of health activities in the municipality of Ribnica. The other thing is. The Ministry did not undertake this project responsibly because it did not produce any SWOT analysis if I say so at home. It showed neither the advantage nor the weakness nor the other. You don't have any of these on your desk. You don't have a chance to judge that. If the Ministry were to do so responsibly, it would first prepare an analysis of what we gain, what we lose, where we lose, what are the benefits on the one hand, what will be on the other. None of it is. And then there's the third thing, which is the problem. We did not receive a positive opinion on this rule in the National Assembly. Not a single positive opinion! You're talking about the profession, about political support and so on, and now let someone bring me one or two positive opinions. We have put them in material, if not mistaken, 23 who have come to the National Assembly, to the Committee or to individuals, and we have submitted them as opinions of professional, political, civil society and so on. You have no positive opinion on the part of your profession. There's all the doctors in the room, and the room says no. They suggested a postponement. You do not have a positive opinion of local communities, you do not have a positive opinion of individual areas, areas or regions affected and so on. And don't tell me it's about some honest purpose. It would be fair for you to prepare an analysis, a project and come before the National Assembly or before the professional public by analysing the effects of this Regulation. This is all done only by running from the upper and lower jaws, flying out information to the left, to the right, once such, once different, in the same solution written in an article of the Regulation – and this is said by the same person to be even worse. And I certainly hope we can say this now, we cannot talk about the Ministry having an honest purpose in this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Government, to her by Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. We have heard many times today, if the profession has an opinion, it is against, the profession disagrees, the profession proposes. Finally, we were able to find out who this profession was. It was very taxive to say that this profession is the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Association of Public Institutions and also primary health care. Allow me, but I'm going to quote right now, because I'm not just going to make excuses for the opinion of the profession, but I'm going to tell you what the profession says and what it wrote in its strategy. Earlier in the introduction or in the interim explanation, I have already read to you what this important profession, which will carry out the emergency medical care system, is the Association of Health Institutions, has written. This letter bears the date 5. 6, that's today. Perhaps, honourable Members, you read their opinion and letter before the beginning of the public debate or immediately after the public debate. And maybe I'll read it again in the end. And you'll know, I have one in my office, and unfortunately I didn't bring one map of e-mails and letters of support to both doctors and purely ordinary citizens, as well as the mayors, some of whom have also made public and identified themselves in these regional councils. And this profession, to which you are highly eloquent, is the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, is in its strategy to develop the emergency medical care system in Slovenia for the period 2010-2020 of 23. 3. 2011: "Organised NMP system we've been developing for 15 years." And we don't have it developed. It also says, among other things, that I will not read everything to you because everything is visible on the website, but you can read that many health establishments where NMP units are organised do not comply with the current NMP Service Regulations. I don't want to continue to tell you what that means in practice. "The coordinated management of the NMP system at the state level is currently missing. The parts of the NMP system are functionally linked and therefore the inefficiency of one inhibits the effectiveness of the other, which significantly affects the quality of treatment of life-threatening patients." And I could read to you. This is the current strategy for the development of the NMP system in Slovenia of one of the most important professions, the Medical Chambers of Slovenia. Well, let me get on with it. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'm just going to use my time, and I'm going to read to you again what the Health Association has written. "Dear Minister, in the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, we positively assess the position of the Ministry of Health that by the introduction of new emergency centres there will be no change to the organisational form of health homes so far in the provision of 24-hour health care. The rationalisation of the on-call network will be initiated once an appropriate database is made available at dispatch centres, on the basis of which a decision will be taken to reduce the network or the number of on-call outpatients. We believe that such a decision is good at a given time, but in particular it is wise. You can count on our active assistance and support in your efforts." 5. 6:00 p.m. And if I continue with the third part of the profession, on-call doctors or the entire primary health system, let me tell you what the so-called profession says. The profession and these people who have prepared this draft rule are those who have worked in this profession and on emergency medical care, as I said, for many years and know the system firsthand. Next. In the public network of primary health activities in the Republic of Slovenia, which, by the way, has been endorsed by the Health Council as the highest expert advisory body of the Minister of Health in the country and which obliges me to respect its views and conclusions, the material published in September 2013 – everything is accessible and readable. By the way, this document was sent to all the mayors, all the representatives of the local community, and prepared by the family medicine profession. It also lists all the analytical aspects of primary health care. Chapter 2.9 discusses the causes of the overload of family doctors, whom we are all aware of and which will also be an important proportion and priority given in the Resolution of the National Health Plan by 2025. Now let me tell you what's in this document at point 5. "Slovenia is one of the rare countries in Europe where doctors at the primary level are also responsible for covering emergency medical care in small places at regular intervals. This represents an additional burden which has a significant negative impact on the quality of healthcare work with regular patients. This is one of the stronger reasons that doctors reject, which would otherwise choose to work in family medicine." If I may continue to do so, also in this same document. In point 2.11. as another reason for the non-optimal execution of the work of family medicine, the work in emergency medical care is mentioned. Therefore, they propose a separation of the family medicine programme and emergency medical care. And what are we doing with this draft rule? That is exactly what we do — we separate family medicine so that these doctors will have more time for their designated patients, from emergency medical care, which is special care, and we must not simplify and compare it with on-call service. Today's debate has shown in a large number of cases that we believe that on-call service is the same as emergency medical care. This draft Regulation is only part of one of the regulations and other guidelines and documents which are being prepared by the Ministry of Health and which are necessary. Among other things, let me say that we have a Regulation on the conditions for the implementation of the 2006 Helicopter Emergency Medical Care under which Dr Bručan is signed. There is a need for change, of course. It is also necessary to establish a base in Maribor. We are preparing exactly the amendments to this Regulation because it has been mentioned several times. But we do have a rulebook. Then we are also preparing a draft regulation on uninterrupted healthcare, which would better and more transparently regulate the whole area. However, the rules governing the functioning of the health service are also guidelines and so on, so that we can complete and regulate in the long term as the other countries of Europe have. I have found, I have said, that we are the only ones in a narrow and broader area where emergency medical care is provided by family medicine doctors. Nowhere in Europe or anywhere else is that not the case. Why are we doing this? As I told you, the Medical Board says after 15 years of this, we don't have an order. Why? It is for the benefit of all of us, for the benefit of the citizens, that we really offer everyone timely, fast, quality health care when our lives are in a threatening state. And we are not taking anything, as I have already said, in which direction the final proposal of the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation will go – that we are not changing the way funding is, by the way, currently in lump sums. Primary receives €54 million per year for emergency medical care, but we do not know exactly whether it is used only for emergency medical care or for anything else. We're giving 32 million per second. And our goal is to track the money to the patient. Why? So that we know, as many of you have mentioned, what we are making our contributions to know what we can expect and get for this money. And that is the importance, transparency, which is also one of the long-term objectives of reform or, if you want, restructuring or upgrading. I think that something was answered to each question at the beginning, something also in between. I will assure and affirm once again: all comments will be taken into account in the final proposal of the Regulation. All those who have written comments will also receive an answer. I've said it very responsibly and I'll say it again. Among other things, let me say that it is not true what many debaters have said that we have not cooperated. We have already had a number of working-level meetings with many stakeholders in the preparation of the draft regulation itself, including with the President of the Association of Fire and with representatives of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue, at the stage when the draft regulation was being drawn up. However, you need to understand that someone needs to prepare an expert basis or an expert draft of a document. And then we went to a public debate. However, the public debate is to make comments, proposals if the will and desire of all to communicate is to be heard and to make the best final proposal to this Regulation. And nothing's gonna work on my nose, which I told the board yesterday. The extended transitional period, the duty station remains the same, and then we will check what the network will be like on the basis of the true reasoned data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm just going to read a few things from a document we've attached that was also published in the ISIS medical journal. It was written by a mag. Dusan Vlahović, Dr. med., UKC. "The abolition of individual pre-patient units or the removal of duty stations for physicians in individual environments cannot be defended by professional criteria." This is contrary to what the minister said. Second: "Delivering medical care to paramedics is a big step backwards for Slovenia." Thirdly: "The denial of medical care to a certain part of the population due to estimates which have an increased financial and political basis is totally unacceptable." Fourthly: "Replacement of doctors with medical techniques who have the authority to use medicines is contrary to the principles for which we have advocated the past 30 years, the essence of which is the presence of a doctor in the field." Fourthly, fifthly, sixthly: "When it comes to professionally justified criteria, it is likely that the economic profession is concerned, as the medical profession of these numbers cannot support, in particular the numbers relating to rural areas. After 20 minutes, interventions will be totally unnecessary." And the last quote: "Denmark's study has shown that response time is significantly related to survival." This is a few quotes from this text, published by the distinguished minister. In your 7th Article, however, you wrote that the intervention time in rural areas is extended from 12 to 20 minutes. However, Mr. Primary, who runs the clinic's emergency room, wrote that after 20 minutes the intervention was meaningless. So, we're talking about some of the professional criteria that are available to you and I think you're going to have a hard time taking us across the water, especially on criteria other than political or financial, and I've said this before, like weakening health clinics, health homes and transferring this money to somewhere else – that's probably the only criterion you're defending, and you probably follow that. We will strongly oppose, but we also have arguments in the documents we have attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u121	Thank you very much. This was more of a debate than a replica. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u122	I would ask the Vice-President to take into account that the replica is that the speaker tells us in which part he was misunderstood, and please, if Mr Tanko explains in which part he was misunderstood. I didn't hear him say anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The proposer shall have the floor, in his name Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, at the time of your appointment, you have sworn to work for the good of the citizens, and I believe in your words, which you said a few minutes ago, to work for the good of the people, already because of this oath. I hope that at the time when you are preparing the final version of the Regulation, you will use all the comments of this section and this section. You split the profession today because you said it was one of the professions, and the other is the uncle. We've already heard the difference in the accent. However, I have to tell you again that what I received from the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia bears date 7. 5 and 22. 5. – during the debate. And this profession, which you also call the Medical Chamber – Dr. Možina, clearly told you yesterday to stop the rulebook. He spoke on behalf of the doctors who are in this chamber, not on his own behalf. And you are today, 5. 6. at 1:00 p.m. at the beginning of the meeting to receive the opinion of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, positively. I can read a positive part for you in here, too. They welcome this Regulation, including in this part, but they make comments in the next three annexes and in the entire Regulation, and these comments are those to which we have warned today, and are those also given in the recommendations we have made. However, there are many smiles in the coalition, but it is perfectly normal, because you have six people from Ljubljana and you can convince the others, those from Lower Light, that nothing will happen to them. There are very few such Members from the SMC whose area will be at risk. We are now speaking hypothetically if such a rule is adopted. I must say that in all these comments and discussions, including on the committees, I have listened both to each other. And I have also read to you today the quotations of both of you, including Dr. Prosen, who has upset the most on the board of all those who advocate that in the rural area remain as it is, or that things improve, and that we do not extend the reaction time to 20 minutes. This is not allowed to be recorded in Article 7 of the Regulation. Madam Minister, in your closing speech, you have not answered a single question in particular. I asked you about specific cases, including on the committee, but you never specifically answered. I hope that when this regulation is finally in its final form, these concrete answers will be such that they will no longer be of concern and that we will no longer listen to the statements made by the expert commission at the Ministry of Health paid by taxpayers, so that people in rural areas can be satisfied with the first intermediaries. Such statements shall not be accepted by the members of the commission preparing such statements. I am most pleased today with Dr Gantar's debate, which said a great deal of what we discussed and discussed on the committee yesterday. It means that the rule is somewhere long-term, that we do not have human resources and financial coverage and that we need to take a step back. Not so that the area of emergency medical care in Slovenia is not regulated far from this. I think we all want this area settled. As you yourself have said, Madam Minister, this area is now not regulated and some do not respect certain matters under the existing rules. However, will they then respect the new rule? No one can guarantee this unless you make a health reform and you start making order where it is very, very necessary. In these days, the health care of many affairs is shaken, and I think today this debate has also shown that there is no unity in this area, that there is something contrary to you, I will say by your experts, professions and that you will also have to listen to this. If this rule is the first step towards reform, as you say, we are already doing health reform with the regulations, and it is such disdain and so many comments on the rulebook, then I wonder what it will be like when you put health reform on the table; somewhere at the end of the year, you should see the light of the world. The most interesting thing is the constant arrogant mockery of certain members of the ministry for every thing we say. Then give me an argument and tell me we're wrong. That it is not right that it is not what Dr. Man says, what all this profession is saying — that it is wrong that this is not true. These recommendations are certainly not such as to block a rule far from it. But we want to see these professional bases on which you have drawn up the draft regulation, the existing map of all emergency medical care with a reaction response time, tell us how the status of emergency centres has been regulated, how the emergency centres will operate at the end of the year – so that we will not have an extraordinary meeting on how the emergency centres do not work – so as not to shorten the response time to keep the on-call service open 24 hours. You're saying we're replacing the NMP and the duty station. Then it's replaced by all the doctors we've been reporting today. In addition to adopting the rules on dispatching health services, on the implementation of helicopter emergency assistance, to specify precisely the first intermediaries, who will be the first intermediaries, who will educate them, who will activate them, how and what powers they will have. And also, as I speak, the moral and criminal responsibility of these first intermediaries. Please also specify the child’s emergency medical care. You yourself have said that this is not regulated, and you do not regulate it with this rule. Once again, as you said, if you are working for the good of all – I believe that these words are sincere – then take into account the strong comments of all these doctors, associations, associations and so on, which represent the greatest gathering of doctors and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. We move to a vote on the point of the updated proposal for a recommendation and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the second point of the supplementary proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I merely state that those who still have their time at their disposal can apply for the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 2 of the updated proposal for a recommendation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u126	Madam President, thank you for your word. On behalf of the SMC Group, I would like to say that the proposed SDS amendment tabled today will not be supported for the reasons already explained. In the original proposal, there were 8 points, of which 3 to 8 were rejected on the Health Committee yesterday. The same content is now intended to be included by the proposer of this amendment in point 2 of this Recommendation. We had an argument yesterday about why we're against it. We support only and only recommendations that do not prevent the work of the Ministry of Health from continuing with the preparation of this Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u127	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u128	No recommendation shall impede further work on the Emergency Medical Service Regulations. It is complemented by what you have amended yesterday, in order to take into account all the key comments that have been made in the public debate and to include them in the new regulation, and to submit to the competent committee, prior to the adoption of the Emergency Medical Services Regulation, expert analyses, what I have already said, a map, comparative analyses, SWOT analysis to regulate the status of emergency centres, to allow, once again, a shorter intervention period than the existing one, to adopt a helicopter health service regulation to identify the first intermediaries, a child emergency medical assistance to define a longer transitional period and to maintain a 24-hour duty service. None of these recommendations were rejected by the Minister yesterday and today. She said that 24-hour on-call assistance is being maintained, so that's not the problem. That the intervention time was running out, it's not a problem either. That we have a rule on dispatch, helicopter service, no problem. The first intermediaries, we've also heard, are defined by her. In order to identify the child’s emergency medical care and to define a longer transitional period. That's what she was talking about. And you're rejecting what the secretary said wasn't a problem. Is it possible that there is an expert and SWOT analysis problem? The status of emergency centres is also regulated. So what are you up against? Why are you against it? Because the proponents of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the NSI. All the proposals were confirmed by the Minister! There's no problem! Yesterday, you also said no to all those proposals that were approved by the government. I really don't understand that logic. Then I can only understand this, the voting machine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. In the future, I would like to ask you nicely, because there has been a delay in raising your voice to explain your voice. Because that was part of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u130	I'm sorry. We will, of course, vote in favour of the recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] Anybody want a personal name? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 2 of the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 40. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the updated proposal for a recommendation. Anybody want to explain their voice? Here you go, Mr. Primož Hainz. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u132	No, in an individual name. But if anyone wants to do it on behalf of the Group of Members, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u133	Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? Miha Kordish, please, on behalf of the delegation. Mr. Primoz Hainz, please, if you'll excuse me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u134	President, thank you very much for your word. In the United Left, we will abstain from voting on this matter. What would be fair and right on our part would be that the proposal brought to the table by the SDS and NSI would have been rejected. But unfortunately we don't have that luxury to say it because we have to deal with something else at a limited time. Specifically, the coalition prefers to support a decision that the Committee has changed to a non-recognition. What is now being imposed on the Ministry could, in fact, be achieved with one question from the Member States, with one letter from the Chairman of the Health Committee and, in the extreme case, with a reference to an urgent meeting, and in no way would we need a plenary session to do so. What happened? The debate was again used to discredit the Slovenian health development programme, as promised in the coalition contract and by the socialists, contrary to what other points of your programme we actually support. And what happened, and not for the first time, was that the Government and, above all, the client of Mira Cerar really did not actively defend their own public health programme. That's the thing we're worried about in the United Left. At the previous regular session, we discussed recommendations that were nothing more than an open attack on compulsory health insurance and propaganda for certain commercial insurance. And how did the government answer that? She did not answer, she did not really just avoid it, and the biggest ruling party was silent with the exception of some rare exceptions. And even with these recommendations, the story is similar. The honorary exception here is a colleague of Erika Girl's. He's here. The government or coalition avoided confrontation. For example, in the opinion of the government, it did not shake the proposal to reduce the health insurance contribution rate in less accessible regions, although it knows that such an arrangement would only exacerbate access to emergency medical care, even though it knows that it would destroy one of the few remaining pillars of social solidarity. The government fears any confrontation, withdraws completely on all lines. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to make your own promises entered into the coalition contract, you will have to confront the lobby of commercial insurance companies sitting on 475 million of our common money. These amended recommendations that you have adopted on the committee, an expensive coalition, are the avoidance of the confrontation that is necessary if we are to overcome those lobbying that block the progress of the public health system. That's why the socialists won't support them either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Let me first say that I agree with the first part of the explanation of the voice of a comrade from the United Left until it gets a little carried away. I would like to say that the proposal for a recommendation, as it then went from the Health Committee, is said to be with two points, we support the Modern Centre Party Group. But I would only appeal to the Ministry to allow time and opportunity to work and to deal with this matter. They have already said and I believe that they will take a responsible approach, take into account all the comments that have already come from the public debate and will come. And once again, what a colleague said: what we had today is indeed a pure abuse of Parliament. Thank you. However, as I said at the outset, it was obviously over-heard: we will support this recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u137	It was in the beginning, yeah. It was. Procedurally, here you go, Jernej Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u138	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will only respond to the fact that, in the event of the convening of extraordinary parliamentary meetings, from now on, it is an abuse of Parliament. On a procedural basis, on what Mr. Zorman said before me. Opposition [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] The opposition has called [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u139	A little more peace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u140	The opposition called an extraordinary meeting with an argument because the profession and members of the opposition disagree with the regulation being drawn up at the Ministry of Health. How can one say that when the opposition convenes an extraordinary meeting, Parliament is abused? This was the last sentence of that Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u141	What's your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u142	May I have your warning, please? Or share with your colleagues from the Rules of Procedure Coalition and the Constitution that they will at least learn that they are in Parliament and that there is a constitutional order in this country, not that they talk about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure if the opposition convenes an extraordinary meeting of Parliament, not on any subject, but on a topic that is very important – health, ladies and gentlemen. For this reason, let us act responsibly and give understanding to democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Desus Group, Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We will support the proposal for a decision adopted on the home working body. The Ministry has committed itself to taking into account the important comments. It is right that the mother labour body should be re-examined before final adoption of the Regulation in the light of any controversy, as well as the comments made by that body. That is why our vote on the proposal is valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Mr. Primoz Hainz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. As he said on behalf of the Group of Members, Dr. Gantar, I will vote in favour. However, I must say that for this draft recommendation in my electoral unit, which I almost have to mention, Vrhnika, Log-Dragomer and Blueberry, there is no special enthusiasm – although I have some reflections, say from Dolenjska, but very good, but this is another topic. I came to my attention more because today there was a talk about how Eastern Slovenia was not covered by helicopters. I wrote a letter to the President of the Government months ago when the army bought or bought drones, and then I wrote that I think Slovenia would need helicopters because we need them at home and we need them for a variety of assistance, including this kind of assistance. And I think the case is still extremely topical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Part related to the debate. Now, in his own name, Mr. Franc Ly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u148	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I didn't get a chance before. Many times I was mentioned here today in the National Assembly. I think I have the greatest support here today. It is my duty to say, too, that I will support this proposal for a decision, because I believe that it will take into account all the constructive comments made, especially for an area which was somehow left out in the first step, that it will not be removed in the future. But to all those of you who have expressed your support, I sincerely thank you. I hope for the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-05-SDZ7-Izredna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. I also conclude the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice weekend. Thank you very much.
