ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the fourth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, Mrs Jelka Godec, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Matthew Tonin, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Happy Blažič, Mag. Ange Logar, Dr. Franc Trček, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec and Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker from 16:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — PROPOSAL OF A PHYSICAL RULES LEGISLATION LEGISLATION, FIRST REVELATION. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the 52 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! After a good month there is a new proposal for a fiscal rule law before you, and this time, as you know, it is the government's proposal. Allow me to briefly present the history of the preparation of the proposal. In May 2013, the Constitutional Act amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in order to achieve long-term stability of public finances. Healthy public finances are one of the key elements for achieving a stable macroeconomic environment and economic development. Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia lays down the principle that the revenue and expenditure of the state's budgets must be at least balanced in the medium term without debt. It also provides that the manner and time frame for the implementation of this principle shall be specified in more detail by law adopted by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority within six months of the entry into force of this constitutional amendment. This deadline, as you know, has already been greatly exceeded. As a result of the delay in the adoption of the implementing law, our government has approached the drafting of the Fiscal Rule Bill immediately after its term of office. The text of the Draft Fiscal Rule Law was adopted in early December at its 12th regular session and sent immediately to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. Since then, a number of coordination has taken place with all parliamentary parties in order to reach broad support for the adoption of the law. In these discussions, the Government has shown that it is ready to make sustainable compromises, such as follow or are within the framework of the provisions of the Constitution of Slovenia and the Stability Pact. The draft implementing law, which was discussed in the National Assembly in December 2014, could not be supported mainly for two reasons, due to conceptual differences compared to the government proposal already submitted to the National Assembly at that time. Firstly, the proposal by Members did not allow fiscal policy to be used to mitigate fluctuations in economic activities within frameworks that do not jeopardise the medium-term sustainability of public finances. Secondly, due to methodological difficulties in determining the actual state of the economy within the economic cycle, there would be a risk, on the basis of a proposal from the Member State, that fiscal policy would operate pro-cyclically and thereby increase economic shocks. I hope that we have been able to explain and explain in a number of interviews over the last two months, thus achieving the acceptability of the bill currently under consideration for the opposition political parties as well. Here again, I would like to point out that the Government's proposal for a fiscal rule law provides a very strict framework for the conduct of public financial policy. I point out this because, based on past discussions, it has been evident that some opinions are contrary to this. The adoption of the proposed law means that public finances must be balanced structurally over the next few years, which, given the structural deficit of more than 2% and 700 million euros, will be an extremely difficult task. The fact that the sector has been a country in the last 15 years, even in times of greatest economic growth, shows how difficult it will be, structurally always has been a deficit. Nevertheless, the structural balance of public finances over the medium term is something that almost generally needs to be achieved. Dear Members and Members! Please have this common goal before you when you decide to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u3	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the SDS Group of Members, in its name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Honorable Council of Ministers! I will continue to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the fiscal rule. We cannot go beyond the fact that Slovenia has been in unconstitutional condition for more than a year now, for the National Assembly has not been able to adopt implementing law, not under the rule of Alenka Bratušek, nor under the rule of Mira Cerar. This implementing law should be adopted by November 2013. On 24 May 2013, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Constitutional Act amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and determining how to enforce this amended Article of the Constitution. In Article 148(1), it provided that all revenue and expenditure to finance public expenditure must be covered by the budget of the State. The revenue and expenditure of the country's budget must be balanced in the medium term and without any debt or must exceed the expenditure. This principle may only be temporarily derogated from in exceptional circumstances for the State. The law adopted by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members sets out the manner and timing of the implementation of the constitutional principle of balance, the criteria for determining exceptional circumstances and the manner in which they are to be followed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess that the state of public finances is worrying. The trend of extreme indebtedness began under the government of Borut Pahor. The debt trend continued under the government of Alenka Bratušek, and last but not least one of the first actions of the Government of Mir Cerar was also a re-indebted one. The state of public finances in Slovenia is that the debt exceeds more than 80% of GDP, compared with other European Union countries, we could say that this debt is still sustained in some ways, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we estimate that the main problem is that in 2014, we had to pay more than 1.1 billion euros on interest alone. In doing so, it should be stressed that the annual revenue to the budget is only slightly more than €8 billion. From this title, we could say that 15% of all annual revenues are spent on paying these interest. So we're only going to spend 15% on interest payments. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess that the fiscal rule must be adopted urgently and that we have also committed ourselves to the Constitution and, consequently, it should be stressed that, at the end of 2014, the Slovenian Democratic Party decided to table a proposal for a fiscal rule in the procedure of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, at the time, the law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party was not supported and there were in fact reasons or arguments by the current government and coalition to prepare a new fiscal law that was supposed to be more substantively completed than the proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The law referred to in the third paragraph of amended Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was not even proposed for adoption in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia until this proposal was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We estimate that the damage to Slovenia has already been done by the non-admission of this fiscal law. It should be noted that Slovenia has been in an unconstitutional state for more than a year. The final and actual implementation of the fiscal rule, or the rules on the balance of public finances, and in particular its implementation in the country's budget, has measurable positive effects both on the credit rating countries and on the interest rate at which the State is indebted. During such an unconstitutional public finances situation, on 11 February 2014, the Republic of Slovenia owed $3.5 billion for five and ten years. If the implementing law under Article 148 of the Constitutional Act were adopted and the budgetary policy would be implemented in accordance with the principles laid down in Article 148 of the Constitutional Law, interest rates could be significantly lower. Data from other comparable countries show that for at least 1 % of the points, which means that the country's indebtedness in this case would be cheaper by at least $35 million per year. On 28 October 2014, the Republic of Slovenia commissioned Mira Cerar for an additional 1 billion additionally more favourable interest rates than had previously been owed by the government of Alenka Bratušek, mainly due to international economic developments in the financial markets and the actions of the European Central Bank. Nevertheless, the timely adoption of the fiscal rule law could achieve an even lower interest rate, which would also take into account the legal framework of the fiscal rule law, which would contribute to the medium- and long-term consolidation of public finances. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess that the implementing law on the fiscal rule must mainly provide for budgetary discipline. The basis for this is also, of course, the Constitution, which has clearly set out how Slovenia must implement this fiscal rule. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess that the consequences of this and responsibility must be accepted by those who have not prepared this implementing law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that this implementing law is necessary for a number of reasons that we have already listed. On the other hand, the implementing law on fiscal rules should be in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because the implementing law on fiscal rules will protect citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, whether it will be left or medium, or the right government, from enormous indebtedness. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that we are not adopting the implementing law because of Brussels, but we are adopting it for ourselves. However, it should also be pointed out that the implementing law must be substantive in such a way as to clearly determine when expenditure should be limited. It should be pointed out that, at first glance, the proposal made by the Government of Mira Cerar leaves many questions open. We estimate that the content part currently on the table does not satisfy all the views the Slovenian Democratic Party has on the content that the fiscal rule should contain. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect that, during today's debate, the Minister of Finance will be able to explain which matters are important to them and, of course, whether the proposed law is being considered to be complementary in some segments. We expect a constructive debate today and also the condition for this is, for the adoption or approval of this fiscal rule, the actual answers and clarifications by the Ministry of Finance. It is particularly important for Slovenia to receive this implementing law, but above all it is important that this fiscal rule contains all the content that will clearly stipulate that Slovenia will in the future be able to have balanced public finances, a balanced budget and that it will be a safeguard for every government, so that Slovenia will not be able to incur enormous debt. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also assess that, in view of all the events that have taken place, and in view of all the things that have happened, because this fiscal rule should have been established more than one year ago, that we are probably wondering at a given time whether a new fiscal rule that will be adopted can be followed by constitutional principles, the constitutional rule that the fiscal rule will begin to apply as early as 2015. Here, of course, we expect further clarifications from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u5	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u6	Dear President, President of the Government, distinguished fellow ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Desus Group, we are aware that the global financial and economic crisis has seriously affected the entire European Union and thus Slovenia. If Slovenia is to be genuinely good and sincere in helping to recover and, above all, to prevent the recurrence of a similar crisis, we need to adopt rules that mainly limit public spending and thus the extent to which it owes to the current public spending. In May 2013, in the Desus Group, we supported the amendment of the Constitution, which introduced a fiscal rule into this highest legal act. This, of course, is what we have done in order to ensure better respect for budgetary discipline and more responsible treatment of public finances. In order to adopt the relevant fiscal rules to strengthen fiscal discipline, however, we are bound by the fiscal pact. By incorporating the fiscal rule into the Constitution, the Republic of Slovenia has sent an important message on Slovenia's commitment to fiscal discipline. Furthermore, we believe that the implementation of the fiscal rule, in particular its implementation in the country's budget, has measurable positive effects on the country's credit rating, on the interest rate at which each country is indebted. It is true that we have committed ourselves to adopting the implementing act by the end of November 2013. And it is true that we have not yet done so. The question of whether the political crisis, the change of government, early elections helped. Maybe, probably. Or perhaps, or certainly, this must not be the reason that we still do not have a fiscal law. Therefore, the position of our Group of Members, the Desus Group, is that we must urgently and promptly adopt a quality law to implement this constitutional provision. The opposition will probably say on this occasion that we had their marriage on the table at the previous meeting and we rejected it. Of course that's true. But why? The main reason why the Desus Group reacted negatively was, of course, that the proposed opposition law was very restrictive, much more restrictive than this, allowing much less room for manoeuvre, and, last but not least, he also questioned the establishment of a demographic fund. In order to establish this fund – as you well know and is also enshrined in the coalition agreement – Desus has been working from the very beginning and, of course, will also keep strict watch over the fact that the matter is being realized. Why am I exposing this to this place? The basic purpose of the demographic fund is to provide additional resources to finance the pension pillar. It is therefore intended to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension fund or pension scheme for demographic reasons. The fact is that the inflows to the pension allowance from year to year are lower and the number of pensioners is increasing. These are demographic facts. As a result, the state budget is becoming increasingly burdensome. Additional resources from the administration of the State budget would at least partially replace the funds and consequently relieve the pressure on the budget. The implementing law now before us is different, since it does not limit the establishment or financing of the demographic fund, is more flexible, has more room for manoeuvre and, in our opinion, is suitable for adoption. In the Desus Group, it also seems important to us that the law leaves the so-called Swiss formula, which is more suitable for countries with fiscal, even their own monetary, i.e. monetary policy. Slovenia, as a member of the euro area, no longer has its own and monetary policy and therefore requires at least part of the fiscal policy, an autonomous fiscal policy, to react quickly to economic shocks or other exceptional circumstances. The proposed law allows us more flexibility in the implementation of fiscal policy and at the same time gives us more room for countercyclical economic policy. In good economic times, it requires higher budget surpluses, and in poorer ones it allows higher deficits, thus allowing the country greater opportunities for economic growth. In Desus we allow the possibility that when the law is confirmed at this stage, there will also be possible changes. At the same time, in the Desus Group, we reiterate and point out that the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution must by no means affect the area of the socially weak target groups and the area of pensions. Desus insisted in the creation of a coalition agreement that measures for the consolidation of public finances were designed to have as little negative consequences for the competitiveness and growth of the Slovenian economy as possible and to be implemented at the same time in a way that did not affect the most vulnerable target groups. We will keep abreast of this in the course of the legislative process and will take care of it. In the Desus Group, we are aware that the adoption of the law requires at least a vote of work, but we would like the whole opposition, because a two-thirds majority is required for the adoption of the law. We believe that the proposal for a law drafted and tabled by the Government will receive broad support, as we have seen in the case of the adoption or amendment of the constitutional law. In conclusion, the proposal for a law will support all ten of our Members and Members of Parliament in the hope that the proposal will allow for a balance of public finances, macroeconomic stability and long-term prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia, more precisely its population and people, without harming the most vulnerable target group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u7	The SD Group, Mr Matjaž Han, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr President, President of the Government, Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! We are back before the debate on the fiscal rule or its implementing law. This is attributed to the fact that in 2013 the National Assembly confirmed the entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution and, despite repeated attempts, the law was not able to be brought through the legislative procedure. Looking back at the situation in which it grew and light speed spread across the European space the idea of a fiscal rule, respected, we see that the fiscal rule in the years of the biggest crisis has become some kind of a fire extinguisher to put out the fires of major budgetary deficits, debts and ever-increasing imbalances in countries. What soon turned out to be the idea of how a fiscal rule would save the public finances of European countries, how only it would be possible to extinguish this dangerous fire that was spreading and could threaten not only budgets, but the development of the whole area – two kinds of people adopted such a fiscal rule. One, we can call them naive well-intentioned, saw in the fiscal rule the only salvation for all budgetary torments. Without these, we will once again be able to lay the foundations for economic growth, and with a balanced budget, we will be able to obtain credible protection that will prevent the unanimous and radical moves of individual governments. And the second group is a group of people we can call speculators with their own interests. This group of people saw in the fiscal rule an excellent opportunity to cut off with all that takes away the opportunity to profit, which sustains and allows collective earning logic, which is a social state, public education, public health a great thorn in the heel. They quietly, through various proposals, also hid themselves in debates on the so-called fiscal rule. Their voice was sometimes heard in the search for consensus to bypass the guards who would have a fiscal rule of protection against him himself. If I mentioned the fiscal rule earlier as a fire extinguisher, it would be a group of naive, so-called well-intentioned, say that we put out this budget fire and further wet the entire forest without fire. The other group, that group of speculators, says that nothing, we prefer to cut the forest and the thing is done – alas, the cold that will remain, let's take it to safety. Social Democrats cannot agree to any of the logics of these two groups; one that says that all our wider European family offers us is dry gold at all costs, and the other, through fiscal rule, hopes for excellent opportunities for earnings and various machinations. The fiscal rule, respectable, is not a dry gold that will solve all the budgetary problems that we can adapt to and apply every month, given our individual political interests. The fiscal rule, respected, is a serious commitment, which is needed in a way – to benefit us, regardless of the circumstances of economic growth, regardless of which option will be in power. In discussing the fiscal rule, we reiterate that this is not a rule and is not a single manoeuvre. Such a fiscal rule in its essence is not just a law that we are considering today, it is not just a constitutional record that will in itself help us towards a medium-term balanced budgetary policy; it is a series of measures, a series of actions that must primarily take care of the vulnerable balance between budget expenditure and revenue and, on the other hand, must not disrupt the fundamental constitutional requirements adopted by our society, our country. That Slovenia is a social state, which is enshrined in the Constitution, today is a dictatorship that does not go lightly from the mouth. During the years of the crisis, the social state has been tested so many times, and it is misleading to think that with positive predictions and promise we will spare her something. Not only is it misleading, even misleading, to have on the ground an implementing law on a fiscal rule that can not only endanger not only the social state but also destroy it when it is misused or implemented. That is why we Social Democrats remain skeptical of any attempt to maneuver with a fiscal rule without clear and unequivocal commitments after the moderate implementation of its objective. We see moderation in that we do not want it, we do not want it, and we will not agree with the enormous cuts and cancellations at the expense of the weakest. Of course, if Europe did not know and perceive the other trends that it would have promised us, it would have been kind to us. [[Incomprehensible]] However, this nod would soon change concerns if we were to witness negative trends, unemployment, poverty and even more widespread society. Social Democrats did not agree to this, we do not land and we will never land! The text of the implementing rule, as it is now at the table, is thus not the discovery of hot water and the fruit of major political compromises. The fiscal rule must be a serious commitment and not least, if you want, a compromise between all political parties in Slovenia. It is a proposal that has gone a long way through all debates, through all opinions and through all views. Social Democrats are pleased that the proposaler has listened to our warnings that if we have to have a fiscal rule, if we really want to do something with it, then moderation, then responsibility, care for the most vulnerable compass that must follow this rule and not vice versa. So that we will not remain silent when the social state becomes just a irrelevant branch in the service of an all-powerful fiscal rule at the expense of the people, so we have insisted on the commitment of the Social Democrats that the applicant must take into account the circumstances and the time in which the fiscal rule can be fully enforced. At the same time, the State must have room for manoeuvre on the revenue side. Above all, once again, the fiscal rule must not to the least step on the competitive path with the social state. It's over. When we talk so much about fiscal rules, it would be a time to put aside the rule — if you want, a social rule — a rule that will not only protect the budget but will protect the social state, public education, public health. The text of the implementing law on fiscal rules, as proposed, is acceptable to the Group of Social Democrats, and we will, of course, also support the decision on appropriateness for further consideration at this stage of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable President of the Government, colleague and colleague! The Federal Republic of Germany has never had a flat budget since 1969. One month ago, I warned the applicants of the Swiss formula, and today I am addressing the finance minister, the government and coalition partners with this warning. However, I do not mention Germany by chance, but rather as a country that, after World War I and II, experienced two huge debt crises. After World War I, the winners insisted on repaying and repaying all debts, two of the key reasons for the severe deterioration of the economic and social conditions in Germany in the next decade, which pressured the rise of Nazism. After World War II, therefore, the winners did not make that mistake again. By the London Agreement of 1953, the German authorities cancelled half the debt and the rest of the debt was reprogrammed. The reprogram contract provided that Germany would only repay the debt in the years when it had an external trade surplus and that the repayment would not exceed 3 % of the export revenue; therefore, Germany only paid the debt in the years when it had an surplus and the repayment did not exceed 3 % of the export revenue and half of the debt was cancelled. These conditions, respected colleagues and colleagues, were a condition for a German economic miracle after World War II. The German debt write-off case is precisely to see how debt crises have been resolved in the past. What about today? The fiscal rule is literally the opposite of write-offs and debt reprogramming. The fiscal rule is a tool to recover inherited investments from financial speculators directly from the populations of affected countries with nothing to do with the financial crisis. Again, the high public debts of European countries are not the cause of the current crisis, but the result. The crisis started in the deregulated financial sector, moved on to the interbank market, and from there countries had to jump in to avoid a complete collapse of the global financial system. Thus, the increased deficits and high debts of countries in recent years have been due to the recapitalisation of most private banks and funds with trillions of taxpayer money. Contrary to the resolution of the crisis after World War II, this time European economic and political elites have not decided to resolve this crisis with the combination of economic growth and inflation, which is working, which is a proven fact, but have decided to go directly to the shoulders of the population. This is also contrary to the decision, such as Japan and the United States, where the debt crisis is solved by monetary tools. What fiscal consolidation means during the crisis, we have also seen in Slovenia. We already have a fourth successive government that has tackled the debt crisis by reducing social rights and tightening the belts to the weakest groups of the population, the unemployed, the pensioners, the public workers, the teachers, now even the students. But if ever, after five years of so-called fiscal consolidation crisis resolution, it is perfectly clear that it leaves behind social and economic devastation, but at the same time does not achieve the basic objective of reducing public debt. Indeed, since 2010, when the European Commission and most of the European Union Member States have decided on the path of fiscal consolidation and debt repayment through the tightening of belts, the debt, the total debt of the euro area countries, has increased from EUR 7 000 900 billion to today’s EUR 9 000 billion. So for a thousand billion euros, debt has increased over the last three years, while countries have been saving to pay it off. There is probably no need to repeat what social and economic devastation has occurred in the whole euro area, and in particular in its periphery, Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy and also in Slovenia is unfortunately on this path. Today's debate is the first one, i.e. conceptual treatment, so I would like to give an overall assessment of the policy based on fiscal and similar rules and an analysis of the political implications. The fiscal rule is how to raise the doctrine of fiscal consolidation to the highest level, to the level of constitutional commitment. It is the incorporation of a wrong neoliberal policy into the Constitution and the law. In the Slovenian case, this goes directly against the will of the people, as no party with the neoliberal programme has ever received a majority of the votes in the elections, and no government that has led such a policy has endured until the end of the four-year term. I would therefore like to remind the President of the Government and Members of the coalition once again of how this unfortunate fiscal rule was in the Slovenian legal order. On 2 March 2012, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union was signed in the European Union. This was a non-binding international treaty, which was not signed by the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom at all. But our government, which was then run by the far rightist SDS, ratified this treaty in the National Assembly within three weeks. And even though such contracts are directly applicable in our legal order, this party insisted on entering the Constitution. In the meantime, the government fell, but it is not sad that it did not interfere with the fiscal rule in the constitution. The new coalition supported the entry of the fiscal rule in exchange for, watch out, support for right-wing parties in banning the referendum. So the parties, members of European liberals and Socialists and Democrats have adopted a fiscal rule to reduce the democratic level of human rights. The ban on referendum decisions on matters having budgetary implications has been adopted, despite the fact that only one referendum has been held over 20 years to regulate these contributions. This was the pension reform and the pension law of the Pahor government. The issue here was not the amount of contributions, but the pension conditions. Pahor's government's big mistake, which led to its collapse, was to turn against its own base instead of accepting a compromise that was adopted a year later as PPIZ-2. The ban on decision-making at the referendum has been adopted, despite the fact that there are no such prohibitions in countries with comparable arrangements for the referendum, in this case, say Switzerland, and despite the fact that only one referendum has been organised on all these issues in 22 years. I have described this sad episode because there are about half of the Members in this House who have nothing to do with it. However, we have been chosen with promises and with the hope of ending the hateful practices of non-democraticism. We have to ask ourselves when we will agree to this enforcement policy, even though we know it is wrong. By what time will we take into account illegal commitments on privatisation, on reducing deficits, on anti-democratic policies enshrined in the Constitution? Ladies and gentlemen from the so-called middle, do you not see that by agreeing to the facts carried out each day we are closer to the far right fantasy of the second republic, although you already have three consecutive mandates in this national council, and although the idea of the second republic is completely opposed by more than two thirds of the Slovenian electoral body. Fiscal consolidation, part of which is a fiscal rule, will not solve the debt crisis, not even the debt crisis of that scale. Perhaps the world’s most famous economist of our time, Thomas Piketty, was recently in an interview about this: no country in world history has saved the debt in this way and cannot. In monitoring the social tragedy in Greece, Jože P. Damian added that no country could repay such debts without destroying half of its economy and killing half its population and stopping the revolution earlier. History clearly confirms that. Ceaușescu, Romania, which was one of the few countries that solved the debt crisis during the recession and the tightening of the belts, had 28% of public debt at the start of the debt crisis following Mexico’s bankruptcy in 1981. Slovenia has 80 today, Romania had 28 at the time. The authorities there have decided to resolve this debt crisis by tightening the belts and older people are likely to remember the extremes that this has brought: electricity outage, heating up in winter, rationalising egg and meat consumption, total social and economic destruction. By the end of the decade, the dictator had actually repaid the debt, 28% of it, and ended up in front of the wall. Let us take a look at two other examples, how the debt crisis is actually resolved in a civilized way. Great Britain's debt was the end of World War II 240% of GDP. 240%! In the next 20 years, Britain managed to reduce it to below 100% and to 68% by 1971. How? Debt was not reduced due to savings, but vice versa, on the only normal path, with a combination of reprogramming of credits, inflation and economic growth. And at that time, so I'm talking about the period from 1945 to 1971, in Britain there was a modern social state, with virtually full employment, the standard was increasing, the working class rose in the middle, inflation was always manageable, on average around 4.3% per year, never exceeded 12%. In both social and economic terms, this was the best period in British history. To avoid going too far, let us remind ourselves of a domestic case. In Yugoslavia and Slovenia too, last but not least, we experienced a debt crisis. In contrast to any more pro-American, Eastern European country, Governor Arhar has repeatedly stressed that not a cent of debt has been written off in Slovenia. Now we know that this is completely not true because it has been written down for some time to the Croatian and Bosnian savers of the Ljubljana Bank, but it is not essential. It is essential that Slovenia recovers from the debt crisis in these years in a normal way, i.e. economic growth and inflation, not fiscal consolidation. How did that happen? In 1992, workers with strong opposition from the then government, with a general statement, achieved a rise in real wages and the increase in wages led to an increase in domestic demand and thereby an increase in economic growth. Slovenia had a deficit of 1.6% in the next decade and half over the entire period, with an average of 1.6% by 2004 in some years fluctuating to 3%; it had a surplus only in 1996 and 1993. However, although we had a 15-year government deficit, which would have been prohibited by the fiscal rule, the debt never exceeded 30% of GDP at that time. Why? Because inflation partly helped because we were in debt in the Tolars, the main contribution was economic growth, which was increasingly higher than government deficits. During this time, Slovenia grew organically and as a whole, i.e. the country, population and businesses were a net creditor across the board, deficits and debt were under Maastricht conditions, and payment deficits were below 2%. All these experiences are completely contrary to what is today the dominant direction of the European Commission and its Member States. Therefore, I repeat my assessment: the fiscal rule is a flawed, harmful and dangerous project. Improper because deficits are a normal part of the capitalist economy; harmful because they inhibit growth and social development, and dangerous because they are extreme situations where democratically elected authorities and citizens lose control of social events, the historical breeding ground of fascism. This is again shown today when in Greece after 70 years the fascism is once again becoming a normal part of parliamentary life, I am talking about the Golden Dawn, and similarly in Ukraine, where fascism with active support from NATO and the EU is becoming even the dominant political life, where, by the way, the IMF and the European Union are implementing a similar programme of exclusion of the population and fiscal consolidation as a troika in Greece. It is also intended to maintain the co-operation regime in power and to ensure that foreign creditors to Ukraine are paid. We are experiencing déjà vu from South America and Weimar Germany. I am now moving on to a concrete assessment of the government proposal. The clear point of this proposal is definitely that it will probably not have to be applied during the period of crisis. The finance minister and the prime minister seem to have understood this, as this law allows the country more room for manoeuvre than the proposal of the extreme right. That proposal was directly suicidal. Exceptional circumstances have identified as much as possible the rigid and strict fiscal rule should not be applied only in cases where the 3% decline in GDP in one or two years, which Slovenia experienced only twice in the last 20 years: the first time in 2009, when the financial crisis hit Slovenia, and the second time, together in 2013 and 2012, when the then government with the ZUJF managed to draw the country into another recession. But even in this case, this criterion, proposed by the Swiss formulae, has barely been met because GDP overall decreased by 3.6% in both years. What I'm saying is that this formula would only suspend the fiscal rule in really extreme circumstances. But today it is rare to recall that before that, according to 2010 and 2011, economic growth has already occurred, but if fiscal rule were then in force, as suggested by the extreme right, we should radically reduce spending already in these years. After this scenario, Slovenia would have fallen into recession two years before the ZUJF. The government proposal in this sense means a step forward because it does not provide for fixed conditions of exceptional circumstances, but leaves the decision to the Fiscal Council. It is also a step forward that when a fiscal rule is not applied, the Government will ultimately decide – in principle, a democratically elected body, not a technocrat institution such as the Fiscal Council. But this solution, too, does not solve fiscal problems. This means – these provisions mean, we are talking about Articles 12 and 13 – that the law will probably be a little more durable in times of crisis, because at this time, if the will of the Government and the Fiscal Council is to cease to apply, but what concerns us in the United Left is how the fiscal rule will work in normal times and in a transitional period when exceptional circumstances end and the so-called correction mechanism is triggered. More when there will be a discussion of an individual article. What I would like to point out here is a simulation of the hypothetical functioning of the Swiss and government fiscal rules between 2000 and 2014, prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The key is to look here at how both rules work out in normal times. Let's say we take the period from 2000 to 2005. During this year, GDP in Slovenia grew on average by 3.7% per year, the country, the population and the economy were net creditors abroad, unemployment was declining, social rights levels were solid. Slovenia, however, had a constant fiscal deficit at that time, with an average of 2.7%, but the public debt, as I said earlier, has not increased due to economic growth, has always been below 30% of GDP. But the key is this: what would happen if the fiscal rule applied then? According to government calculations, between 2000 and 2005, instead of an average of 2,7 % of the government deficit, which also ensured stable growth, they should have a general government surplus instead. What does that mean? If we take, for example, 2002 when growth was 3.8%, fiscally, we should reduce public spending by 750 million euros this year, according to a government proposal. 750 million! This year, according to the 2002 report, total social benefits amounted to EUR 346 million. This means that if we are to achieve this public financial objective, we should eliminate all the revenues of social transfers in order to achieve this 750 million. So I ask, what would that mean if we had a fiscal rule in 2002 and we should reduce these expenses? How many public servants should be fired? How much to reduce social assistance? How long would it take to cut your pension? And; would such a fiscal rule, according to a government proposal, be able to have a social state at all, or would that simply mean her certain death? At the same time, it should also be asked what would the 750-millionth reduction in public spending in these good years mean for GDP growth. How many jobs would this have destroyed? In 2002, Slovenia's GDP in euros amounted to €23 billion. The crisis has now shown that for every euro taken by the state from public spending, GDP has fallen on average by 1.7 euros. If we now recalculate what this means to reduce spending, 750 million euros, that would mean that in 2002 we would have as much as 5.6% lower GDP. These numbers are clear and I think they're eloquent enough. I simply don't see how fiscal rule could keep the social state and economic growth alive in good times if, for example, who in 1993 or 2000 imposed the fiscal rule that we have on the table today. And this is not an abstract question, this is a very concrete question as to whether the law of the fiscal rule means that in the future we can forget about economic recovery, development and the social state. I'm not a macro-economyist, I may be wrong, but these are the Ministry's numbers and, as always, the burden of proof is on the proposer's side. Let me finish. Since in the United Left we do not want to become gravediggers of the Slovenian social state and economy, of course we will not support the law. For the last time, however, we urge the government to delete it from the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The constitutional amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was voted on 23 May 2013, by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, after which the fiscal rule was written into the Constitution. This constitutional provision commits each government to the medium-term balance of revenue and expenditure of the state budget without any debt. Article 148 of the Constitution refers to the adoption of an implementing law in the form of a fiscal rule law. The adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act requires a two-thirds majority of all members of the National Assembly, i.e. 60 votes cast, and therefore a broader political consensus is needed to adopt this law. I hope the current coalition is aware of this fact. Let me remind you. On 2 March 2012, the leaders of the 25 Member States of the European Union signed the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union between the 25 Member States of the European Union or, in short, the Treaty on the Fiscal Pact, which was also ratified by the Slovenian National Assembly. The aim of the Treaty is to strengthen the economic pillar of the Economic and Monetary Union with a set of rules to strengthen budgetary discipline through fiscal consolidation, strengthening economic policy coordination and improving the governance of the euro area, while at the same time supporting the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. The Treaty entered into force on 1 January 2013. However, the basis of the contract is a fiscal or gold rule which provides that budgets must be balanced or in surplus. This means that the structural deficit, which is a deficit which does not take account of the economic cycle, i.e. the conjuncture and recession, must not exceed 0,5 % of gross domestic product at annual level. The Contracting Parties shall transpose the Golden Rule into national legislation no later than one year after the entry into force of the Treaty, by binding and standing provisions, with constitutional provisions desirable. On the one hand, colleagues and colleagues, it seems unlikely that during the third millennium after Christ we are dealing with the issue of financial discipline or fiscal rule, when they knew and practiced the Pharaohs three thousand years before Christ. On the other hand, this points to the importance and urgency of taking into account financial discipline in household and even more in state finances. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats claim that entrepreneurship and austerity are two prerequisites for the development of society. It follows from this that we have conservative positions and conservative requirements towards state finances. We have repeatedly stressed how decisive it is to act in times of economic growth. The crisis cannot be solved when they occur, but it can be solved before they happen, especially by good stock preparation in the time of so - called fat cows. For thousands of years, this Bible teaching has pointed to a wise course that in the best of years is not wise to spend everything but is essential for bad times. Thus says the first book of Moses: "Let Pharaoh now take care of the wise and wise man, and set him over the land of Egypt. He shall set up stewards in the land, that in the seven years of plenty they may gather a fifth in the land of Egypt. Let them gather all the food of these good years that come, and bring the grain under Pharaoh's authority as food in the cities, and store it. This food will be a stock for the land for seven years of famine when it reigns in the land of Egypt. Thus the land will not perish because of hunger." End of quote. For a long-term existence of society, it is therefore necessary to ensure the restrictive nature of the provisions of the fiscal rule law during economic growth. Unfortunately, however, the law, as proposed, is not sufficiently restrictive in our view. We can agree to the legal provisions that give the Minister of Finance or Government the desired flexibility at the time of the recession. But at the time of growth, we do not need this flexibility during the conjuncture – on the contrary! At that time, there is still a need for fiscal restrictiveness. We, the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats want clear provisions in the fiscal rule law that would prevent the government or every time the ruling coalition from trying to finance people like matters. During the period of fat cows, the fiscal rule law requires each government to have a commitment after the maximum length of the country, otherwise, in the years of recession, the State will be strangled and can be brought to the brink of bankruptcy. We are concerned about the long-term fate of Slovenia, so we want to get an adequate guarantee for the extension of the country in the coming konjunkture. Restricting public spending during the period of the transition would also prevent the risk of structural deficits. At a time of great prosperity, everything happens too often to share political candy, especially before elections that society is unable to pay in the long run. Unfortunately, this inability to pay only appears in recession. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, we propose to bring back the so-called Swiss formula to the part governing the regulation of the state in the konjunkture. For the matter is tested and works well. In the years 2005 to 2010, Switzerland was able to expand from 130 billion to 111 billion Swiss francs. This is from around 53% of GDP to 40% of GDP. And even when we coordinated the previous government fiscal law, none of the political parties opposed the Swiss formula. We are, however, not least bound by the European directives, to the numerical fiscal rules set out by the exact formulas. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, over the last six years, we have further indebteded our country to over €20 billion, €20 000 million. Public debt is now reaching 80% of GDP, with public debt reaching 22% of GDP by the end of 2008. It is not only the height of public debt that is worrying, but the trend of increasing the height of public debt itself. What is the objective, in fact, of writing down the fiscal rule into the Constitution and adopting the proposed implementing law on the adopted fiscal rule? The objective is clear: to tackle the country's indebtedness and structurally balance public finances, which leads to the conclusion that Slovenian economic policy has been exclusively and exclusively foreign debt borrowing policy in recent years. There have been no structural reforms, nor are they predicted by the current government. And what's wrong with being in debt, some people will ask. Certainly the fact that debts have to be repaid; and not just that. Interest should also be paid for the leased debts. Interest now stands at around EUR 1.2 billion. This is, of course, the situation now, and we are still far from a balanced budget. So we are likely to continue to be in charge of covering our current needs. Such a scenario means less and less money for public services, less money for education, less and less money for health care, means a worse life for citizens and lowering their standards. Such a scenario means that we are turning deeper and deeper into the spiral of indebtedness. At the end of the spiral, we know and know – Greece. Is that really what we want? Certainly not us Christian Democrats. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the country's indebtedness is in fact and as soon as possible over and we want to help with this sincerely and constructively. While measures to achieve this goal may be painful, they are urgent and will lead a better life for all of us in the long term. Any delay with this cut means only that the necessary cuts will be greater and more painful. Is the government's proposal for a fiscal rule law that we are considering today really the sure path that leads us out of debt? In our opinion and in the belief of the financial and economic experts with whom we have consulted, the content, as presented to the National Assembly, unfortunately, does not. But there may be improvements, and we want to help constructively. The bill is very loose, a number of areas leave to the discretion of each government, and it should be to determine the existence of exceptional circumstances when a temporary derogation from the fiscal rule is allowed, all the way to the measures necessary to restore the public financial balance. We ask ourselves, can we really extend the length of the additional debt for a few years? Is the law without a binding numerical formula for the calculation of the maximum amount of expenditure in the preparation of the annual budget any real binding restriction for each government? We know the interpretations of the laws of Slovenian lawyers, but the formula is more exact. The next question that we have asked ourselves by Christian Democrats in addressing this law remains open, however, whether the attached content of the bill is a suitable basis for initiating the legislative process and could be further corrected, supplemented and improved in the process. Let me first remind you that the Members of New Slovenia voted in favour of amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia because, among other things, we want to stop the return to socialism because we do not want the current parents – as I once did – to smuggle oranges from Radkensburg for their children. We do not want any director of computer science like I used to take two years for the import authorisation of the computer system. Plato once said that everything revolves in constant cycles. This can also mean this: there is a time of fat cows and it is a time of dry cows; now it is a time of dry cows. Euroscepticism will not help us to the well-being of citizens and citizens. We need consolidation of public finances, but first we need consolidation of the coalition majority, so far the opinions expressed are too silent in our opinion. We also understand that the implementation of the fiscal rule guarantees the existence of a social state. And the Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will continue to closely follow today's debate on this bill, both the arguments of the coalition and the opposition Members. Of course, we will listen carefully to the comments and explain to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble. We will form our position on this bill according to the content of the debate and explain it clearly before this Friday's vote on the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u13	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u14	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen! There has been a lot of talk in the consolidation of public finances lately, a lot has been written, but something has also been done in this regard over the past two years. The fact that this is an important law also shows that the adoption of this law requires a two-thirds majority. I can say that since the constitutional audit procedure for the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution, i.e. since 2012, we have advocated the view that consolidation of public finances should be gradual; everything else would be a disaster for the country and our people. When we talk about consolidation of public finances, we are talking about the need to bring our common public spending into the framework that we can afford in the long run, but of course there are several factors that need to be taken into account. Thus, for example, the public financial policy pursued by the State must be sustainable. This, of course, applies both to the time of economic prosperity and to the time of crisis. Public financial policy in tight economic conditions must by no means have an additional negative impact on economic growth and employment. People rightly expect assistance from the country in times of crisis. In the most difficult times, the country has to help people, and on the contrary, in times of good economic conditions, the country must not spend too much. While public finances are good, which is logically due to a good economic situation, the state must pursue a sustainable public financial policy and in these good times prepare supplies for bad times. Slovenia had record high economic growth in 2006 – and in particular in 2007, partly in 2008. Nevertheless, we came into the crisis that followed, completely unprepared, so the shock was so great. History teaches us that we will always have good and bad or less good times, so it is important that we be prepared to do so. Slovenia and our citizens have felt the crisis far more than most European citizens, and still less than in those countries where they have not been able to solve the problems themselves and have had to ask for help. It also seems important to me to stress today when we talk about the fiscal rule, how important it is that we continue to decide for ourselves how and in what timeframes we will solve our problems. Two years ago, it wasn't so self-evident. It is true that today we are recording the practically highest economic growth in the European Union, and unemployment is falling relatively rapidly. The cost of our debt is record-breaking. Many times I hear comments that all of this has happened on its own, and it is far from that. A lot of hard work and thoughtful action was needed for us to be where we are today. In short, it did not happen on its own, but I am aware that if the state went bankrupt, we were not far from doing so, and of course the former government would be responsible — this would not have happened on its own. Two years ago, a large majority of financial analysts and perhaps politicians expected the Slovenian route to be similar to Cyprus or Greece, which means that someone else would decide on the way and speed of our consolidation of public finances. And the very way and speed of consolidation is crucial for the Alliance to decide on support for the fiscal rule law. We have never, and we do not agree to, a headlong rush in consolidating public finances and thus destroying the social state. The consolidation stage must ensure that social, public health, public education and the functioning of the wider public sector are not without a head-on intervention and there must also be no additional negative consequences for the economy and employment. Probably a lot of people wonder if that's even possible. It certainly is! Our goal must be a sustainable social state. We need to show people clearly what our goal is and why gradual consolidation is needed and good for them as well. In the Alliance, we are convinced that what is good for the country must be and is good for the Alliance, so we have announced support for the fiscal rule law. If further changes in the law are needed to support the other parties, of course we are willing to listen, and we will not support any law that requires faster consolidation at the expense of the social state. As is known, coordination has also taken place at the beginning of 2014 between representatives of parliamentary parties and the Ministry of Finance in connection with the drafting of the Fiscal Rule Act. The text, which in many ways is the same as today's proposal, has been aligned, but also in many ways completely different. If we ask ourselves what the adoption of this law actually means for the state's public financial policy, then I can answer that, in fact, nothing new, which is not already bound by the fiscal pact and certain things within the framework of the so-called corrective mechanisms that we are obliged to take into account in the preparation of our budgets. However, if we ask ourselves what the adoption of this law means for the credibility of Slovenia and the credibility of Slovenia in international financial markets, the answer is significantly different. The adoption of the fiscal rule law will give a clear signal to the international markets that we are serious and also sufficiently united in Slovenia when we are talking about consolidating public finances. In the end, if I take it from you. In the Alliance, we are advocates of gradual financial consolidation, but not at all costs. Not at the price of a social state, not at the cost of employment or at the cost of economic recovery. We believe that gradual consolidation is the only right path that will lead us to a stable, healthy public financial environment within a reasonable time. This was also our starting point when we started talking to the government about supporting the law. The calculations presented by the Ministry show that the implementation of the proposed fiscal rule now ensures this: it ensures the gradual consolidation of public finances. The Ministry has also provided us with a proposal for amendments that will or should be included in the bill below. These envisaged changes are also acceptable to the Alliance and we have decided to support the consideration of the law in this stage in the Alliance's Group. Of course, our support is not unconditional. As I have already mentioned, we support the text before us today. But there is something else, I can say, even more technical questions about the implementation of this law. I believe that we will be able to resolve these issues within the framework of the procedure. We will also examine all possible new changes further and decide on the basis of new facts. In the Alliance, we are aware of our responsibilities, we are aware of the importance of this law and, as I have already mentioned, what is good for the country and must also be good for the Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u15	The text is by the Italian and Hungarian national groups, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! By amending Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by which we laid down the basis for responsible or more responsible treatment of public money in accordance with the Stability Pact, we have also undertaken to regulate the specific implementing provisions of the so-called fiscal rule in law. Since the beginning of the constitutional change process, we have identified ourselves responsiblely, in the spirit of European principles and rational treatment of public funds, as we have also confirmed in our decision-making on this important issue. We intend to do so in this decision on the proposal for a fiscal rule law or its first reading. We are aware that achieving the main objectives of the law, based on the principles of the fiscal rule, is medium-term balance and caution in planning and assessing the scope of public finances and expenditure, as well as ensuring independent control in rather difficult circumstances, a very difficult task. The search for a solution offers a number of possible options, which is also confirmed by the fact that in different countries we face quite different solutions. In recent weeks, we have been thoroughly familiar with various possible versions of the marriage text. We note that any variant can have its advantages and disadvantages. With regard to the current government proposal, we were most interested in whether the proposed provisions were actually sufficient in terms of ensuring long-term sustainable public finances. The drafters of the law confirmed, with some relevant arguments, that according to Slovenian specifications, especially if we are based on the fact that we belong in a circle of countries with a common European currency, the proposed word is an acceptable option. The proposed provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act are also becoming clearer together with the reading of the so-called amendments already mentioned, which, according to our information, also build up the current text qualitatively on the basis of the relevant European institutions or their opinions. We are aware that, in view of the adverse financial trends in recent years, in particular the first steps towards a balanced budget will be very difficult and difficult to implement, because they also prejudge interventions into important systems such as social, health, education and the rest of the public sphere. It is therefore clear that the adoption of the fiscal rule law, which we are very late with, is a necessary step that we must take, but this also requires a necessary approach to other structural reforms without which the actual long-term impact of the fiscal rule cannot be. In planning and implementing reforms, of course, it must inform the principle of fairness and transparency, but there must be no question as to whether the future of the country can be based solely on debt. Thus, when adopting this law, no one should have a fig tree in his pocket, for we are primarily deceiving ourselves by such an approach. So, as I have already indicated, my colleague Battelli and I will support the bill in this first reading, but we also hope that the text will be upgraded in the coming days to truly reach the broadest possible consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u17	The SMC Group, Mrs Urska Ban, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u18	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the SMC Group on the fiscal rule law that we are considering today. If I go from the beginning. In 1997, the EU Member States adopted a Stability and Growth Pact containing common guidelines for economic development within the EU. Ensuring a sustainable public financial policy is part of this pact, more specifically, the basis of the fiscal pact is a golden rule by which the budgets of the signatory countries must be balanced or in surplus. The Stability and Growth Pact was subsequently complemented and upgraded by EU Member States. In 2012, however, these efforts led to the preparation and validation of the fiscal pact as a specific international treaty governing the fundamental issue of the implementation of public financial policies in EU Member States, especially those which have decided to join the monetary union. Slovenia is a signatory to this fiscal pact. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 3, this Covenant obliges a State Party to include in its legislation within one year of the entry into force of this Treaty appropriate fiscal rules for strengthening fiscal discipline. In 2013, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This amendment lays down the fundamental principle of the State’s public financial policy and lays down that the law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members, lays down the modalities and timeframe for the implementation of the principle of medium-term balance of the State’s budgets, the criterion for determining exceptional circumstances and the manner in which they take place. This was the first step, but not a sufficient measure to stabilise the economic situation in Slovenia in the medium term. With this amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution, we have adapted our legal order in Slovenia to the requirements of the European Fiscal Pact. But this is just a legal framework and the beginning of a new path. It will have to be followed by other laws, reform economic policy, social agreement and other measures that would bring us more productive investment in economic conversion. Therefore, we do not see this rule as a magical solution, but we consider that it is an important instrument for urgently balancing public finances. While Slovenia has already had the rule of balanced public finances enshrined in legislation, specifically in the Public Finance Act, we unfortunately did not respect it. Obviously we need more than just a law to really stick to the adopted one, which is what we have done by writing into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act. However, the first step is certainly the adoption of the proposed fiscal rule law today. The adoption of the fiscal rule law on the basis of a change of constitution will certainly represent progress in the management of fiscal policy, as discretionary fiscal policy has led to unsustainable budgetary deficits. Fiscal policy based on fiscal rules is expected to lead to faster consolidation of public debt, long-term sustainability of public finances and less pro-cyclical fiscal policy due to greater transparency and credibility. The very concept of fiscal rule must also take into account the important fact that Slovenia is a Member State of the European Union that uses the common currency and does not have the option of applying monetary policy and therefore the European Union's public financial rules allow it to be more flexible in the application of fiscal policy. By incorporating Slovenia into the monetary union under the changed macroeconomic conditions, we do not have a foreign exchange rate which, at least to some extent, could correct the weaknesses of the remaining policies or, in other words, the weaknesses of the remaining policies have become relatively more expensive for the country and these have not been small in fiscal policy. Thus, under the conditions of high economic growth for Slovenia in the years leading up to the crisis, Slovenia had only a balanced public financial position, although it should have a significant surplus. At the time of the crisis itself, however, the government was significantly behind with the necessary fiscal consolidation. Weaknesses have also been seen in structural policies, which have been delayed too long by the adoption of necessary structural reforms, which over time has also been reflected in the loss of international competitiveness. As stated, the purpose of the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was to ensure the long-term sustainability of the public financial policy, taking into account international obligations undertaken. Accordingly, the solutions to the fiscal rule implementing law must be as much in line as possible with the provisions of the International Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in Economic and Monetary Policy. It is also important that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should already adopt, in accordance with EU guidelines, solutions that provide macroeconomic stability and balance in the medium term. The fiscal rule can be defined more simply as a permanent limitation on the management of fiscal policy, as expressed by the fiscal spending indicator. The fiscal rule, which is also the basis of the fiscal pact, obliges the signatory State not to spend more than it creates. In other words, the national budget of the country must be balanced or show surplus. According to the fiscal pact, the objective will be to achieve what is achieved if the country's annual structural government deficit, i.e. a deficit which does not take account of either the conjuncture or recession, does not exceed the limit of 0,5 % of the gross social product. If the public debt is significantly lower than the reference value of 60 % of the gross social product, the deficit limit may be set at one percentage of the gross social product. The key criterion for setting a minimum value at the level of the European Union is the issues of exceeding the threshold for a government deficit of 3% of GDP and the long-term sustainability of public finances, which depends mainly on the level of debt, the state sector and the costs of potential liabilities that could have a strong impact on public spending in the future. This is why the European Commission has set a medium-term objective for Slovenia of a levelled structural balance. It is true that the current medium-term objective set by the European Commission is at the level of structural balance, but this can be reduced when Slovenia implements structural measures that will improve the long-term sustainability of public finances and raise potential economic growth. The derogation from the medium-term objective is only in exceptional economic circumstances, for example during a period of deep economic crisis or as provided by law. Article 3 of the proposed law defines the fiscal rule in accordance with the principle of medium-term balance, which follows the second paragraph of Article 148 of the amended Constitution of Slovenia. It is considered that the revenue and expenditure of the State’s budgets are balanced in the medium term without debt if the structural balance of the State’s sector in a given year is not lower than the medium-term fiscal objective, taking into account the value set out in the international treaty governing stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union as the minimum value of the medium-term fiscal objective. This paragraph lays down a fiscal rule. This binds the sector as a whole and does not require the budget or financial plan of each individual institutional unit of the sector to be balanced in the medium term. The starting point is that the structural balance of the sector should be higher or at least equal to the medium-term fiscal objective in a given year. The lowest allowable value of the medium-term fiscal objective is a structural deficit of 0.5% of GDP, as currently defined by the International Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management. The country's medium-term fiscal objective for the sector as a whole, taking into account its international obligations under the rules and acts of the European Union, is determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The medium-term fiscal objective, set out in the range between the structural deficit of 0.5 % of GDP and the unlimited structural surplus, means that a minimum structural deficit, but not more than 0.5 % of GDP, may occur within the medium-term period of a given year, and this is consistent with the provisions of the Constitution to ensure that current public spending does not generate debt. The point is that in good economic times we can create higher public financial savings. In the SMC Group, we understand that the definition of the principle of balance is more appropriate than the recording of numerical rules, as this approach would increase the risk of the need for multiple changes in law when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sets new values of the medium-term fiscal objective in view of the changed circumstances or the reference value of the medium-term fiscal objective on the basis of European calculations that usually change every three years. The draft law also operationalises the fiscal rule referred to in the first paragraph with the second paragraph of Article 3, since the structural balance is a category dependent on current economic developments. In order to ensure predictability in budgetary planning, on the basis of a specific medium-term fiscal objective and given the expected volume of sector revenues, the State shall determine the maximum possible volume of expenditure of the State sector. It follows from this that the setting of numerical fiscal policy objectives can prove pro-cyclical and counter-productive. This law does not provide for this, but a medium-term anchor of public financial stability is introduced, which, in addition to firm debt-restricting commitments, allows for greater flexibility in recession. The mechanism for achieving this flexibility with solid medium-term foundations is a fiscal rule. As has already been pointed out, the essence of the fiscal rule is that in recessions it allows increased spending of the country and the creation of surpluses in good times. In the SMC Group, we believe that, on the basis of the proposed government law, it allows certain flexibility for governments in their functioning and budgeting and gives more room to manage countercyclical economic policy. However, we are aware, as I have already mentioned, that fiscal rules are not enough for successful fiscal consolidation in Slovenia without adequate structural reforms. The proposal for this Act also provides for a transitional period, which we understand by addressing the structural deficit by 2019. This is how Article 15 of this Law is written. Slovenia will therefore have to minimise the structural deficit of 0.5% of GDP. Current forecasts show that the economy will be collected somewhere by 2019. The year 2019 is estimated to be the year in which the structural deficit and the actual deficit, which will be at least offset or in surplus, will be offset. This will, of course, be the case if exceptional circumstances do not arise. If they were to reduce deficits faster than this law and the Stability Pact foresees, they would result in economic damage, more unemployment, a deterioration in the situation of vulnerable groups such as pensioners, recipients of social transfers, young people and others. This would happen, for example, on the basis of the use of the Swiss formula. The law also lays down the principle of caution in the planning of revenue and expenditure, which we welcome in the SMC Group because we are aware of the difficulties in forecasting revenue. In fact, it will be necessary to adjust the budget expenditure of the sector to changes in income at annual level. The National Assembly will set the target balance and the ceiling for expenditure. The combination of both makes more sense because it is easier to follow the objective of the actual balance. In the SMC Group of Members, we have asked the other coalition partners to address this law in general in order to clearly confront different opinions and find a solution together that will enable a sustainable fiscal policy that will not harm the population or the economy. Your Honor! The SMC Group will support or assess the proposed law at first reading that this proposal is suitable for further consideration. If I take it back again, why can I be particularly positive about the five key messages of the proposed law. Firstly, the fiscal rule provides at least a balanced balance of the state sector in the medium term without creating debts for current public spending. Another time. The rule allows the conduct of anti-cyclical fiscal policy in bad times to the limit permitted by the Treaty on Stability, Management and Coordination in the Economic and Monetary Union, and a more ambitious anti-cyclical fiscal policy in good times. In this way, more fiscal reserves can be created. Third time. Due to its asymmetry, the rule allows the limited use of fiscal policy to promote the economy in bad times, when the impact of fiscal policy on economic activity is stronger, and more restrictive public finances in good times when this effect is smaller. Fourth time. The rule reduces the risk of procyclicality in fiscal policy planning, which may arise due to methodological problems in determining the current position of the economy in the business cycle. Fifth. The rule reduces the risk of significant volatility in fiscal policy planning due to uncertainty due to methodological problems in determining the current position of the economy after the business cycle. Provision of manoeuvring space to a structural deficit of 0.5% of GDP per year. This is the justification of the SMC Group, why this law, as has already been said, will be supported at this stage of the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First, Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u20	Your Honor! I may repeat some of the things you've already said, but in the context of this introductory presentation, please don't mind me. The proposal for a fiscal rule law before you today sets out in more detail the way and time frame for implementing the principle of medium-term balance set out in Article 148 of the Constitution. The proposal is also based on European rules, as we have already heard, which in themselves constitute a strict framework for the management of fiscal policy and for which, by ratifying the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, the so-called fiscal pact, we have also committed ourselves to bringing them into the Slovenian legal order. The proposed fiscal rule therefore takes into account the relevant framework of the constitutional provision and international commitments. The rule of state without its own monetary policy allows a relatively small margin of manoeuvre to respond to negative shocks in economic activities and to implement a more intensive anti-cyclical fiscal policy in good times. The possibility of regulating economic activity by means of a fiscal policy instrument is particularly important for countries without their own monetary policy, as is the case with Slovenia. Moreover, studies show that fiscal policy has a greater impact on the economy in bad times than in good times, which means that a different response to economic policy is needed depending on the economic cycle. This is a key conceptual difference that made it impossible for us to support the proposal for a law that was discussed in the National Assembly in December and left fiscal policy-setting to a symmetrical mathematical formula. This formula did not recognise this asymmetric impact of fiscal policy on the economy. In addition, due to methodological difficulties in determining the economic situation, the so-called potential growth within the economic cycle, pointed out by many economists, the formula posed a risk to the management of not anti-cyclical but pro-cyclical fiscal policies, which would reinforce economic shock instead of mitigating it. In addition, the formula used has more limited the response to poor economic conditions than European rules limit or set. However, I would like once again to stress, as the Prime Minister has already done, that the proposed rule is very strict, irrespective of the fact that it allows us a certain or extremely limited flexibility to manage fiscal policy of dependence on the economic cycle. This calls for a structural balance of public finances in the medium term. In this regard, we have seen in the December debate that the Government's proposal for a law is not in line with a constitutional provision that speaks of medium-term balance without debt. That's not true. In this proposal before you, this is respected. At this point, I would like to reject another thesis that has appeared several times in the last debate, which is the issue of State debt. Both the bill before you, as well as the bill under discussion last month, allow for public financial deficits and thus debt at the time of the recession, as well as public financial surpluses and debt repayments during the period of the transition. In the medium term, however, no additional debt is created in line with the fiscal rule for current public spending. It's not the country that's in debt, it's spending as much as it does. Exceptions are exceptional and unique events of a larger scale, such as the rehabilitation of the banking system, and there may also be natural disasters, which will still be possible. Allow me now to present briefly the content of the bill. The key objective of the proposed law is to ensure a long-term sustainable public finance policy which is a key element of macroeconomic stability and sustainable and sustainable economic development. The proposed law also seeks to ensure regular monitoring of public finances, which is why, by means of the proposed Act, the Fiscal Council, as an independent and independent state authority, is empowered to independently assess the sustainability of public finances, to assess compliance with the principle of medium-term balance and to give preliminary opinions on key documents relating to fiscal policy prepared by the Government. In the introductory provisions, the draft law thus defines the content of the law and the meaning of the individual terms. And this importance of individual expressions is very important. Article 3 defines the fiscal rule. This sets out how to ensure medium-term balance between the revenue and expenditure of the state's budgets without debt achieved by adjusting the level of expenditure of the sector to the economic power of the State. Article 4 sets out the precautionary principle for the planning of revenue and expenditure. Article 5 of the bill provides how the surplus of expenditure generated by an institutional unit can be spent. These surpluses cannot be used for current consumption but are collected in specific funds and the funds collected can only be used to repay the principals of the debt of these units. If an institutional unit does not have a debt, it may spend surpluses on expenditure to finance the deficit during periods of sub-potential gross domestic product growth, to finance the deficit arising from exceptional circumstances and to finance investments in the coming years. Article 6 provides the basic solutions for the budget planning of the state sector. The budgetary planning process itself introduces a stability programme and formalises certain decisions or commitments made by the State through an annual stability programme. The power to determine the target balance and the maximum possible amount of sector expenditure shall be conferred on the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10 contain key provisions concerning the establishment, powers and functioning of the Fiscal Council. Additional powers may be conferred on the Fiscal Council by other national rules. Article 11 sets out the so-called automatic correction mechanism in the event of a derogation from the fiscal rule, which includes the possibility of suspending the implementation of the budget and preparing measures to ensure that the principle of medium-term balance is respected again. Article 12 covers provisions on exceptional circumstances which may lead to a medium-term imbalance between the revenue and expenditure of the State sector. The exceptional circumstances of which are summarised by the solutions set out in the Stability and Growth Pact. The procedure and competence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Fiscal Council to determine the existence of exceptional circumstances are also determined. The determination of exceptional circumstances is important in order to determine the permissible extent of the derogation from the principle of medium-term balance of the budgets of the State. The decision on this issue is taken again by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government and according to a previous opinion of the Fiscal Council. In the transitional provisions, the draft law lays down a specific rule on medium-term balance in the period when Slovenia is still gradually approaching the medium-term fiscal objective. This transitional period for the gradual achievement of this medium-term balance is particularly important in terms of maintaining gradual economic recovery. Once again, if I summarise the key elements of the proposed law: establishes the minimum allowed structural balance of the state sector, ensures structural balance in the medium term without indebtedness, defines the situation of exceptional circumstances when a derogation from the rule is allowed, sets a transitional period for the gradual resolution of the structural deficit, provides for the establishment of the Fiscal Council as an independent and independent state authority, limits the risk of procyclical fiscal policy action, as it allows a manoeuvre space around the structural balance. This allows a limited yet countercyclical response to fiscal policy in bad times and stronger, i.e. asymmetric, countercyclical response in good times, thus facilitating the management of economic activity and consequently increasing human well-being. Your Honor! Slovenia is the only country that has not yet fully transposed the rules of law. This is in terms of the assessment of how Slovenia is creditable, poor and therefore we also pay the price: higher interest, poor business conditions and so on. This is one aspect of today's debate. At least, if not even more important, there is another aspect. As I have already said, the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Pact are very strict and our constitution further sharpens them. The debate on the meaning of such rigour is a lively one, but it is a question of how it affects well-being. Therefore, the key question is how to set a fiscal rule in a way that will have the least or most positive impact on economic growth and employment in both the transition period and the normal medium-term situation. The simulations we have made clearly show that even greater tightening, as set out in European rules and the Constitution, brings lower economic growth and employment. For example, if we were to achieve a structural budget adjustment in the transitional period by reducing public financial expenditure in one year – that is to say, this structural deficit, which we have at about 2.2% of gross domestic product. This would reduce gross domestic product by 6.3% points over a four-year period if we tried to eliminate this in one year by reducing expenditure. However, if the settlement were to be extended to four years and followed by what is possible and what is permissible by European rules, the reduction by 0.5% of the structural deficit per year is only 2.7%. That is to say, we would have lost almost 4% of gross domestic product here if we had not followed what is also enshrined in the bill. The same applies to the possibility of conducting a countercyclical fiscal policy. More than this option, more than we have the opportunity to neutralize the bad situation and the good situation, longer-term economic growth and employment will be higher. In this proposal, we have followed this knowledge consistently. The European rules and constitutions that are passed into this law alone guarantee that Slovenia's indebtedness will be reduced. With the greatest possible economic growth and deleveraging, we will also provide better prospects for financing a rapid increase in expenditure, for ageing the population, for financing the social state and at the same time reduce the commitments we commit to young people. I therefore hope that, for its adoption, we will be able to achieve the broadest possible political consensus on this fiscal rule, with the appropriate upgrade of the proposal before you. So many introductorys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr. Uroš Prikl, Desus, has the floor to prepare Dr. Franc Križanič, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I also welcome visitors who look at us and listen. Much has been said today about the history of this fiscal rule or an infringement into the constitution — it has had a beard for quite a long time. At this point, I wouldn't discuss whether it made sense whether it was smart or whether it made sense to go back. The fact is, there's a fiscal rule here and now ahead of us. I also think that it is wrong to turn to the fiscal rule or bill proposed by the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party last month, but let us focus and make every effort to bring the existing bill to life. I think that's going to be necessary. Indeed, a two-thirds majority is needed, and I think that, by the President of the Government, quite a few efforts have already been made by the Finance Minister to bring this to the bottom and that this fiscal rule has also come to life in practice. Let's think about it. Let's put public finances at home. Let us consider how we treat our family budget at home, and let us also deal with public finances in a similar way. We all know that when we don't have financial resources, we're just saving up, we're just a little tightening the belts, and that's a very foreign term. But when, of course, there is a little more money that I will not say in abundance, it is good and wise and sensible to make some supplies for those worse times — a colleague mentioned the dry cows earlier — when we actually need this money. All that I have said very simplisticly now also contains the proposal for a bill on the fiscal rule ahead of us. It has been said several times, and I myself mentioned in the position of the Group of Members that in this proposed law there is more flexibility in fiscal policy and more room for countercyclical economic policy measures. I'm sure he does. This is also why in the Desus Group we will personally support this law. The fact is, of course, that we would like those derogations mentioned in the law, but just to mention, it is not difficult and will not be necessary for a long time what the reasons for the derogations are: a serious economic downturn – we know what this means – and unusual events that the countries have no influence on and affect the financial situation in the country. To be honest, I would like another social moment here, another third point, a third indent, which would say that there are possible derogations even at a time when the social situation is significantly deteriorating to the larger or the largest part of the population, but the target groups that are most vulnerable do not meet condition one or two. Here it is necessary, I think, a great deal of flexibility, sensitivity, tenderness, but not by consolidating public finances – I believe that in the long term and in the medium term – we do have short-term negative effects on pensioners, on the socially disadvantaged, on youth, on children, etc. By the way, the fiscal rule must not and will not become a gravedigger of the social state, should not affect the deterioration of the social situation of pensioners. By the way, this year, of course, we rightly expect the valorisation of pensions, taking into account or hoping that the calculated growth of gross social product for last year will be more than 2,5 %, and this is a fact that we understand at least this in Desus. At the same time, we must not make the material situation of children, those who are unemployed, and those who are already living on the edge of the social minimum here difficult. Let me recap. Such a law, which is before us, is the conclusion of one, more than two years of the ongoing process from the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution to the evaluation or the application of the rules itself, which I am sure will mean a relatively gradual, gradual way of consolidating public finances in the medium term, while at the same time not making the material situation of those who are most vulnerable and who are already on the verge of social existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u23	The word is from Dr. Franc Križanič, SD. Prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear High Council! The talk was already about the oldest known economic cycle, quoted by Moses in his books, and we are talking about Joseph’s parable. Czech economist Tomás Sedláček – I hope I said it right – wrote the remarkable book The Economy of Good and Evil, where he processes this occasion and this case, which actually happened. Do you know how it ended? It ended with Egypt actually leading a successful countercyclical policy and settling with its neighbours. Of course, any similarity with events in the present is merely a coincidence. Then there was talk of the German deficit, of course it is accumulated; it is accumulated in public debt and the Germans do not meet the Maastricht criterion by the share of public debt in GDP. It's even worse with Austria. This is even worse than we are, but I don't think anyone is forcing them to sell any strategic companies to their competitors. As far as fiscal rules are concerned, it must be said that this is a typical institute, an instrument of Kenyan economic policy. It falls into the co-ordinates in which the Kenyans are thinking; both the ancient Kenyans, who are looking only at the macro-economic level, as well as the neo-Kenexians, who also devote themselves to the level of operation of the company or households. It is assumed that the country must pursue an expansionary fiscal policy during the recession. This is partly the case in itself because of the increase in social assistance, unemployment insurance and, in part, the state has to make artificial efforts to increase expenditure. And that's what we call an expansionary fiscal policy. It is also known in textbooks that this policy is important in particular during the recession when monetary policy is dependent or not. We see the problems today with the ECB's monetary policy during the slow growth period in the euro group. During the post-conjuction period, the surplus is increasing, it must occur and allow, it must depreciate the deficit during the recession. Of course, this is happening with GDP growth and this is calculated that the surplus, at least as a percentage of GDP, does not need to be as large as the deficit before. These calculations would indicate that if they were made for 2007 and 2008 and if they did not have that unfortunate tax reform in 2007, they should have an estimated billion surplus each year at a time when the economy overheated, and would have significantly easier to come into a crisis with a substantially more balanced public financial balance. All the time or at that time, we were even a country that already had a deficit in foreign trade. Then we saved it, now we're a country that does more than sings or a national economy that does more than sings. In this respect, we are sovereign in any case, and our representatives should also act this way. It is important, at the post-industrial level of development, that – and this is what we have added to this fiscal rule law, which we support – balance also arises with a sufficiently high share of government revenue and expenditure in gross domestic product. The post-industrial economy is based on a successful quarterly sector. Competitiveness, the possibility of prosperity, production enables human capital, which depends on education, health, science, social insurance and other insurance and also on safety. Security here is not the last, and safety is extremely important. If this is not financed, there are, of course, serious disturbances in social reproduction. A fiscal rule that would not take this into account can actually cause such a disturbance in social reproduction. That's what critics fear. They fear, however, and make proposals in a completely wrong way so that they simply do not take care of the structurally compensated deficit. Even if it were not in the constitution, it has already been said, it is important to be careful that such a structural deficit does not arise and that the debt does not accumulate. We have created this structural deficit through fiscal reforms in 2007 and 2012, together at around 3% of GDP, with a rise in value added tax, value added tax rates and excise duties, we have depreciated it to some extent, not entirely, as the Minister of Finance said. And there's some work to be done here. I think that even on the part of the public financial inflows, not only in terms of spending cuts or excessive pressure on the quarterly sector, but in fact in terms of what we say to the public sector, it ensures competitiveness and exports are directly dependent on it because it depends on the development activities of companies, then we will have serious problems. It is said that it is highly dependent on who and how will lead the economic policy that this fiscal rule will be duly followed, but it is useful and I will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Jerne Vatovac, to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General, Vice-President! We are again before the last act to finally commit ourselves, including by implementing law, to the balance of our public finances. So it is our own commitment to prevent in the future this temptation, which in the past, both at the time of the dry cows and at the time of the so-called fat cows, has somehow smothered us. And most of all, this temptation overtakes us between 2009 and 2011, when Slovenia became enormously indebted. The consequence of not having balanced public finances, not having a fiscal rule, not having an implementing law on fiscal rules, is that today the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of almost 80% of gross domestic product, as a result of the fact that we are paying a billion euros for interest alone. Compare now: we pay a billion EUR 100 million for interest and we pay a billion EUR 400 million for pensions from the state budget. Because we are paying such high interest, and therefore less money for education, it is also less money for social state, thus saying that the introduction of a fiscal rule that the implementing law of fiscal rules can destroy the social state is wrong. In fact, in my firm belief and belief of Christian Democrats, the gold fiscal rule protects rights, protects the social state, sustains it, protects the rights of our children who are in charge of the imbalance of public finances – today every newborn is already in charge of 15,000 euros. This is the policy of imbalance in our public finances. To return to the implementing law itself or to the proposal of the law. Of course, better than nothing, but too little to personally support this proposal of the law further. What's the key problem? The key problem is in the commitment itself, in the formula itself. Mr Minister has just said that the current proposal guarantees that Slovenia will be able to repay it. I don't think so! Indeed, by 2019, because our economic growth will not yet be at this level, it will not be so high, we will certainly have to make an additional commitment. That's a fact. In spite of this, we cannot go. But if we add a commitment, if we add a formula, a formula to an article, then we commit ourselves not to resort to temptations to add debt. You agree to the so-called Swiss formulas yourself. I agree with those who say that the Swiss formula is not suitable for our country, because we do not have our fiscal policy, we do not have our currency. That's right. This is true, it concerns the biggest problem here, but this formula is still tested and this formula is established so for the time of the conjuncture, it is called fat cows, and I was myself part of a political party during the period 2004-2008 when we were in the government and there was also too much candy. That's my personal opinion, too many candy for a conjuncture. We should be able to make sure they fill the bags somehow. But we also shared candy because we didn't have a clear commitment, so we wouldn't share it, so we would also save during the conjuncture. And the Swiss formula also defines that we will save, that we will balance our public finances in times of crisis, in times of dry cows. That's what this is about. That's why I agree to Swiss formulas. However, I am prepared to make some general compromise to just introduce a certain formula to be written in the article, but also to define the time of the conjuncture. Because of this, Your Honor, this time may not reach you at all, a time of conjuncture. Maybe he'll catch up with us. And yet we commit ourselves to it. For the end of the social state. Once again, the social state is not this, ladies and gentlemen, that we owe ourselves excessively at the expense of our future generations, that we pay so much interest on our public debt, that we burden our pensions, that we also burden public education, health care, our children. This is an irresponsible and unwise fiscal policy, which is why we must be advocates of the balance of public finances, which is why I am also a supporter of the Swiss formula or clear commitment, clear formulas in the very article of the law, which will define both the time of the dry cows and the time of the fat cows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Swirl. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u28	Nice greetings to all, to the esteemed assembly of ministers, colleagues and visitors who are still here. So the facts are clear. We are members of the European Union and thus the monetary union. In fact, we need to act on the Stability and Growth Pact guidelines, and as one of the parties to the 2012 fiscal pact, we must also stick to it. Finally, our commitment is also enshrined in the Constitution, so that the implementing act on the fiscal rule must certainly go to the final work, this is adoption. I am certainly in favour of the debate on how and how this fiscal rule should be written down, I agree. However, I do not think that the most stringent rules are prescribed by Europe, how and what, but that we are the only ones who can talk about it. My friend Vrtovec mentioned the Swiss model. I agree, this is one of the options. I believe, however, that the proposal of the Government and the proposal of the Ministry of Finance is closer to our situation and to the economic situation in Slovenia. Why? The Swiss model does not allow for great flexibility and thus maneuverable space, which is one of the essential elements of the Government's proposal. Too quickly reducing the deficit, the aim of which is the Swiss model, would have a major impact in my opinion on the weak growth that is now being detected in our country. Furthermore, the rule allowing minimum deficits in line with European guidelines and ensuring the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy is also important due to these economic cycles. As we know, economic cycles are unpredictable and have different fluctuations. The Swiss model is extremely rigid and does not allow great tolerances, while the government's proposal allows debt to be reduced for some medium term period, which I believe is more appropriate in terms of the situation and the actual possibility of Slovenia and also has a smaller impact on the economy itself. The longer transitional period also facilitates the facilitation of these cycles and thus the resolution of the financial situation itself within the country, not only within the European Union. If I may point out and make one comment as Primorec. I think that the European fiscal pact is an appropriate fiscal framework or mechanism. What do I mean by that? It introduces a medium-term anchor – so I say as Primorec, for public financial stability and thus a firm commitment to limiting debt, while also allowing flexibility in recession. So, in recession, it makes it possible to increase, it's true to spend the country and create surpluses in good times, it's said in a conjuncture. Finally, I would like to say that, in my opinion, this proposal is one of the points in the stabilisation of our finances, so I propose that we accept it, of course we can also amend it, we can also add and withdraw matters, but I think that this is one of the long-term commitments of the Ministry of Finance itself and the government itself, so that we can stabilise our finances and, with clear structural changes, continue to consolidate financial policy and finance itself in Slovenia. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present. It is true, as already stated in the introduction, that we have been discussing this implementing law or the fiscal law for too long. I must express my conviction that if Janez Janša were to be led by the government, the implementing law would be ready, I stress, to be ready by November 2013, as laid down in the constitutional law. Our party also tabled a proposal for a fiscal rule law in December, which was unfortunately rejected. Thus, at the time of the unconstitutional situation, we re-indebted ourselves in February 2014 for 3.5 billion and then in October 2014 for 1 billion. Yes, it is true that for two years we have been talking and listening to discussions on the fiscal rule, on how much the state will be able to repay in bad years, how much this limit is calculated, how long the medium-term period should be, of course, where revenue and expenditure must be equalised and who will finance all of this. I will only stop at these points, namely, in the fiscal world, in control and in exceptional circumstances. The Fiscal Council will oversee compliance with the rules as an independent state authority. In doing so, I have a question about an independent body, but if the members of the Fiscal Council are appointed by a national assembly with a simple majority of all Members. The members of the Fiscal Council shall be appointed by the President of the State, the Government and the Bank of Slovenia. I would expect candidates for members of the Fiscal Council to be voted on by a two-thirds majority as well as by law. Because I think that the two-thirds majority is demanding a broader consensus, i.e. some agreement from the opposition. It really seems to me that the government is going to name the world as it somehow wants it. Compliance with the rule will therefore be supervised by the Fiscal Council as an independent body, but following this proposal the assessment and recommendations of the Fiscal Council will not be binding on the government. If, for example, the fiscal council finds that the budget deviates from the rule, it will inform the government and the national assembly and the public and the government will have to take a position on this assessment and may or may propose measures, it is said that it can, but not morality. It's hard to imagine that the government, in the negative opinion of the fiscal world, will admit and say, "Oops, really, I was wrong." And then she proposed measures by which she would acknowledge her mistake and later remedy it. In the event of non-compliance with the fiscal rule, the government law also does not provide for any sanctions. Let me also touch on circumstances in which medium-term balance can be deviated. Article 12, paragraph 12, states that in the event of an unusual event which cannot be affected and has significant implications for the financial situation of the State. What these extraordinary events are, they're nowhere to be determined. Is this another patch of a bank hole? I don't know, it could be an organization of Olympics. It could be some international folk concert. I don't know. With us, believe me, there could be a lot of unusual events. I am not sure that with such a bill we will balance public finances in a timely manner, that we will not burden taxpayers beyond all possible borders, but also our economy, that we will incur further debt, that we will spend as much as we create, and that spending will be more rational, so as to avoid headless spending in the public sector in particular, as this is typical of this government. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we somehow forget to ask ourselves this question or all too rarely, why we had to put this golden rule into the constitution. Yeah, probably because the country's been spending a lot more recently than it's created. In a few years, I'm afraid the situation won't be resolved. The consequences of excessive spending and debt are already felt by all our citizens. Many people live below the threshold of poverty, desperate, some hungry. And that's what we should be worried about in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Franco Jursha. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u32	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! At the time of the debate on the adoption of Article 168 of the Constitution, in which we wrote the so-called fiscal rule, Desus and the then parliamentary group were united that in Slovenia we must strive not to spend more than we create in the future. This is also the basic guide in each economy or household. Let's call it a fiscal rule or something. If this is the only way we can all allocate our own finances at home, that is to spend less than we create. After all, we do not know what the future will bring us, and we are all trying in some way to provide something for later years, for a better time when we will retire, for our grandchildren and their lives. Yes, even for our children and grandchildren. Sadly, the elderly today maintain their children and their grandchildren with their small, modest pensions and savings. This is not very encouraging and uplifting. Even more sad are the cases where families spend more than they deserve for basic necessities, not because they are wasteful, but because they have such low incomes. And there's a lot of people like that today, too. Let me go back to the proposal for a fiscal rule law. The proposal provides for a way to ensure medium-term balance between the revenue and expenditure of the state's budgets without debt. Unfortunately, all efforts so far to halt the consequences of the global crisis have not yielded the desired results, so in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners we are aware that the fiscal rule law must be adopted as soon as possible. It is true that higher economic growth is forecasting that fewer people are unemployed, but we still need a commitment to budgetary discipline because of ourselves and the relations of other countries, as we will be able to send a clear signal to the international public and financial markets about our efforts to balance public finances. In doing so, I would like to point out that the fiscal rule must in no way have a negative impact on the social field, but especially on the area of as low pensions as our pensioners in Slovenia have. In writing a coalition agreement, Desus insisted that measures to consolidate public finances should not in any way affect the most vulnerable groups of the population, so in Desus we will seek to realize this agreement, but not only by fulfilling the promise, but in order to really protect those affected by the economic crisis, some incompetent economists on the one hand, or their fraud, on the other hand, have fallen into poverty. We will continue to insist in Desus on the establishment of a solid pension system that will already provide the basics of personal and, I stress, the rights of pensioners and each of us. The demographic reserve fund is an institution that, according to our beliefs and beliefs, will also allow many experts to do so. Therefore, it is essential that the fiscal rule does not simply take up a rule, a computer or a command: we must not spend more than we create, but that this rule must be seen in an integrated way, what it means for people and their rights in every field and in every period of their lives. Surely many of you, both opposition and coalition colleagues, feel that this demographic fund is being exposed over and over again. That's right. Because we are aware of their importance and expect to receive a law that will allow its establishment on the parliamentary bench in a short time. This is also our commitment, the commitment of the Prime Minister. I do not want to prejudge, in particular, to tell you clearly that any excuses that the Fund cannot be set up, as outlined, because of the fiscal rule, we will not accept. Avoiding it for such reasons would be unacceptable for us. We believe and trust that this will not happen and that we will soon be able to address such and similar systemic changes that are necessary. The urgency is not only because of the demographic picture, but also because of this, so do I, as well as my fellow Members, that it is necessary for the state property that has been created for many years by pension generations and by the current generations who are still employed. We're all here at the service of the people. The current situation requires us to step together and take measures to address the consequences of the global crisis. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are convinced that by adopting the fiscal rule law we would ensure the stable development of our country and the successful management of possible future crises of a wider scale. I will personally support this proposal at this stage. This does not mean, however, that in the future, under the threat of this rule, I will support such proposals as would be contrary to my belief and the conviction of the party whose programme I support and which will affect the social situation of our people. One more word about the marriage we have ahead of us. In the Desus Group we are pleased that the law is moving away from the so-called Swiss formula, as Slovenia as a member of the euro area no longer has its own monetary policy, and needs more flexibility in managing fiscal policy. In particular, Article 12, which refers to exceptional circumstances that may lead to a medium-term imbalance between the revenue and expenditure of the State sector, is essential. The determination of exceptional circumstances is important, as it provides for the permissible extent of the derogation from the principle of medium-term balance in the budgets of the State. The decision on this issue shall be taken by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government and on the basis of a previous opinion of the Fiscal Council. As I have already mentioned, we will support or personally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Bojani Mursich. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Chimenka ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! The proposal for a fiscal rule law, which we are considering today, should have been adopted a month ago from the entry into force of the constitutional law, i.e. at the end of November 2013. This means that we have been in an unconstitutional position for over a year. It is true that there have also been several proposals on the fiscal rule, but it is necessary to ensure that the budget follows the principle of medium-term balance without debt. The objective of ensuring a sustainable public financial policy is an integral part of the European Union's overall economic development guidelines since 1997 when its Member States adopted the Stability and Growth Pact. Slovenia. The crisis erupted in Slovenia in 2008. We all hoped that the crisis would last for a maximum of two years, but unfortunately that was not the case until 2013 when gross domestic product fell by more than 10% in all these years. Slovenia has a large structural fiscal deficit, resulting in two large reductions in tax rates in 2007, with a result of 1.2 billion less revenue in 2009 and 2012. The loss of public finances was partly offset by VAT and excise duties, but all at the expense of citizens and citizens. Tax discipline has also intensified. Limitation of cash operations, introduction of tax registers, improvement of information support in the direction of tax inspection, all with a view to remedying the structural deficit. I think it's time for us to make the loads and let the fiscal rule be the right way. True, recently the indicators have turned to better ones. In 2014, we recorded a positive growth of 2.5%. The number of unemployment is decreasing. We've got more working people. Trends are improving, so we need to make sure that the definition of the fiscal rule is life-saving, because we do not want to cause the new austerity hysteria introduced by the Public Finance Balance Act, when gross domestic product has fallen and is minus a percentage of 3.7%, and public financial expenditure has fallen by 400 million euros. Savings were being made everywhere, but most of all consumption was declining, leaving this negative impact on gross domestic product. The most affected were particularly vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens who reduced their consumption to a minimum. They just can't do it anymore. That's why people are expecting our help, which is justified. I therefore hope that the fiscal rule will preserve the possibility that Slovenia will use fiscal opportunities to promote economic growth, create new jobs and, last but not least, launch investment projects that have remained dead in recent years. Finally, the fiscal rule must protect the social state, public education and public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Šimenko. Get Mr. Marjan Dolinšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Council of Ministers and representatives of the Government! In Slovenia we have known for a long time that we spend more than we create. If there were no major investments to repay in the medium term in the background, this would be extremely bad for our country. If we already had a budget surplus in 2007 and in 2008 a deficit below the permitted Maastricht limit of 3%, unfortunately, over the years since 2009 we face a deficit of over 3%. As a result of the rehabilitation of the banking system in 2013, it amounted to 14,6 % of gross domestic product. Even in 2014, we exceeded this limit by 3% strongly. Public finances in Slovenia have not been balanced for a long time. If we look at only a public debt of about 82% of gross domestic product, which is six years ago, at the end of 2008, it was 22%, of course, this data shows an extremely fast trend in this public debt, which is extremely worrying for Slovenia. Slovenia is not an economically strong country. The question of when and how we will repay this debt is, of course, justified and in place. But I believe, and I'm sure we'll have to repay our debt. Due to our high debt, we must devote EUR 1.1 billion per year only for interest. If we look at what this means in terms of revenue to the budget in 2014, that means close to 15% of everything we get in the budget. All we're going to do is pay interest. And if we imagine that we could use this money to relieve the economy, we could create hundreds of jobs. We could unload wages in Slovenia, which, according to other European countries, are extremely taxed. And we're really uncompetitive. This could raise net wages for citizens and citizens. We could improve the living conditions of people in different areas. But instead of talking about these measures today, we need to talk about how we will stop the continuing debt. And in order for this headlong indebtedness of the country and thus the burden of the crisis to the economy, to citizens and citizens, to our children and to generations even for our children, it is, of course, extremely important that we write down the rules for the implementation of the fiscal law as soon as possible. No government can take the right to spend more than it can create. The budget must be at least balanced in the medium term. We all agree here. As we have already heard today, this implementing law should be adopted by the end of November 2013. Today is almost the end of January 2015 and we still do not have it. Last year, the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a proposal for an implementing law. However, there was no adequate support for him. The entry into force of the constitutional provision, which commits to the medium-term balance of the 2015 budget, is thus delayed and, of course, also constitutes increasingly difficult work for the Minister of Finance. In view of the financial situation, we believe that we are not mature for loose rules in the implementing law itself, and I think it is crucial that this law includes a formula that clearly provides for the calculation of the ceiling of the expenditure of the State and, of course, it is clearly stated in which circumstances it may derogate from this. Both had a law presented by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, the very purpose of the fiscal rule is to prevent an increase in the country's indebtedness and to make our budget more balanced in the medium term and to stop spending more than we create. However, I believe that the rules for the implementation of this law must be clearly and unequivocally written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Marjan Dolinšk, to prepare Mr Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable Council of Ministers, Honorable Colleagues, Colleagues! We have before us a bill on fiscal rules. The rule that ensures a balanced budget and prevents the government from being wasteful, ensuring that expenditure is not higher than revenue. I am convinced that we are all aware that this implementing law on fiscal rules is necessary. Regardless of which government it will be tomorrow, this law will guarantee the financial smart leadership of the country for the benefit and benefit of all citizens. While there are also public opinions that move from the fact that fiscal rule is unnecessary to the fact that fiscal rule constitutes a larger democratic deficit. All such opinions and opinions are legitimate. Opinions on the non-necessity of a fiscal rule and its anti-democraticity are completely wrong. They are based on assumptions that ignore reality and do not understand how fiscal rule works. Some, including part of the economic profession, are of the view that the writing of fiscal sustainability in the Constitution undermines the fundamental democratic principle that politicians, as elected representatives of the people, can make a sovereign decision on how and how they will spend public money for common purposes, based on the assumption that politics is responsible. Sadly, too many times in the past, this has proved to be not the case. People are supposed to be reasonable in their decisions, so no economic policy could surprise them, and it turns out that this is not the case, since, last but not least, every economic crisis, at all, the last global financial crisis, shows that people and markets do not respond rationally, but with some instinct and a completely different interest. It is the same with the responsibility of politicians. Politicians are mostly subjected to irresponsible spending of public money. It is therefore necessary to ensure the quality of public finances already in the planning phase. And the bill pays particular attention to this very stage. The proposed law, with a view to establishing a sustainable public financial policy, sets out all cases, including the principle of medium-term balance, the precautionary principle, the way in which expenditure revenue is spent, the correction mechanism in the event of derogation from the rules, the derogation in exceptional circumstances and others. In particular, the principle of caution in the planning of revenue and expenditure, which is very difficult to forecast in view of unforeseen situations today and is likely to do so in the future. Of course, we realize that you can never embrace or anticipate all the elements. We are aware that time will certainly show whether any adjustments are needed. I am of the opinion that this balance of public finances is of the utmost importance. For the financial situation today is as it is, in turn, unfortunately, we have no influence. But we have an influence today. And it's our responsibility to take care of it tomorrow. This is what our citizens are committed to. It is therefore essential that we adopt and ensure to any government that it works responsibly and ensures the long-term sustainability of public financial policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Mihi Kordiši, to prepare Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I have prepared an intervention here on the subject of the fiscal rule that I have prepared for me to present today at this assembly. But in the light of all the words spoken, I simply have to respond to these interventions instead. I had a short history of brain disease due to such claims. What if I'm going in a row? The first statement that we've had a lot to deal with today is that the country is a household. Dearly respected, as we are in the United Left, not only in the United Left but also in the United Left, we have seen many times in the National Assembly and in the committees that belong to it, the state is not a household. Anyone who utters such a thesis, I call on anyone who advocates such a political position and presents us with such a thesis that he shows me a single single household that collects its taxes and operates with its own currency. If we look at it, I don't think we need to look too closely, of course we won't find such a household. I ask you nicely if we can end with some Flossouls and demagogies, if the country is like a household and that as a household it must also behave. It doesn't hold for long, that's not true. This is one of the first such flossules to be present today at this abundant meeting. Another such sentence, which is that the state is not a household, in no way lagging behind, is to spend more than we create. Even if this thesis persisted in any way or was suitable to deal with public finances, it did not last long even if we agreed to it. We don't spend any more than we create. For example, if we look at data for 2013, we will quickly find that Slovenia has a surplus in the current balance of payments account of 5.8% of the gross social product or of the gromozane 2.1 billion euro in this surplus. What does that tell us? This tells us not only that we don't create as much as we spend, but we create a lot more than we spend. Then we are asked where these 2.1 billion euros go, why this is not reflected in our budget, why this is not reflected in the quality of people's lives, why this is not reflected in the number of jobs. And the answer is actually pretty simple if we look through some class optics. Because of the profits, this money flows into the pockets of the richest class, 1% of the richest citizens, while the nation – all the other 99% – is more naked every day and more bare every day. And if we want to contribute to the well-being of the people mentioned by 99% of the labour force, the vast majority of citizens and citizens, we do not need any more reforms in favour of the economy or such restrictions, such as a fiscal rule that merely reverses the burden of the crisis on workers, even though the workers have not blamed it. No, no, no. We need more pressure and grips towards a just redistribution of this wealth than those who have accumulated enormous surpluses in their hands, from this handful of people into the hands of those who have actually created this wealth – working people. And it would be more useful to talk about it. But if I end up at this point. The more we spend, the more we create, the little we don't hold, and that's just another demagogic floscule that we've faced today. And I'd like to ask that we remove her from the repertoire for further discussion because she can't hold it for a while. Pika. And then there's the third thing. This is a variation on what I was just talking about, which has also appeared a few times, and I must say that my favorite is – that the country is the one that creates too little. Respected and respected! The claim that the state is the one that creates too little and spends too much is the one that you most clearly point out that you are advocating privatisation processes at the same time. You are a militantly determined, irresistible advocate of privatisation, and today you claim that the country is creating too little. It is the public-owned companies that are supposed to generate a surplus that can also finance the quality of public services for all citizens and citizens. This is all I want to remind you that, please, the next time you say such things, you take those few seconds and at least think about what you say and what contradictions you get yourself involved in. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Jožef Horvat, to prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister of Finance, other ministers, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the fiscal rule law is extremely professional, difficult content and, in fact, logic is very simple. Today I would also like to tell citizens and citizens why this law needs to be adopted, why Nova Slovenije – we have already said this several times – supported the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution. With a sincere purpose to make things better for all of us. As I said at the outset in the presentation of the position, this time is a time of dry cows. And this time takes too long. Looks like it's going to be seven years. I hope not anymore. In fact, only two words are important to society’s wealth, as Benjamin Franklin put it, or the realization of two words — savings and entrepreneurship — nothing else. Savings, of course, are not belt tightening, choking, saving is actually a value. We must be missing you in our country. Today, I have heard evidence of the Government's actions in the 2004-2008 mandate, why we then abolished a Slovenian specialty, that was a tax on paid salaries, why we reduced the corporate income tax. Yes, so that the economy could develop better. At that time, we had an incredible economic growth, perhaps an overheated economy. We also had something — not to forget — in the coalition contract, we had a commitment to how many percentage points we would reduce public debt each year. Just check it out! And if we have a flat budget, that is, if we don't need 1.2 billion euros for interest, then we can also lower taxes to make it easier for citizens to live, to spend not least, and that the economy, that companies will function better, breathe with both wings of the lungs. The real entrepreneur, however, is one who somehow has a passion for growth, for new markets, for new products and for new jobs. And that's exactly what we need, new jobs. We need some 60,000 new jobs in this country today, according to our assessment. And this will, in most cases, contribute to the revenue side of the budget or to the balance of public finances or the budget of the State. We expect Dr. Marble's Minister of Finance to listen to New Slovenia's demands simply because we have made a lot of efforts to improve the bill before us. Because we really want to help truly and constructively the best solutions that will be good for all citizens and citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Antonio Kovacic, Mr Tillen Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u44	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! Allow me to present my attitude and attitude towards the Fiscal Rule Act. The financial and economic crisis, which has taken place in a large number of countries, including among us, in a fiscal imbalance, has revealed shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the public financial policies of countries. The rules in this area have been insufficiently binding and the key principles of public financial policy have therefore been defined in the country's highest rules of law. In May 2013, we supported the amendment of the Constitution to which the fiscal rule was introduced in order to ensure better respect for budgetary discipline and more responsible public finances. The fiscal pact also obliges us to do so. With constitutional law, we have committed ourselves to adopting the implementing act by the end of November 2013, but we have not done so until today. The highest act of the State – the Constitution obliges us to adopt the Financial Rule Act as soon as possible. However, the fiscal rule is certainly essential for the planning of a balanced financial policy in Slovenia, which means the revenue and expenditure of the state budgets must be gradually balanced in the medium term without an obligation or the revenue must exceed the expenditure. This principle can only be temporarily waived in exceptional circumstances for the State. These are cases of exceptional events outside the control of countries or in the event of serious economic difficulties. The most important objectives of the proposed law are: to provide long-term sustainable public finances, to provide a stronger legal framework for the effective management of public finances, to provide conditions for macroeconomic stability and sustainable economic development, to establish legally stronger rules for better fiscal discipline. Revenue over expenditure can be collected in specific debt repayment funds and, later, when the finances are balanced, also for other financing where the deficit arising from exceptional circumstances is reported. Here, for example, I would like to take care of charging the demographic fund, covering social transfers, preventing poverty and maintaining education, and in particular the health of children, people with disabilities and older people. The stability programme is being introduced into the planning process itself. The Fiscal Rule Act contains key provisions concerning the establishment, powers and functioning of the Fiscal Council. The powers are laid down in accordance with the obligations undertaken by Slovenia under the Fiscal Pact and Regulation No 473/2012 of the Council and of the European Parliament. Additional powers may be conferred on the independent Fiscal Council by other national rules. The Fiscal Council, as an independent expert and independent state authority, will, in accordance with its competences, prepare evaluations, make recommendations to the Government and the National Assembly regarding the conduct of public financial policy. All the programming priorities and measures for the further development of Slovenia set out in this coalition contract must be adapted to the fiscal framework, so that the improvement of macroeconomic imbalances will create conditions for economic growth and job creation. Fiscal rule, the implementing law was first applied this year. This will remove the unconstitutional situation. The effectiveness of the fiscal rule is already indicated in the interpretation of the 2015 budget rebalancing proposal, which has measurable positive effects on the country's credit rating and on the lower interest rate. In view of the positive effects listed above, I will support the proposal for a fiscal rule law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Tiln Christmas. Get Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. In the debate, I will focus on some of the benefits of the fiscal rule and the weaknesses that marriage solutions must bring or at least limit. First things first. First, it is appropriate to highlight the beneficial effect that has been widely reported in recent months. This is a reduction in the interest on government debt and through the refinancing of debts on the prospect of a gradual reduction in the country's interest expenditure. In the case of Slovenia, a fall in interest rates of almost 7 % at the time of accession to the Pact in today's 1.4 % and a recent improvement in the credit rating is undoubtedly at least partly attributed to the inclusion of the fiscal rule in the Constitution and the promises that in the short term the implementing law on fiscal rules will receive sufficient political support in the National Assembly. These and many other parallel measures gave a clear signal to the international financial market of the existence of a more justified likelihood that the country's large debts, which currently amount to around EUR 30 billion, will also be repaid. Next. As has been mentioned many times before, by entering the euro area, we entrusted our monetary policy to the European Central Bank. That is why we need to act so carefully with the instruments of fiscal policy, the only policy that remains for us. The fiscal rule is certainly a step that forces this and future governments to be more prudent and to plan public finances for a longer period than it has been before. Without strategic and developmental orientation, from now on, it will no longer be possible to go beyond the next public financial crisis. Nor is it possible to ignore the propensity of voicing a fiscal rule in a positive way, thereby facilitating the management and management of constant political pressure to increase spending on the country's ability to return to a fiscal framework that the country can afford in the medium to long term. I am talking about the duty of consistently countering over-expenditure and this short-term debt, without taking into account the harmful effects that this brings on the long term to my and future generations. In fact, debt costs can soon get into the spiral and thus fall into the trap of exponential growth of interest and new debt repayments. This is already our reality today. Now for the weaknesses. Given that we have already committed ourselves to implementing the fiscal rule into Slovenia's legal order by ratifying the pact and then by entering into the constitution, and in doing so we wish a good part of the positive effects, as mentioned below, raising the credit rating, increasing the pressure on the government to plan public spending prudently and so on, it is appropriate to stress in particular the weaknesses that could affect us in the face of shortcomings or irregularities in the law. Let me just point out some of the emphasis on the state of public finances in our country. Slovenia, as many other members of the European Union, is in the process of a surplus deficit. He'll have to be put away. The structural deficit needs to be corrected. Today, 2.2% have been mentioned, and we must allow this to happen gradually. Debt is still a third above the Maastricht criterion and much effort will have to be made to return to below 60% of GDP, which is still considered safe. Interest expenditure over a billion euros is directly unfathomable in relation to other budget expenditure. The budget structure is not yet sustainable. According to the latest information that we had the opportunity of coalition Members to get to know each other late last night, our government finally and firmly bites into this sour apple, which will be reflected in the 2015 budget rebalancing and so on. A failed reform of the structure and content of the state budget could lead us to extreme pressure on public finances. Would you be willing to privatize education, health care and other key building blocks of our country, which we would like to say is social, and even more so that we want to keep it to a reasonable extent? The solutions to the fiscal rule law will also depend on how bad it will be for us if our economic growth moves back down too quickly. It is a possibility of countercyclical action: giving more when we are going bad and saving for difficult times when we are doing well. Because of the difficult situation and the medium-term constraints, Slovenia has to work on eliminating faster and more shaking hands than it should if it might have had a German political and economic role in the world. It should also be borne in mind that their impact on European policy and thus on our monetary policy, the search for solutions to inflation mentioned in one of the previous discussions, is an instrument of monetary policy and not fiscal policy. Slovenia does not have this luxury in its instrumentation, despite its possible wishes. The fiscal rule must therefore have sufficient flexibility to maintain a fragile balance so that there is no firm landing so that, in full respect of the commitments we make ourselves, we can continue to raise the economy and the country as a whole through the growth of GDP, financial and business restructuring of the economy, the rise of domestic demand, new jobs and so on, so that we can return to the path of ensuring a higher level of prosperity for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The focus of the approach is therefore, in my view, a key. I stand by myself that the transition is as sharp as possible. At the same time, however, I do not support the fact that the fiscal rule has been written so loosely that what happens in Slovenian politics is very likely to happen. Nothing. The government's proposal for a fiscal rule that we now have before us will undoubtedly have a number of improvements in the legislative process, both by the opposition and by the position. With this in mind, I believe that the fiscal rule law that we are considering today is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, to prepare the mag. Claudius Marquez.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers, coworkers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law follows European Union law as it introduces into the national legal order several provisions of the Council of Europe Directive on requirements relating to the budgetary framework of the Member States and commitments under the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union. The proposed fiscal rule law lays down rules that strengthen budgetary discipline, limit the State's medium-term debt to current consumption and thus ensure the long-term sustainability of the State's public finances. It is a sustainable and stable financial development of the country. So the balance of the budget without indebtedness and the provision of financial resources for the social state, public health, public education, pensions and other transfers. This is about the fact that the state does not spend beyond its capabilities, which is very important. Not to rent expensive loans, which, of course, we have to pay back one day, but also to pay high interest. This needs to be mentioned, as this way of resolving the financial deficit leads to a worse recession. Let me remind you of the problems of some countries, such as Cyprus, Greece and so on. Of course we don't want that. True, the state must help people in difficult times. In good times, however, the state must not spend everything, said Alenka Bratušek here today. In 2006 and 2007, we had record economic growth, but we did not save on difficult times. That was very wrong. It is therefore important that we be prepared for times of distress. Respected and respected! I would like to stress another important fact that needs to be seen in the adoption of the fiscal rule law. It is very important that we decide for ourselves how and during what time period we will solve the problems of recession. I therefore consider that this law must be adopted. It's true that we're late, and I wouldn't want to talk about it right now, because there's been enough of that already. I am convinced that Members and Members understand how important this law is and that we will contribute at least two thirds of our votes in order to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Claudius Markež, get Mr. Jean Mahnic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, distinguished ministerial assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues! Much has been heard today about the government's proposal for a fiscal rule law, as well as the opposition party's proposal. However, I think that today this debate must somehow be concluded, leading to the goal, because we urgently need this law. It also needs to be confirmed, because we are aware that public finances that are crucial to achieving a stable macroeconomic environment and to our economic development need to be balanced. Once again, I would like to point out at this point that the so-called fiscal pact or Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union has in fact the main purpose of ensuring a specific budgetary discipline in the long term and preventing the crisis in which our country has been in for several years, and I personally wish that we are at the end of these crisis years. The indicators are pointing this way. There is also a need for our strong stance, a consensus of political parties, to achieve our common result, which we are all striving for. By signing and ratifying this Pact, Slovenia has also committed itself to financial discipline, in fact by applying the rule on a balanced budget and an automatic corrective mechanism. We have been briefed in detail by our Finance Minister, Dr. Marble, and at the same time we have committed ourselves to introducing this commitment into our national legal systems at the constitutional level of certain legislation that leads us to the commitments we have made to the European Commission. I cannot agree with the words of some opposition partners that the fiscal rule is a flawed, harmful and dangerous project. In fact, I object to this, because I believe that the fiscal rule provides for a way to ensure medium-term balance in the revenue and expenditure of the state budget without any debt achieved by adjusting the level of expenditure of the state sector. We all know that the essence of the fiscal rule is, in fact, the foundation of the fiscal pact and the state commits itself to not spending more than we create. In other words, our national budget needs to be balanced or to show surplus. There's no particular philosophy here. In line with the fiscal pact, the objective will be to ensure that the annual structural government deficit of the country is not exceeded by a deficit that does not take into account either conjuncture or recession. It is also important to me that this key criterion in the fiscal rule is that, when setting a minimum value at the level of the European Union, in particular, the issue of exceeding the threshold for a government deficit of 3% of GDP and the long-term sustainability of public finances, which depends mainly on the level of our debt, the country sector and the costs of potential liabilities, which may not lastly affect our public spending. Just because of what I have said the last time, the European Commission has set a medium-term objective for the state of Slovenia, a levelling structural balance. These are the key reasons, although we must also agree that the current medium-term objective for Slovenia, set by the European Commission at the level of structural balance, can be reduced once we implement these structural measures that will improve the long-term sustainability of public finances and raise potential economic growth. However, I would like to point out once again the differences in the proposal for a fiscal rule law proposed by the government this time. It seems important to me that the proposal for a fiscal rule law lays down the minimum allowed structural balance of the state sector. I don't think that's a negligible fact, and it's kind of a security guard. On the other hand, it ensures structural balance over the medium term, without indebtedness. The third important item contained in the law is to define the ratio of exceptional circumstances when a derogation from this rule is allowed. It also sets a transitional period for the gradual elimination of structural deficits without compromising macroeconomic stability, then limits the risk of pro-cyclical action of fiscal policy, as it actually allows this manoeuvre space around the structurally balanced balance in a given year. It also seems important to me that it allows a limited countercyclical response to fiscal policy in bad times and, in fact, a stronger countercyclical response in good times. When we are in a crisis, then it dictates that we do not owe ourselves when we are in good times, if I make it so simple, it is important that in some way we also provide reserves or in the sense of a good host in the future. All of this means, clearly, easier regulation of economic activities and, as a result, greater prosperity for people. The main objective of the proposed law is to ensure a long-term sustainable public finance policy, which is a key element of macroeconomic stability and sustainable and stable economic development. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Today we are discussing a proposal for a fiscal rule law, and I sincerely hope that you will vote on Friday to approve this law. In fact, I would like to have our reason, including our discernment, not least, but the sobriety that dictates the rightness of our decisions. Although I am a short time in politics, I believe that, after all, we are all directly or directly connected, responsible for solving this difficult economic situation in the country. I think that we are mature enough, intelligent and politically mature enough to adopt a broader political consensus, a broader political consensus in the National Assembly, thereby giving a clear signal to our citizens and citizens that we care about them and the stability of our country, and especially for the well-being of those outside this Chamber of Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Jan Mahnic, to prepare Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues, colleagues! Before us is one of the most important themes in this mandate, in addition to, of course, the fact that we have already passed a golden fiscal rule in the Constitution in the previous term, because fiscal rule is a rule that forms the basis of responsible and sustainable public finance policy. Which simply means that in this country we spend as much as we create, with taxes and other revenues from the state budget. The Golden Fiscal Rule is adhered to by every economist. Each economic operator may, within its own company, spend as much as it can sell its products or services on the market. That's perfectly clear. He must not owe himself and spend the money he borrows for what he does without paying off that debt. This is clear to every family member. And it is clear to every responsible master, not least to a member, that if he comes into a family, for example, for 2,000 or 1,000 euros a month, he can spend so much and nothing more. It's even better to spend less and create some gold reserve for tough times. We did this in 2007, during the first Janša government. Even a farmer, when masters of his own agriculture, is aware of exactly what his expenditure is, and is aware of how much he can gain from his activities on the market, and that he must not spend as much as he gets there. He may be in charge of, say, buying a machine, buying tractors, anything else, but at the same time he needs to know that he has to create surpluses in the coming years or that he has to sell more than he has the expenses to repay these loans. And, ladies and gentlemen, here in this House, we explain the logic that this must be done by the State or the responsible public finances so that we can spend as much as we can with tax, non-tax and other resources in this country. We spend more than 20% more than we collect with current revenues or taxes and non-tax revenues. This is a disastrous public financial policy, which is a light-year to sustainable public finances. This is similar to having a family that earns a thousand euros a month and spends a thousand 250, not just one month or one year, but does so for six years or more. We are against such a policy in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we are advocating a different policy. We are in favour of the rule that with lower taxes more taxes can be used, because if we cover more economic operators and beneficiaries, it is said that if we experience more economic growth, more businesses, more jobs, and more consumption, we will be able to collect more tax revenues. We do not agree to raise existing taxes in a given situation, we think the opposite is that the economy needs to be burdened with tax, even those who earn little, should be burdened with tax in order not to do so without having any impact on the company's competitiveness, while at the same time we must do a lot on the expenditure side when we are talking about the public sector. I agree, before that, one of my colleagues said that the state is not a household, and we do not claim to do so, but we argue that more household logic must be dealt with, with the logic of an individual who believes that everyone in his personal life is responsible for his money, because his existence depends on it, and because I advocate the idea that economic freedom is also a fundamental condition for political and all further freedoms. We'd need more logic to manage money that's not ours. We would need more such logic to manage state property, with state money. You probably know what happened in Greece. On the one hand, I am pleased that what has happened has happened, because this will only mean that when the Cypriot government continues the practical measures carried out by Prime Minister Samaras' government, it will prove to be a variety of socialist factions about debt write-offs and I do not know what else they do not hold back, and that the current policy they led was the right one. This will also, I hope, bring sobriety not only to Slovenia, but also to other countries where people are increasingly sown by extremely left-wing populist socialist parties. There was also a speech on state property, as it brings it into the budget. Take a look at the SDH financial report for 2013, where, say, Telekom Slovenije created €52 million. I worked for a year at T2 and I know Telekom Slovenije, I know what this company is, I know what it is, and 52 million euros in profit is not, I'm sorry, it's a little small for such a company. Of course, these state-owned companies are useful for a variety of other manipulations and manipulations. And if I just end with that, the balance sheet, if you look at that report, is about minus 2.2 billion euros. That's what they brought us, or better put it, by state-owned companies in 2013. I will only support a fiscal rule that will limit politics. And that's interesting when we're talking here, we have politicians or I don't have any, depending on what kind of law you're proposing, you're obviously having a very serious problem with self-limiting. In particular, we need fewer countries in these areas, thereby evaluating what is stated in the Constitution. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as has already been said, we are willing to give up at least on the anniversary, it is said that it will not be 2015, because we know that this is not feasible. But it's kind of hard to listen to your words about how bad it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to I think everyone is going to the polls to win, to participate in the government. And that, dear colleagues, we should also be aware at that time that it will not only be a nice thing to share the sweets and voters with them that they will also need to cut down on such matters. And now, when they come, if I say so in my own way, what we do is somehow avoid, how we would or how we wouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Katič, to prepare Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor! The strict savings and forecasts of countries have affected citizens by stopping investing, spending and buying only the essentials, which certainly has not contributed to faster economic recovery. Today we are recording economic growth, but these citizens and citizens do not yet feel it. We still have a number of needs to help the most vulnerable groups. Still hasn't released the bank spasm. We note a slight decline in unemployment, but in our daily lives we face a large number of unemployed in a wide variety of age groups, especially among young people. A large number of unemployed are young people. Young people learn, graduate, graduate, and know that they have no choice but to apply for employment as unemployed persons. I agree with the assessment presented in the illustrative case, the order of Pharaoh given by one of the predecessors. True, in a time of prosperity, it is right for all of us to put aside something to make supplies. But the Social Democrats demand that then, during the crisis, we share all these stocks, not only privileged ones, as was the case with the Pharaoh, especially the most vulnerable. And that's what the state has to provide. We can talk here today about various fiscal rules, about different formulas, Swiss formulas and other formulas. Social Democrats do not support that fiscal rule that will go to the expense of the social state. Dana has ensured that this law will ensure a delicate balance between budget revenues and expenditure in a way that will always protect the foundations enshrined in the Constitution – the social state, public education, public health. Social Democrats will not agree with the fiscal rule without clear and unequivocal commitments to moderately pursue its objective. Today, for example, young unemployed people are saving if we choose to balance public finances immediately here today. You couldn't survive either, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Dragan Matić, to prepare Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear government representatives, dear colleagues! At the Mir Cerar Party, we are pleased that the proposal for a fiscal rule law recently proposed by SDS has not received support and that the government has prepared its proposal. It was a premonition that the radical right hand with the fiscal rule of the Swiss recipe would like to destroy the social state in the widest sense. If the State were strictly forced to have a budget flattened in almost all circumstances at the shortest possible time, it would sooner or later be a crisis when the inflows to the state treasury were too small to service all public services and subsystems. Since we should not be in debt, we should be selling state property, then all government policies with state assets should be overstated. All types of sales should be made until the technique between revenue and expenditure has been adjusted. When state ownership ran out and the Swiss-type fiscal rule stayed, we had to continue privatisation. Public infrastructure would also fall into the throat of the privatisation gap, and in the next phase the public sector should be privatised, namely, health care, education, culture, etc., as all these services would cease to work because the state would not have anything to finance it with. Who and how, then, would take political leverage is not difficult to guess. It's the capital. In short, a legally and constitutionally prescribed fiscal rule could be misused as a lighthouse on the way to a neoliberal authoritarian society. In the Mir Cerar Party, we believe in the constitutional principle that Slovenia is a legal and social state, a country in which the market economy works, where the interest after the profits is legitimate and where the private initiative is welcome, but we do not believe in the freedom of the neoliberal type, which is similar to freedom in the jungle, where there is no room for weakness, but a stronger one eats weaker. We are convinced that through the mechanisms of democracy we can maintain a system of market mechanisms that are corrected by a social and legal state, a country in which zero tolerance for corruption applies, where the competent economic and financial crime control services operate and where the justice system operates within normal time limits. However, it is important for all of us to maintain and defend national interest, even though many people find this expression reprehensible and displeasing. First of all, we must be aware of what is in the interests of this country and its inhabitants, and this must be presented very specifically. In this case, the national interest is that we have a government that has a clear governance strategy for state property and that will lead an economic and monetary anti-cyclical policy that will not promote consumption and overheat economies during the period of the transition, but create investment for the worst days. At the time of the recession, however, it will not follow a strong reflection of saving and cutting across the board, but will be able to increase consumption and maintain the prodigious standard of its citizens through meaningful investment. The only national interest and the only ideology we follow in the SMC is to build a system that will serve citizens, not one, but 99% of citizens. In this context, we will also vote in favour of the government proposal for a fiscal rule law, because it is in the interest of all citizens that the public budget is stable and has been levelled over the medium term. However, we will closely monitor the public presentation of opinions on this issue and, if necessary, amend the proposal. The manic setting of numerical fiscal policy objectives can prove counterproductive. The European Fiscal Pact seems to be an appropriate fiscal framework. In general, it seems that the ultimate solution to this complex issue will be out of Slovenia, and we expect more discussions and more consultations from the government with Parliament when it comes to deciding on important issues of international trade, economy, environmental protection, etc., both at European and continental level. We will closely monitor these government activities, which will have to inform us of their actions and to convince us of the eligibility of their decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Franz Breznik, to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u58	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today we are in 2015, and I believe that, with regard to the commitments made in the fiscal pact, we have been missing this law for more than two years. During this time, many things have happened around us in the Western developed countries. Since 2009, Slovenia has, in my opinion, been like that boat in the middle of an assessment once controlled by the late Sterk, which according to the waves, is blowing left and right according to the wind. And this economic growth you're talking about is completely random. We can say that because countries around us have implemented a whole series of reforms, they have a very conservative financial policy, they have economic growth, even if they have committed themselves, they have been in charge of new technologies, they have been in a number of European projects. I never hear the Eureka project where we're talking about incredible technologies. Even those who are currently talking, not to sell Telekom, would like to see them, could look at what Deutsche Telekom is doing at the moment in the Eureka project, what a super fast internet is about which many Slovenian citizens or citizens can only dream and will dream for the next 30 years if they listen to this socialist thought in this national assembly. Look, we're late. We're late, the whole generation is late, and if we're one more year behind, it's going to be possible to miss the next 30 years. With the same policies, we repeat exactly the same mistakes in a certain way, at least in a financial sense, as we have already lost one country with which we lived together. Look, Germany adopted the fiscal rule in 2009. Switzerland, because you're all talking about Swiss francs, how he grew up, what problems are. Look, the Swiss are with their conservative liberal policy, whose promoter is, I can tell you, this is not about neoliberalism. In Slovenia neoliberalism does not exist, nor do we have neoliberalism promoters, it may also be needed, some serious right party, but Slovenia has, or at least, SDS, a purely conservative liberal policy, which is a condition promoted by Switzerland, Germany, and also part of Austrian economists. So look, remember the last week, remember what happened to the Swiss franc. They introduced this in 2001, two years ago we had a visit, I talked after that meeting with the President of the Swiss Parliament, he talked to me about their ways, also how they worked with ETH, the ETH Faculty in Zurich, and what results. Dear colleagues and colleagues, look, I am ready to step back, and I also think that my colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in any way, are going to introduce this. For the first time because we're always giving signals. We give signals to the market, we give signals to anyone who might have the idea of investing ever again in this post-socialist country, and this can only be one step further. The second step is, of course, the maintenance of a normal market economy. And the condition for a normal market economy is free competition. We don't have this free competition. The largest monopolies in which they flow have billions of dollars of money, still exist and limit any normal competition in this country. Whether this is in the field of telecommunications or it is in the field of insurance, oil derivatives, etc. And look, this is the key issue of this society. And you, even those of you who think of some, at least I think you're holding some liberal course, some independent direction, of course, I'm asking you what our goal is. Is your goal also to increase the welfare of people and citizens and citizens? We don't need to invent hot water because we have countries around us that have 150 years of capitalism. And stop listening to people who were economists of this country, who were planning economists, and today, with these planning thoughts, we would like to be led in this competition by the European nations. It's not working. You can't have a chance anymore. I hope that citizens, citizens, no longer give you this option because you have not proved yourself anywhere. In addition to borrowing from 22% to 82% of GDP in abnormal times from 2009 to today. Are you aware that this is almost the exponential growth of our debt? And we weren't in charge of any project at this time. We were in charge of maintaining artificial jobs that were partly produced by the Slovenian school system, which are widely owned by various agencies, not least in Telekom, they found that they have more than a thousand 200 excess people who do not know what they are doing in Telekom. And all citizens pay Telekom services through services, support their monopoly, and a thousand 200 people in Telekom don't know what they're doing. In the countryside, however, people have an Internet that is slow, like Germany had 20 years ago, or they don't get it at all. This is in 2015 Republic of Slovenia. I hope, dear colleagues in SMC's party, that you are aware that this is the end of these socialist models. We must conclude with this, and we must follow the path of normal Western democracies, which have 150 years of normal capitalism, and these are companies like Porsche, where last year, respected colleague Križanič, the last purgatory in Porsche received 8 000 euros from profit. That's what they shared. That's the kind of capitalism we want. This is an added value where they respect engineers, where they respect normal capitalists and where they respect people who have contributed in any way and, of course, private initiative and private property. All of this is a condition that we can create the normal market capitalism we wanted when we created this country. About the fiscal rule. This can be the first step, this is the first sign that Slovenia is seriously thinking. But to begin to pursue a serious conservative liberal policy and to stand for its actions and that no government will build its existence on populism. From now on, each government will also have to step forward and tell people the truth, where we are, what we will do, when we will all have to step back so that we can take two, three or four steps forward in the future. And that's the whole point of what we're talking about. I hope and I believe that you will not stretch this implementing law as far as the fiscal rule is concerned. We'll try to step back, at least I believe that part of our colleagues. Bite this sour apple isn't the most after what we've imagined, but I believe we're going to find some common compromise that will at least yield some result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Franz Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I'm sure Germany has some reason that the country is an important owner in Telekom. Clearly, ownership structure is the reason that it is afraid of taking over and then decommissioning this company. So, if a great competitor took over it, I would break it down, and even as far as I know how to think and track it, they fear that, above all, this decommissioning will look like those remote places, the remote farms will have significantly deteriorated telecommunications services. By giving us examples and sales, we will then see if this fear is unnecessary, and then we will sell such important infrastructure companies, where the fundamental practically complete development is. This is the key, it is the sale of the spine in the current structure of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Matjaž the German. Get Mrs. Marusha Skopac ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In 2011, a fiscal pact was adopted, 2013 entered into the Constitution, and since then a third government has been replaced in the Slovenian political space. We know all those who follow not only the love policy, but many things have happened during this period. From the greatest excitement to the stage of a continuous rehabilitation of both the economy and society in general, I am pleased to welcome. This is mainly because we have heard several times today that we have practically acted unconstitutionally for a year, that we are in fact before the adoption of a law that we should have confirmed with a constitutional certificate. I have my own opinion, given the circumstances that this may still be good. Why do I think that? Because in 2013, when it was adopted or incorporated into the Constitution, it was likely that this would accelerate certain cycles that would allow us to get out of the worst crisis. Now in 2015, we note that this can only accelerate and in some way only support relatively positive trends, which are very fragile, but in the hope that this trend will continue in the future. The adoption of the fiscal rule is not based on a desire from Brussels or major problems, but in particular supports and strengthens the discipline of our country, where in the past, as we can see with some reflection, we have not been the most consistent. So we're taking some kind of act, some rule that will protect us from ourselves, to balance public finances, to prevent further reckless debt, and in some way speed up or limit some negative cycle. The fundamental emphasis of the implementing act of the law provides that the revenue and expenditure of the budget, as already said, must be balanced over the medium term without any debt. Rules are laid down to strengthen budgetary discipline, limit medium-term indebtedness and ensure the sustainability of public finances. This is all in some hope that the deficit could be remedied by the end of the year or in 2019. The fiscal rule will begin to be taken into account in the preparation of budgets for 2016 and 2017. As with all political parties, support for the Social Democrats is not self-evident. So it is very important for us and we are in particular advocating the principle of medium-term balance of the budget, but not at the expense of the social state. While we have different views here, we know that Social Democrats are mainly advocates of the attitude towards the social state. The proposal will strengthen the consideration of our social component, as has already been said, that the objective of the medium-term balance of the budget must be avoided by automaticisms that deprive the human rights of the population and the population. We support the Government's proposal in the proposed text to some extent as it follows the principle of the stage of introduction and the resources for budgetary balance is also on the revenue side. It is clear from the debate that if this is adopted with some consensus, if this consensus is reached, we can for the first time in this mandate achieve almost one hundred percent support for some proposed law, which would in the long term strengthen the governance discipline of our country, and above all strengthen the strength of the dialogue that would be necessary for us to act in the future as I hope we will all act together on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Marushi Škopac, to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We adopt a fiscal rule law because we are required to do so by Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, let me stress that the signed Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, the so-called fiscal pact, is also binding on us to respect what is enshrined in Article 148 of the Constitution. The fiscal rule law is, therefore, simply a law that we are already bound by international treaties. We have before us a government proposal for a fiscal rule law that differs mainly from the recently rejected proposal in the application of the formula for calculating the maximum possible level of expenditure of the State sector and establishing the minimum value of the medium-term fiscal objective. The so-called Swiss formula, which is included in the opposition proposal, provides much more rigidly for the maximum possible level of expenditure of the state sector, which depends on the estimated volume of revenue and the level of potential compared to the actual GDP, while the lower limit is equal to the structural balance. In doing so, it should be stressed that Switzerland is a country with its currency and has the opportunity to use both fiscal and monetary policies to achieve the desired objectives. On the other hand, the government proposal sets the maximum possible amount of expenditure in order to achieve the target structural balance of the State sector, which can also be negative under the Stability Treaty, up to minus 0,5 % of the gross social product. And why is that so important? This is important because the government's proposal for a fiscal rule allows more room for manoeuvre to manage anti-cyclical fiscal policy in bad times, namely the limit allowed by the Treaty on Stability, Governance and Coordination in the Economic and Monetary Union, and a more ambitious anti-cyclical fiscal policy in good times. What does that actually mean? This means that the country, through its fiscal policy, can promote the economy through its consumption at the time of its sinking or recession and, on the other hand, save and reduce its consumption at the stage of economic prosperity. At that time, the country can save because its economy does not need any further encouragement. These are also the times when the State imposes extra funds on a special separate account. These funds may be used primarily for principals of debt payments, but if they are not, to finance deficits at the time of sub-potential growth. The possibility of using fiscal policy as a means to stimulate economic development is so much more important for our country, as it cannot lead its monetary policies as a country within the monetary union. The proposed law in the transitional provisions includes a specific rule on medium-term balance in the period when Slovenia is still gradually approaching the medium-term fiscal objective. This transitional period is of exceptional importance to us, as the immediate application of the balance of the structural balance of the sector by the State would constitute a shrinking cut in public consumption and consequently a new period of recession. We certainly can't afford it, we want it any less. In the last year, after two years of negative economic growth, our economy has finally taken on its feet and reached an ardent level of growth, even 3.2% of GDP in the third quarter of 2014. Of course, we are all aware that this growth is still on a shaky footing and would undoubtedly be caused by the shocks caused by the demand for a rapid achievement of the structural balance of the sector by the state. The projections of the Ministry of Finance show that the structural balance of the state sector is expected to be achieved in 2019 and it should be explicitly pointed out that, taking into account the proposed fiscal rule law, despite the unbalanced balance of the sector, the State will reduce public debt there to 76.4% of GDP in 2019. This will also undoubtedly help us to do the excellent work of the Ministry of Finance, which has been able to convince the world public of positive movements in our country since the beginning of its role. Undoubtedly, two very important facts speak of this. On Friday, 23 January 2015, Moody's credit rating increased Slovenia's rating from Ba1 to Baa3 and attributed a stable outlook. Thus, the Republic of Slovenia also left the group of high-risk countries after the assessment of this rating house. The return on Slovenian ten-year bonds was 1.43% on 27 January 2015, which is 15.8 basis points lower than the return on Italian bonds. All of this suggests that the government of Mira Cerar is working in the right direction. A further step in this direction is to legislate the proposed fiscal rule. In closing the fiscal rule, we will strive to achieve the broadest possible political consensus, which means that individual articles are still open to different views and further coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u66	Colleagues and colleagues! I am sorry, though, that we had just been abandoned by young viewers on the balcony who visited us. Especially because today's law is primarily about the future. Talk about how they and, of course, their families will live. Those who have used today mainly to sail on populist statements based on the example of Greece, that saving is not necessary, that we can spend as much as we want, and that little is constantly full and can be taken from it indefinitely, I say, kindly please do not cast salt on the wound to those who are actually threatened by living on the edge and do not know how to survive from day to day. Yesterday, I heard a lot about how the Slovenian Democratic Party was unable to prepare a good law that would be worthy of your support or at least to allow for further consideration. You, your respectable colleagues, are offering us a law that primarily discusses how to bypass the record in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is especially what we can understand from this law. Tell me how you will implement the following entry: "The revenue and expenditure of the country's budgets must be balanced in the medium term, without any debt, or the revenue must exceed the expenditure. This principle may only be temporarily derogated from in exceptional circumstances for the State." And if I release a few paragraphs and go to Article 2, the first entry in the constitution shall be used in the preparation of the 2015 budget. Yeah, I really want to know how. There's no formula in fiscal law. In what way will you do so, Your Honor? You're talking about cyclicality – a completely insensible concept. Where at some point we're going, where we're going, we're going up, we're going here, we're going here, we're going here, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're You talk about some exceptional circumstances and you mention unusual events that cannot be affected. I'm asking if an unusual event may be the first meeting of you and the unions. Perhaps this is an important event for you, and then, of course, it will be possible to deviate from the fiscal rule. The law, which has a few sides, I think six, if I'm not mistaken, two sides to the fiscal world. You know, everything would be nice and right, although I have quite a lot of concerns myself, because a lot of what is written in the Fiscal Council law would be applicable to define what rules of procedure. But if that's what you want to point out, how important this fiscal world is. which will be the key authority to oversee all this activity, then I am surprised by the record of the performance of this important and responsible function. I think you're talking about 20% of your time and so on. I'm sorry you didn't write down names and surnames, because it appears from the record that it's probably about certain people who won't leave their other nice functions. Your Honor! With all your machinery, you've offered us a marriage without one tangible piece of work. Unlike you, Your Honor, mainly from the SMC party, which constantly emphasises the need for cooperation and that we can do together and we need to do something good for Slovenia, I allow you to supplement and upgrade this law. Unlike you, who have never given this opportunity to the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you. The word has magic. Dusan Verbic, get Mrs. Violeta Tomic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Cooperation, a very nice greeting! I am aware that my discussion will give a little indication of the facts already known and the words heard on the fiscal rule, but due to the importance of matter for the Republic of Slovenia, I believe that this may even be necessary to remedy the current unconstitutional situation. We are facing reality in our country, that we have been in fiscal imbalances for a number of years, and this reveals a weakness in the planning and implementation of public financial policy. The sentence that we have heard many times in recent years — what does it tell us? That the executive authority has not been able to implement the basic governance policies of the State for all these years in such a way that it is not in a position to do so. As a result, this means the unenviable unsustainable financial situation of the Republic of Slovenia. For the sake of objectivity, I give the following explanation, which contains known relevant facts. As early as 1997, members of the European Union had adopted a Stability and Growth Pact, which had been complemented several times. And in 2012 they also confirmed the fiscal pact. There is also a need to add to this a Council and European Parliament regulation and a Stability Treaty on coordination in the Economic and Monetary Union. All of this was confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012. As a member of the European Union, we have committed ourselves to include all of this in fiscal rules with a view to strengthening fiscal discipline as of 1 January 2013. It is also true that in 2013 it was supplemented by Article 148 of the Constitution with the aim of moving this area in the direction of desirability. In addition to this, the Republic of Slovenia has explicitly stated in Article 2 of the Public Finance Act that macro-economic stability must be pursued in the preparation of the budget. Furthermore, the Regulation on Development Planning Documents and Procedures for the preparation of the State Budget proposal also defines the fiscal rule in Article 2, paragraph 1, point 20, with a concrete formula. All mentioned and valid clearly in the Republic of Slovenia was not sufficient to follow consistently the rules and principles of public financial policy in order to provide a solid basis for sustainable public financial policy. It is really interesting that we can achieve this only by grasping a solid legal basis called the Fiscal Rule Act, but that alone will not be enough and there will be a lot of other things to do. A few words about the law itself, namely the Fiscal Council. I strongly support the direction or definition that this body has a high degree of functional autonomy and in particular responsibility. I very much welcome the definition that they will not be affected in any way by the executive branch and thus by the political authorities on a case-by-case basis, and that its members must have real experience in these areas and be very competent. I wish that the proponents of the National Assembly would really propose to confirm the trust of a credible expert. I allow a different view of the approach and content of the fiscal rule itself, which proved to be at the time of consideration a good month ago for the same subject matter. I suppose that the then applicants were already aware that the Ministry is preparing this law, which is before us today, and an objective assessment before the decision was that, at the present time, it is not prudent to make a decision that would not be feasible this year due to known circumstances. In addition, it was decisive that the provisions of the proposed law were stricter than those resulting from the rules adopted at European Union level. In doing so, I am aware that, together, such a good legal norm does not in itself help us if the executive branch of the Authority is not aware of its responsibility to citizens and citizens. I am convinced that the bill before us follows the substance of the rejected proposal, which has its content adapted to today's state of reality. It is binding on any government regarding the management of public financial policy. I therefore have no doubt about the adoption of this law, which needs a two-thirds majority, because it is clear from the performances and statements made by Members of this mandate that each of us is aware of the importance of balancing public finances. And what I think is most important is the abolition of an unconstitutional state which is bound by the fiscal rule law itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Janez Janša has the floor to prepare Mrs Urška Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. The Minister of Finance said earlier in his performance that Slovenia is the only country that has not yet implemented a completely golden fiscal rule. That says a lot about us. The fact is that, with the constitutional amendment of May 2013, we sent only some positive signal to the international public, which caused us to pay our debts and then within the time limit laid down in the constitutional law, which was taken seriously outside, but we have not prepared an appropriate law. Because of this unconstitutionality, something quite earlier did not upset the government. When the pronunciation came to an end and credibility was seriously initiated, there was a government crisis and we got a new government, and now, after a serious and harmonised implementing law had been rejected for the first time, there was actually some material before us that was not bringing anything in a positive direction, and in a negative direction brought the relativisation of the constitutional article itself. There was a lot of talk about this the last time the implementing law was discussed, and it doesn't make sense to repeat much. If these narratives of how the maximum flexible fiscal policy that allows unbridled debt would preserve economic growth, protect the country of social justice and prosperity and solve the accumulated economic problems, then this would be ideal. But let's just look at the last six years, when Slovenia, with the exception of a year and a half, has led a drastic policy of enormous debt, it is called unlimited fiscal policy in this sense, and there has been no big boom. From 2008 to the end of last year, we have increased our public debt most in Europe, I think also the most in the world, the growth of our debt has been the greatest. Here we are the absolute recorders of European statistics. We have come with less than 8 billion debt at the end of 2008 to almost 30 billion, we are approaching 100% of gross domestic product, it is a debt that will achieve everything Slovenia creates in one year, and it is obvious very soon. In this regard, I ask the Minister of Finance, when will this public debt, officially, be added to the balance sheet of the State SIB. According to our intel soon, this year. What about Dars' debts? When do they get into the same category? All of these are data that needs to be kept on the table when we talk about such serious things as the implementing law for the implementation of the golden fiscal rule. The former country collapsed when it had about $20 billion – not euros in debt, it was less developed than we were, but there were 10 times as many who paid off that debt. This debate is extremely serious, not only of us, but also of the generation whose representatives had previously sat on the balcony, and they probably did not fully understand what we are talking about here, but they will pay for the wrong decisions made when deciding on this law and so on. This makes the legislator's responsibility even greater. The dream of debt being written off is just a dream. Twenty years ago, 20 years ago and six months ago, Slovenia was re-adopted into international financial circles, into the Paris Club, but that it was re-adopted and could be re-indebted in the financial markets, it had to sign an agreement on the takeover of former Yugoslav debt. In this agreement, Slovenia has fully taken over the entire allotment debt of the former country, according to those credits which were known to have been used in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and the corresponding proportion of so-called unallocated debts, say those credits that were used in the Federation and did not know exactly which projects. The main thing was the Yugoslav army, and the shells that were then fired on us on Sarajevo. And the outcome of these negotiations is interesting. On the negotiating team were then Finance Minister Gaspari, Governor of the Central Bank Mr. Arhar, Dr. Dark. Everyone's still alive, and they can tell, and they're also available. Slovenia has, if I am not mistaken, taken over 54% of the outstanding Yugoslav debts. We were 8% in Yugoslavia, representing 16% of the gross domestic product of the former country, but we took over 54% of the outstanding debts that we still pay each year. In paying off the principals paid by the finance ministry, I think there are still a few hundred thousand euros, of course converted from the previous currencies of the Kingdom of Serbia. This debt was assumed by the SHS State, then by the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, despite the socialist rhetoric, and also by us in the wake of the independence. These are debts from, not the previous century, but from the previous century, which we still pay, some country we haven't even been to. We were in Austro-Hungarian at the time. So this talk about how to spend as much as possible, the more you spend, the more you owe, the less you get back, the more you have your limitations on realisation. In 1994, when the Drnovškov government signed this agreement and was ratified and amended by Parliament, the constitutional amendment adopted in a few hours, which the Slovenian public today practically thinks was only about the establishment of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor, had far worse objectives, which also have financial implications. That constitutional amendment deleted from the Slovenian Constitution a provision which was adopted in this or older hall at the same place on 25 June 1991 and which stated that Slovenia was willing to pay only a proportional part of the former Yugoslav debts. In order to allow Slovenia to return to the financial markets, Slovenia has agreed to pay not only disproportionate but an absolute disproportionate part of the former Yugoslav debts, so it changed the Constitution or the Basic Constitutional Charter within two hours. Anyone who doesn't believe in looking at the 1991 text and the text we have today in the constitution. Without telling the public the whole truth. The MPs got the material on the table. There was a closed session, no one was allowed out, their phones were picked up. And in the evening, there was a constitutional change under the roof. It only reflected the fact that the debts of the depositors of the Ljubljana Bank branch in Zagreb and Sarajevo were left on the shells and that new banks had been established, it was said how the sovereignity of the State was being saved, now that we were also paying the disproportionate part of the former Yugoslav debts, it was possible to calculate the price of those decisions. I think that the Slovenian public needs to know this when today it listens to stories about how it is possible to be in debt indefinitely and how this election result in Sunday's elections in Greece is something that has only reinforced the arguments in this direction. Greece is in such a high debt that it is actually a big question whether it is capable of paying these loans in some real time. And it is almost certain that, probably not under this government, but below the next, there will be further reprograms. The previous government negotiated for this, then this political crisis extended the deadline until the end of February at the end of the following month. If there are no reprograms, the capital will go west, 10 billion will have to be returned by the end of August this year. We'll see how it goes. That's where our money is. Those who look forward to paying off their debts to Greece must know that we too will pay for them. Our taxpayers. Today the Greek government has decided to increase the minimum wage to 30%, it is said to be higher than we do. At the same time, we'll pay their debts if this works out. I don't think it's gonna work out. Let us look at the results of this unlimited debt policy over the last six years. According to the Economic Chamber, we have lost 91,000 jobs in the economy at this time. We're in debt for 22 billion euros. At the same time, we lost 91,000 jobs in the economy, some of which were created in the public sector, which is an additional cost. Of course at this time. No need. Our gross domestic product has fallen by 7,5 % at this time. Here are some calculations of how much would have fallen if the Swiss formula had been used in the next four or five years. Supposed to fall by 6,5 %, if I am not mistaken, the Ministry of Finance calculated. In the last six years, we have not had the Swiss formula, no restrictions on the government, they have been European, and they are the same as you now want to marry. It didn't work. We didn't just lose 91,000 jobs. In 2008, Slovenia issued almost the same number or even more work permits for foreigners. It says about that much, almost 100,000 people in Slovenia have worked and created added value, but they are not included in this overall statistics because this was carried out separately. And these are huge numbers that directly affect the well-being not only of those who have lost their jobs, but also of all others and the entire balance sheet and the gross domestic product and macroeconomic numbers. Things aren't that simple. Let's make a commitment, and there'll be new jobs. I guess that's not working. There are solutions somewhere else. And here in these debates that have been, we can see that these are fundamental conceptual differences. It is said that the golden fiscal rule, which is now in the constitution, has to be loosened somehow because of its sovereignty and because of the social state. It's the other way around. The more solid public finances we will have, the less we will be indebted, the more sovereign we will be. We will have better public finances, more will be created, less will be owed, less will have to be paid for principal and interest, greater prosperity, greater social state. They're very simple things that you just don't want to hear. Even human rights were discussed if we were to overbalance income and expenditure to violate human rights. I think it's the other way around here, too. With a new debt, you not only violate the human rights of those who now have to pay excessively or those 91,000 people who have lost their jobs, but also the human rights of future generations, including the unborn who will pay these bills. Let us be a little moderate in using these words. Now specifically about the law itself. As has already been said, by the way, the text, as it is before us, relativises clear words, clear dictatorship, legally purified and coordinated year and a half, from the constitutional amendment we adopted in May 2013. The adoption process did not start in May, and then it ended. He started far before he was under our government. The text of the constitutional implementing law, which you rejected a few weeks ago, was in line with this Swiss formula at the same time with the constitutional amendment. Because at the time some parties did not want to vote in favour of a constitutional amendment until the implementing law was also harmonised. Nevertheless, they did not want to, only after the collapse of our government and we acted as the opposition as constructively as possible, the text of the constitutional amendment was finally adopted. But at the time, the implementing law was harmonised, including the so-called Swiss formula, which some people today refer to as "I don't know what" and you've already landed on it. In Desus and in the SD, you were basically the same Members and Members, the same party, with the same responsibility, no significant difference here. There are records of these coordinations, where the texts have been coordinated, and read them as you have them. This is not about the Slovenian Democratic Party having changed its mind. Two parties who are in the coalition today have changed their minds. SMC and the United Left have no history here and it is impossible to talk about it, but two parties to the coalition have already coordinated and coordinated some text and should follow this. Here it is only proposed to legislate rules that are already in force. The Stability and Growth Pact has been valid for us since 2004, when we went to the European Union. The fiscal compact has been ratified since 2009 or 2010, when we signed it. And now we will write in the Constitutional Law the same provisions that are already in these two acts. The government here also admits that this is what this is all about. This is already true, accepted or not accepted, for Slovenia, it is mandatory, because we do not achieve these objectives, we are in the mechanism of the surplus budget deficit. We are under the control of the European Commission, so there are commissions, inspections. One just left. And it won't be any different if it's written in this law. No added value here. However, this relativizes a very clear dictatorship, which is in the constitution itself, and from this point of view, it is better for those who advocate a serious policy and defend the real and social state and sovereignty of Slovenia that this law, such as it is, is not as it is. This dilemma is quite clear. If the coalition does not arrive in a coordinated manner by Friday with any additions in a direction that is realistic and which can be supported, we will not vote in favour of such a solution. We admit the time dilemma. This government, with the exception of the two smaller parties that are in each government, did not have time for the transitional period laid down in the Constitutional Law, by which we amended the Constitution. And here you can talk about flexibility. We wrote 2015 as a mandatory deadline for coordination in May 2013, it is said, two years ago. And this time is needed. Fiscal consolidation has its limits, that's what it is. Very drastic shocks also have negative consequences. And it is possible to talk about putting this transitional period of two years, which was set in 2013, into a solution and thus getting rid of the Damocles sword that he otherwise has on his neck. However, we cannot agree that a provision required in the Constitution is simply being relativised in order to resolve this problem. It is sharper than the Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Compact, especially more acute than the Stability Pact, but the Stability Pact is something that applies in general to all countries that are in a better or worse position than we are, mostly better, and we are dealing with a concrete situation. And no European regulation, which applies to all, can be specific enough for each country individually, so we finally have room for manoeuvre. At this stage of the procedure, we are prepared to support the law only with a firm and clear commitment of the coalition to upgrade it. I told you where we see a real problem for this or for any other government and where we are willing to talk. Maybe two more things. A ranking of countries with an economic freedom index has been published. I think that this scale should be very sober for everyone who is part of the legislative body, especially the government, especially the part of the government that belongs to liberal internationalism. There are two parties in the government who have their Members or their representatives when it comes to meetings at European level, between European liberals, Desus and Mir Cerar Party. In Europe, liberals are significantly more strict advocates of financial discipline than, say, our group of conservatives and Christian Democrats, or the European People's Party. What I had previously heard about some harsh liberalism, wild liberalism, neo-liberalism by Members who are among the formal European liberals – see if you are afraid that someone will translate it and ask your president something. This is just as much as if colleagues from the SD here are criticising social policy and social policy. The same goes for Desus. As far as I know, your Member of Parliament, Mr Wigel, is sitting in the Group of European Liberals. This is where you're discussing brutal liberalism. In Europe, you represent it, you vote for such solutions. It's going to take a bit of alignment, I'll say, on its own. Then it will be possible to seriously discuss and decide on conceptual issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Today we are discussing the proposal for a fiscal rule law. In view of the legal framework we have set ourselves, on the one hand this is the constitution, in 2013, we amended Article 148, on the other hand, the fiscal pact as a special international treaty, as well as the ratification law in the 2012 National Assembly, so I think there can be no doubt whether this implementing law is adopted or not. I think that, in view of at least two legal frameworks, this must be urgently accepted. The implementing law will only determine how to implement what is already enshrined on the one hand in the constitution and on the other hand in the fiscal pact. In this place, it has been noted during the debate that we are relatively united, except for one parliamentary group, which stands in the position that the fiscal rule should be deleted from the Constitution. On the contrary, the writing of the fiscal rule in the Constitution was the first step towards stabilising or balancing our public finances and a positive signal for financial markets. However, in order to achieve this goal, the correct balance of public finances will indeed be much more than a rule entry into the Constitution and probably also in this implementing law, as I mentioned earlier, the constitution was adopted or corrected in 2013, the fiscal pact of 2012, and this has not helped us much. What do I think here? In particular, changes in the direction of different budget preparation, towards a programme budget that will allow us to monitor the use of resources through individual programmes, thus allowing for effective rationalisation, effective performance assessment and so on. Then the adoption of other laws, notably the Public Finance Act, other measures, structural reforms and so on. I believe that the fiscal rule, although it has been exposed several times today, is not a mechanism that would adversely affect the economy. On the contrary. Trends in the world and Europe indicate that the number of countries with adopted fiscal rules is increasing, the number of countries with more than one fiscal rule is increasing, and the importance of the structure is also increasing, or [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the budget. Thus, I think it is more substantively important what a single rule is appropriate for a given country. But here I think there's a way [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps, first of all, in the introduction, I would like to recall some of the debates and views of the members of the coalition's parliamentary groups that we heard yesterday. Yesterday there was a great deal of talk about how the solutions proposed by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party in both of the laws introduced are neither comprehensive nor systemic, are not such and are not different, I do not remember all the possible adjectives and decorations that you have used. For today's agenda, you haven't found that what we have on our agenda is not in accordance with the Constitution. Yesterday you processed our laws in great detail, in detail, today you overlooked the capital problem. I think that's one of the big problems in this country. Even if I recall the beginning of this meeting of the National Assembly, when we have procedurally addressed the problem of the so-called mini judicial reform, some GRECO recommendations, which are not part of the European acquis, are legal, we simply have a problem here because we are not able to implement the solutions that are enshrined in the second section of the Constitutional Law, which was adopted in a timely and long time ago, a year and a half ago. In short, it's some big problems we've got ahead of us. The second thing they don't give exactly good promises to carry out this project is an example. Every previous government and government must have been aware of the difficult situation in which the country was facing major financial problems, but the first actions of this government were to enrich what is the main problem in public finances, namely administration, state administration and other related and cost-related things. This is said exactly what is the subject of fiscal regulation, this is a true balance. If the first measure of the government is to increase the number of ministries to do nothing at the rationalisation of the state administration, if additional employment and opening up jobs that cause costs, then it is not a good trip for any government to deal with matters where we have major problems. The government cannot do one thing, and of all others it can demand something completely different; saving, cutting, cutting costs and so on – not saving, but cutting costs and needs. Also this statement, which was made in the introduction by President Cerar of the Government, that he said that the Government is proposing very strict rules for managing public finances, is not in fact true. The law you rejected in December, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, was rejected by the exact same argument. You have rejected this law because it is too heavy because it does not allow any flexibility and now you are talking about a law that imposes very strict rules on public finances. I think it would be very good if the President of the Government, including the Minister, including those who are discussing solutions to individual laws in the National Assembly, looked at what you did when you rejected a matter, which is what you argued. I think that the problem is that in some ways these things are merely pianistically putting a bill into the process, and in substance this means a completely different concept. I think that the President, our President, has said very well earlier that the objective of both governments and also coalitions is just how to devalue the matter, to water down that these constitutional provisions or this constitutional provision would have no effect in the way it was enshrined in the Constitution. Now, if those of us who participated in the entry or amendment of this constitutional provision were to take these problems seriously, then they would have been able to approach them in due time when this provision was written down to solve this problem. However, the government, supported by perhaps other allies, not just those in the Alliance, did not take this seriously. It was, like probably in this case, for some kind of financial placement into the constitution. The government jumped on its head at the time, changed or the party that was running the government at the time, changed its position only to the extent that it met the expectations of the European Union, and then left everything that went on, as it did or even the opposite, after the fiscal rule had been entered into the Constitution, there were enormous numbers of statements that there would be no interventions, not there, not so much; the government of Alenka Bratušek said that we had done so, but that we would not do any root interventions from here on. I'd like to point out another problem. What you're trying to do with this law is actually buying time. Buying time for these things to be amortised, to somehow settle down, once the situation is sharp enough, will be one way or another – regular or premature – and to the government that will arrive, perhaps the government that will be formed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be tightened. It has done everything to bring down the government and then 10 years of peace for those who have not done virtually nothing solid, nothing binding in this work. In short, I would like to point out that the things we have in the constitution and the things that are the fundamental problem of this country, you are going in a very subtle but mild way. All the way these things go forward is through the extra costs and burdens of the budget, the effects of what will be added to the taxes and the purchase of money on the markets will not be done in a productive way – it is said not to be used for development, not for jobs and so on, but only for the purchase of social peace and for individual forms of employment. I believe that the solution proposed by the Government must be taken seriously and responsibly. This is no longer a matter of overplaying each other now, the government must make a firm commitment, also organise and reconcile a solution to what is enshrined in the Constitution, and if this is not the case, then unfortunately we have a top-level constitutional expert in the position of Prime Minister who is concerned that constitutional provisions are not being implemented. This is just the point of being brought through the government procedure into the legislative process. It is time for these masks to fall down, to start talking about problems seriously, not to look for those circuits, how to overplay, and eventually the problem will only get bigger. The fact that we have been falling down these ladders for many years now, not only with these last things, with recent publications, but a series of years, means that things in this country are not moving in the right direction. In no comparative area published by the international institutions, Slovenia has not made progress since 2008. None at all. I think it's an alarm sign for everyone. Unfortunately, the things proposed by these solutions coming to the National Assembly do not predict, give no hope for improvement. It is not expected either in the area of public finances, nor in the field of, I don't know, tax freedom, if we use this data, the day you used it to satisfy all tax obligations towards the country and so on. In short, no improvement can be expected in any of these areas. I think that this law, as it is written, is unacceptable, is not in line with what is enshrined in the constitution, and I am sorry that all those who are few of you have not noticed this nor has this problem been pointed out in the internal - probably internal - coalition coordination, not in the debates of the National Assembly. In particular, the problem seems to me because yesterday we listened to the debates of all coalition Members exclusively at this point, that they are incompatible, incomplete, incomplete to interfere with some other things, and that is otherwise arranged. Here we have a simple and short provision, the number is written, the date is written, the budget being implemented, which is now being implemented, is incompatible with this provision, probably the balance cannot be different either, since the basis remains exactly the same. In short, I think it is right to warn the Government and the coalition that it is time for problems to begin to be resolved in a serious way and as stated in the constitutional provision in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. First of all, I have to deal with some general rhetoric, which we have been following mainly on the right side, the economy and the narratives about how the country is often compared with the household, some comparing it with the farm, looking for reasons in essence for their economic recipes and advice in some pre-modern societies, even back to Moses. I would say first of all that the state is not a farm or a household. There is some fundamental difference between these, say, economic entities. If the country takes one euro out of its spending, it will significantly reduce its income on the other hand, it will reduce GDP. As we have seen during the crisis, for every euro taken by the state from circulation, its GDP fell by 1.7 euros. On the other hand, if a farm or household does so, this has no effect on its income, because there is a fundamental difference between income and expenditure on the other hand, which does not apply to the State because these matters are intertwined. Thus, this metaphor does not stand, and please, if you stop deceiving the public with such comparisons. Then another thing, about these pre-modern societies and how they were making the times of fat and dry cows more difficult, I would say that. This was before the emergence of modern capitalist economies, this was before the emergence of modern monetary systems and economic advice that they were then, but we can take them as something I don't know, a historical relic, but we can't take them as recipes to solve the problems of modern societies, because these societies have different problems and different recipes to face them. Rather than Moses, let us turn to some Keynes. Another thing often used by the right hand and extreme right is the belief that the world began in 2009. This narrative begins as follows: 2009 and 2009 this terrible indebtedness of the country. But no one wonders what happened before that or what happened to this country’s indebtedness, and I will therefore repeat again, as I have made very clear in my opening remarks. The financial crisis started in the financial markets. It's where it's poured into the banking sector. When the banking sector collapsed and with it a large part of the productive sector, countries had to step in to solve the crisis. What did this look like in Slovenia? The right-hand side of this Parliament knows best because, in these key years before the crisis, it has led the country, and in these key years, the net external debt of this country has increased by €10 billion. I am not talking about public debt, but about the debt of the country as a whole, i.e. the population, households and businesses. And what happened after 2009? When the crisis devastated our economy and the banking sector, the state had to step in and a great deal of government debt had begun since then, similar to all over southern Europe. The difference between Slovenia and Greece is that Greece is a policy similar to that of you for four years, it has led for 20 years and that is why it is so much more in trouble. And the last time; we have heard that this commission is to be that which will bring us to Greece. Just the opposite! As I have shown in my introductory address, fiscal consolidation is precisely the policy of belt tightening, which is nothing more than laying responsibility for the financial crisis on the shoulders of the population, which will lead us to Greece and the history of Greece in the last five years is not a history of enormous indebtedness, including enormous debt, but, above all, an attempt to balance public finances. To conclude, I have only one more request for Minister Marble, and I would ask him if he could answer our question about the functioning of the fiscal rule in good times. Since the Ministry of Finance simulation suggests that in good times we may have to tighten our belts even more significantly than in recession, I wonder if we can at the same time, according to your estimates. [[sign for the end of the debate]] the social state and economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u78	Madam President, thank you for the debate. In fact, today's debate was quite varied, and here there were quite a few numbers interpreted or presented, and I think we have to serve with some numbers that are real. In the history of Slovenia there was a budget surplus once, that was in 2007. The Prime Minister was then Mr Janez Janša, the Finance Minister was Dr Andrej Bajuk. 3.3% economic growth, 4.3% unemployment and 22% debt compared to GDP. This was the end of 2008 when the government of Janez Janša ended its mandate and then we came to the so-called left side in Slovenia; the left government somehow to date and see where we are with these numbers; the fall of gross domestic product cumulatively approximately 12%; unemployment approaches 10%; the country's debt reaches more than 80% of gross domestic product. This means that in these six years the left-wing government has managed to entrust Slovenia enormously, to increase unemployment by almost 10% and to reduce gross domestic product by more than 12%. It's a left-wing government policy. Now, if what you said was true, how positive the debt was, then I would expect, given that Slovenia, during this period of left-wing governments, is extremely indebted to have, I would say, significantly lower unemployment. But you have managed to enormously indebt the country and also to increase unemployment to almost 10%. That means your theory probably doesn't hold. Slovenia is paying EUR 1.1 billion of interest today, which means that about 15% of the annual revenue in the budget is paid for interest only. I think these numbers say something and give her time to pour ourselves some clean wine and realize that this fiscal rule needs to be adopted. Slovenia has been in an unconstitutional position for more than a year, which means that we do not respect the Constitution. It was very interesting to hear the debate of some MEPs and SMC Members who somehow realized that this proposed fiscal rule law proposed by the Government of Mir Cerar was somehow empty and substantively flawed. They also said in their address that, with the help of the opposition, they expect this bill to improve further. Here we can conclude that Slovenia has been in an unconstitutional position for more than a year and the Slovenian Democratic Party has been aware of this and we have put our fiscal rule into the procedure of the National Assembly in November 2014. If this is true, as some MEPs and SMC say, I am now interested in why you did not back up the fiscal rule given by the Slovenian Democratic Party because it was in the same relationship as you are now – this means that it was in the first reading – and because of your capriciousness that everything proposed by the SDS does not have to be supported or supported, Slovenia has lost again three months. If you would back up that fiscal rule at that time, you might be able to have another reading in the National Assembly today. But no! You yourself have come to the conclusion that the proposal for a fiscal rule law is somehow weakened, that it allows too much opportunities and that it will need to be improved. At least that is how I understood the discussions of some Members and Members of the Peace Cerar Party. Our opinion, of course, is that it is imperative that we adopt the fiscal rule for Slovenia and for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not for Brussels. For the only fiscal rule and implementing law enshrined in accordance with the Constitution is the only guarantee that in the future it will not be left, nor the middle, nor the right government will be able to delegate Slovenia to extreme matters. Because we can see that this extreme debt that we have witnessed over the last six years has probably gone five, six generations ahead and that we are paying very dearly for this debt. Above all, this debt is felt by the Slovenian economy and also by the individual citizen and by the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, because there is no other effect from this title than to increase taxes. The problem with Slovenia is also that all these duties, which were made, were made for current consumption. There was no obligation to make an investment out of it in order to contribute to the growth of gross domestic product or to create a new job at the expense of borrowing. No, Slovenia lost about 90 thousand jobs. Dear Minister, I hope you still have time to say so. We now have a framework here, we have a draft of this proposal. You yourself have listened to today's debate, there have been some meetings with individual parties and I am really interested in what you intend to do in the future with this proposal. Are you assessing that this proposal is complete or are you prepared to make any further corrections within, any further adjustments to the substance, that this law will not be empty and that it will actually follow the constitution? I expect your answers because we estimate that this implementing law at a given time, the proposal for a fiscal rule law, allows for too open options and that there is no guarantee here that then this fiscal rule, if adopted, would actually protect citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from the enormous indebtedness of one or another government. It is also important to stress here that this fiscal rule must probably be adopted as soon as possible. Now, at all costs of a personal fiscal rule, I will not support just because we have an implementing law. I think that this implementing law must have a tail and head and in between some content that will correspond to all the things that have been announced before. The situation in Slovenia is only getting worse, except at interest rates, but this was the European Central Bank's measure and Draghia's, so don't talk about how interest rates are falling and how it is due to one or another government. Nevertheless, Slovenia remains in this debt, which will have to be repaid once and for all, especially that annual payment of interest rates that have already reached more than 15% of the budget revenues. I also expect that in some of the following minutes you still have, it will be explained what else you intend to complement or what things are somehow acceptable to you, which you have also heard from the proposals we have made to individual Members or Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I will try to sum up what was directly related to the law and what were the questions raised. Before I go to this, please just give me some time to answer a few more questions or arguments that have emerged in this discussion. First of all, I would like to point out that Germany, which has been repeatedly mentioned, will have a structurally balanced budget this year and has a fiscal rule that is softer than what we are proposing today. At the same time, it has relatively good economic growth, on which Slovenian economic growth rests. These references to Germany may not be entirely relevant. Furthermore, in Germany, debt falls as a share in gross domestic product from more than 80% to 76% and this fiscal rule will also continue to extend the debt of Germany. The next thing is the thesis on Greece's over-indebtedness and write-off, I think, of a completely logical write-off for Greece. I would say that we must be aware, however, that Slovenia has granted direct loans to Greece for EUR 263 million while guaranteeing 1.55 billion of their debts. In doing so, I would particularly like to draw attention to the following fact. In Slovenia, at 80% of the debt, according to the gross domestic product, we pay around 3% of the gross domestic product of interest per year – over 3.3 around, while Greece pays 4.57% of GDP for interest and over 170% of GDP. So they have substantially lower interest rates than Slovenia has, by about 1.5%, due to international aid. And in this way it is part of this debt practically written off, because the current value of this debt is significantly lower. This is said to be an estimate that Greece cannot afford its debt when it has practically only 1.2% of gross domestic product on top of us, and we normally plan a lower deficit of 3% of GDP for this year, which is, I would say, very flat-rate. He himself would not have simply estimated that Greece was unable to repay that debt. However, I agree that there is a need for a time-limit for this debt, so that it is sustainable. The idea that the countries that were in the three-way programme were a disaster – you have countries where this has emerged as a problem such as Greece, you have countries that are at a completely different end. That's what Ireland is like. Ireland came out of the programme, with an extremely strong economic growth of over 4% of gross domestic product. The problem in Ireland is even that they fear that they will come to a similar situation as they were before the crisis and that they will have a balloon on the real estate market. In this way, the central bank in Ireland restricts loans to the public and thus tries to cool down this market. So we have the whole spectrum, and I wouldn't have come to as simple conclusions as they were listed here. So much is possible only for the general debate. Now, more specifically, with regard to the draft law currently under consideration and your comments on it and the direct question of mags. The cooker, what is acceptable here or in which direction this draft could be improved. The first thing that has been mentioned several times is that it is not sufficiently specified what is the largest volume of public financial expenditure in a given year. We have followed this Stability and Growth Pact, and for all these simulations that we have done and which we have also handed over to you, we have used the formulas in the back. This description of this formula and then it can also be written mathematically – we see no problem. The only thing that is crucial is that the whole law rests on the fiscal pact and the Stability Pact, and if it changes essentially the definition or changes these European rules, then it makes sense to adjust the formula accordingly if these changes occur, because we are cosigners, we accept these rules together with others from the European Union. So it can be written in a form, we can agree, in what form, I don't see the problem here, and by doing so we can describe more precisely what is in simulations actually. That's what you're saying, this clear record of this restriction. Down this entry is relatively simple and the formula to be relatively able to write, it is a bit harder up there and it should essentially be agreed which entry would be appropriate, because it is up there, is said when a good situation is in the economy, the question that it is open up and can increase when the economy is well. It's not a limited deficit and it can be bigger. Here I must give an immediate answer to Mr Mesec: when it is above average, the potential growth of the economy must, in principle, be a medium-term period without indebtedness. So as long as it goes down or goes down — that is to say, as much as the deficit can be in times when there will be sub-potential growth when there is a bad situation in the economy, you actually have to create an excess in that period that is a good period. This ensures, of course, a zero debt for the entire period and is said to be symmetrical. However, if the Government so decides or the National Assembly decides, a reserve can be made at a time when it goes well and this reserve can be made when it is only doing a little good to adapt and the medium term must be free of debt. So much is possible with regard to the formula or clearer writing and from which some then feel that this restrictiveity is then relatively well established. I also wanted to say that Ireland, for example, which is in a situation similar to that of Slovenia in terms of smallness and does not affect the ECB's monetary policy, has exactly the same record of fiscal rules as we have. Thus, they, in fact, only introduce what is in the Stability Pact and the fiscal pact, but they have a slightly more specific functioning of the Fiscal Council. Cyclicity. The question was, what is cycling? I think that's clearly written in the text itself. One economic cycle is, of course, when you have medium and medium economic growth and when you have this cycle, we have defined it so that it is levelled in this cycle; medium-sized growth must be aligned with medium-sized growth. With this flexibility in defining the cycle is given, but cycles, as we know, can be three years, can be five years, can be ten years. It is crucial not to kill in a cycle with a predetermined spending limit, but we need to adjust the limitation of expenditure to the actual state of the cycle. Thus, from an economic point of view, this is the most meaningful definition. The next question was, What is an unusual event? There have been cases, Olympic games, etc. The key is that it cannot be affected. Key. The Olympic Games are, of course, decided by the State, and the budget is likely to have funds for this. What is crucial here is that an unusual event is an event that cannot be affected, these are exceptional circumstances, and where is it then – because if I understand you correctly, the question was where is the guarantee that we would not invent these extraordinary events and then deviate from the fiscal rule. We must be aware that, in essence, procedures such as surplus deficits are also being implemented under the Stability Pact and the Fiscal Pact. If we deviated from the definition of exceptional circumstances from what the European Commission defines, then we would still be in the process. Thus, it is not possible to determine exceptional circumstances on your own without actually aligning with the European Commission, because otherwise you have an immediate problem. The Irish have the same thing, they have the same thing. With regard to the Fiscal Council, the issue of the Fiscal Council is as follows. We have been thinking about the Fiscal world in this way that experts are working on these problems at all times. So, yes, it is the President of the Fiscal Council who has much more work to do with the administration itself, it is by writing reports, opinions and so on, with communication, while the two remaining members who do so in their regular working hours could only be 20% employed and this, in our opinion, is completely enough. Of course, everything else has higher costs. Moreover, of course, the Fiscal Council, as it is intended, can be a matter of debate. Here we cannot say that this is not one of the best solutions, but they can be different and also different opinions. [[…]] Technical questions have also been raised; well, for technical questions we are open, if any technical questions are posed, we will try to find a better answer for them if no one has found this answer inside. The next question was whether this law now guaranteed compensation. Debt is, of course, considered as a share of the debt in the gross domestic product, so it is also defined in the Maastricht terms and so on. We did a simulation. If this fiscal law is applied as it is now, what happens to debt in a gross domestic product? It is the highest in 2015, which is 83.2% and then falls, falling to 76.4% by 2019. In fact, this decline is largely dependent on economic growth; higher than economic growth, this decline is greater, but in the assumption of economic growth by 2019 it falls and, say, the last year falls, this is from 2018 to 2019, by about three percentage points. In this way, it is also ensured that the country's indebtedness is slowly adapting to this rule to 60% and that it goes towards 60%, which is now happening in Germany. This introduction of the fiscal rule reduces Germany's debt. That means we're vouching for a debt. The next question was a key issue of constitutionality. We have paid very much attention to this, including to the President of the Government, which has already been mentioned. As a constitutional lawyer, he was the first person I went to to to clarify what the constitution actually says, because from the parties that you were then accepting this change of constitution, I got completely contradictory explanations of what it says. Some explained that it basically states that in 2015 there must already be a structurally balanced budget, while others considered that by 2015 the budget should be drawn up for the first time in line with this medium-term objective. The Prime Minister, who was involved in this drafting of the text, read it again — several times. In his view, as stated in the eloquent sentence in which this year is 2015, the budget to be drawn up must be in accordance with the fiscal law to be adopted in 2015. We have done everything that, under European rules, you must first, when you have essentially corrective measures, be below 3% of GDP, the deficit must be below 3, then the structural deficit must be reduced by 0.5% to where it is flattened. That's exactly what we did. This budget balance, which will be adopted by the Government tomorrow, reduces the overall ESI deficit from 5.4% to less than 3%. Thus, we have met this criterion that the deficit is below 3% and the 2015 budget will be made in accordance with these rules – the Stability Pact and the fiscal pact. So we have stuck to the fact that by 2015 the budget must be made this way for the first time. After this fiscal rule law is passed sooner or later than the budget, it is not relevant. It is crucial that the budget is in line with this. On this basis, we believe that until each year we begin the medium-term period, this is only after about four years, until then the structural deficit is reduced by 0.5 and that this is in line with what is enshrined in the Constitution. There are different interpretations here. The interpretation of a person who, until then, became Prime Minister of the Government, is the most respected in this area of constitutional law, and we have followed it at the Ministry of Finance, both in the preparation of the budget and in the preparation of this fiscal law. Then it was also a question of whether the law ensured that it would be a social state; but that we would not essentially be principles of this constitutional basis that the state was a social one. We have made the law so that the restrictions imposed by European legislation and now by the Constitution are fully supported by GDP growth. It is said that this allowing flexibility within the cycle and also this approximation in the medium term is a transitional period during which you reach a zero structural deficit. That's how it's done. This is precisely the difference between the two proposals of the law that GDP growth is maximised. Of course, with the maximum growth of GDP, we also have the most opportunities, which has already been heard many times today, that we have the greatest possible space for both the social state and social welfare. That might be my answer. That is, of course, until the vote, we are open. It is said in the area of more precise definition, even in the area of possible this period of approximation, how to define this period, to be as firmly defined as possible and also in the area of the Fiscal Council, if there is any dilemma here, of course, we are open to interviews. This is just a law that we adopt as a Parliament with a majority, with a two-thirds majority, and it has to be unanimous here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. All reported debaters What would you like? [[…]] Procedural? It's a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank you for some of the answers, but I think it's fine, also because the public listens to us. In fact, you stated in the Fiscal Council that 20% is written mainly because we also have to look at the austerity aspects. Look, if we were to be so exact, I don't know why two additional state secretaries, who are just political functions, and here we're just talking about some kind of professional function. I also want to know why 20%. I mean, look, at least 20% to the president. In your response, you have given a number of duties, obligations and tasks to which this President will have them, but you write down that there can be enough 20%. I don't know where these calculations come from, why such a concrete proposal. I would really like to explain because I find this somewhat unusual in relation to the rest of the very loose record in the marriage. Last but not least, I don't know why not 10%; but if we really care about saving, then this should be an honorary function for all three. So I would really like to ask you for an answer, because it's on my mind, and I'm particularly sure it's certain people who aren't prepared to leave any other functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you. I estimate this was not a replica, but given that the time for discussion has not yet passed. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. I ask if anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A request has been made. If he also wishes to discuss the President of the Government as a representative of the proposed law, please apply with a raise of hands. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, I thought there would be more interest. I would like to say two things; first one general and then one very concrete. By entering the fiscal rule into the constitution and by adopting the fiscal rule law, Slovenia would certainly be included among those countries that will guarantee increasing fairness and solidarity at the financial level, both in the country itself and in the international scene. Strengthening justice and solidarity at the financial level also ensure quality better co-existence and systematic work for peace at home and around the world. Despite our geographical and numerical littleness, we can be great in our efforts for these greatest good. It seemed very important for me to present this thought to you, colleagues and colleagues, as well as to the representatives of the Government. Look, we're actually in some sort of time-consuming situation right now. We note that we are the only country to sign a fiscal pact that has not yet adopted a fiscal rule law. When we are in time trouble, there is certainly a danger that solutions will not be optimal, of course, marriage solutions. There is a fear here, especially on our opposition side, that, in our own words, the government will lead us through the water. That is why we expect that all of us here together, if the interest of the government and this coalition is that this law will get 60 votes, that we are really playing honestly, playing with hearts and with open cards. If there's any embarrassment, if there's a matter written between the lines, then we just don't buy it either. Maybe I'll put my word on the Fiscal world myself. I think we can paint it as if the members of the Fiscal Council are actually masters, good masters, to be good masters, who will follow the implementation of the fiscal rule; but, colleagues and colleagues, we, legislators must give these masters a good tool. If these masters – the fiscal world – do not have good tools, you know that the product will not be good either. And we, New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, see right in the exact provisions of the law, in the formulas we see a good tool for these masters, whom we call the Fiscal Council in the law. And I ask you to take this into account in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance of Dr Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I have to say, I've forgotten something before, and then I'd like to say that I don't want to leave it unanswered. First of all, another issue has come up regarding the inclusion of Sid's debt in the country's debt. I must say that this issue has also been raised in the media. This is because the SID, on the one hand, owes itself, invests on the other hand and is as a financial intermediary in this role. We, together with statistics, say the Statistical Office of Slovenia and Eurostat, have been cleaning up or such a debt, which is essentially a debt, where it is a financial institution, by any logic can be held in public debt by the State, because the state has not committed itself, but it has been for other purposes. In this regard, the position on the Slovenian side has so far been strong enough that it cannot go into public debt. What Eurostat will eventually do is we don't know, because Eurostat's word will be the last, the main one, but I think – I don't see the real logic in this, I'm going to very frankly say that the debt of the financial institution would just be a public debt. And the other thing is about the Fiscal Council. Our thinking was like I said before. So we have three members, the president must be at least 20% employed; and he must be. Thus, we have actually felt that it would be good to have a full-time job, for example, another 20% somewhere in another institution, where it is involved in continuous work or in continuous exploration of the area – as we have also defined those areas for which it is responsible in the Fiscal Council. Thus, from this point of view, the President, who will have much more work to do with the functioning of the Fiscal Council itself, must be at least so busy, we expect 100%. For the other two, we somehow expect that they will be involved in professional work, not only in the Fiscal Council, but that they will be, or in some institution where this is happening all the time, and are experts in this area: whether they are in some research institution, whether they are at a university, or whether they are somewhere abroad, where they are part of – because they do not need to be Slovenians, they may also be foreigners who are experts in this field, and we want them to bring all these knowledge to the Fiscal Council afterwards. We do not want to be employed here, for example, administratively employed, but open professionals. That's why we thought it was the right solution. Now, if that's really ideal, we're open to counter arguments. With regard to what you have said, Mr Horvat, I assure you that we do not want to transport anyone thirsty across the water and that we want to write it down in such a way that it is clear and equally understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 30, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 1. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is for the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on instruction and professional education. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the representative of the proposed bill a word, Mr Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! In the SDS Group, we have once again tabled the amendment to the Vocational and Professional Education Act with the aim of linking the educational system as much as possible with the needs of trade and economy. As has already been said, this is our second attempt because, on the basis of proposals and positive comments, we tried to make this law even more viable when we presented a rather similar law a year ago. The fact is that we have been talking for a long time in Slovenia about the urgent connection of the vocational and professional educational process with trade and economy; in particular, we are talking, very little or nothing. In addition, in recent years we have seen a particularly low enrolment in vocational secondary schools, and in addition an additional poor economic situation, a volatile tax and social policy, and the collapse of many companies in recent years have led to a decline in employers' interest in vocational education, while at the same time leading to a decline in the reputation of certain professions. Certain professions have almost disappeared from our offer due to faults in the education system. At the same time, we are also facing a great deal of structural unemployment for young people, and many young people are dealing with these acquired professions with the belly for bread in countries where trades, economy and young people are more favoured. What is the dual system we propose? It is a combination of apprenticeships, i.e. practical work in the company, and vocational education in the school. We have put this system in place years ago, and today it is the most successful implementation in Germany and Austria. Moreover, a comparative analysis of vocational and vocational education systems in European countries shows that there is a trend everywhere to strengthen trade, economy and vocational education integration. Slovenian employers, on the other hand, often grumble that, due to the lack of practical experience of young people, they have problems with their introduction into work processes. Some of the key components of this law: the essence of the dual system is that the employer assumes responsibility for the apprentice, so a culture of good staff education is established. The apprenticeship relationship is concluded by means of a apprenticeship contract between the employer and the apprentice; the law also specifies the conditions for the employer and the duties of both the employer and the apprentice. The law shall add the period required for practical training. The period covers half of the educational time for vocational schools and 20% for vocational schools. During the duration of this apprenticeship relationship, the apprentice shall have all health insurance rights and pension and disability insurance in accordance with Slovenian legislation. The law will also allow modularity according to the programme and institution; even more, the hours spent by the apprentice during practical training with the employer shall be taken into account as hours of working experience and shall be considered during working hours. At the time of apprenticeship, the apprentice has the right to a prize. However, in the SDS Group, we are aware that this law has quite a financial impact, so we are putting it into effect in 2016. So the time to adjust is more than enough. By 2020, the prize will be paid to the apprentices in full by the State and their prize will be provided through European funds. Such models exist in other European countries. After 2020, 50% of the prize is paid by the State and 50% by the employer. The State shall also pay a contribution to the performance of these examinations to the performance of master's examinations and performance examinations. More than that, and for starters, only that we hope, believe and expect that, because of these incentives within the law, which should also be followed by tax incentives, companies will prepare apprenticeship programmes and will successfully start restructuring education. Your Honor, this is a complex reason and a law that we have been preparing in the SDS party for quite some time. Because we really want him to see the light of the world, and in particular to make the law applicable both to the educational system and to the employers, especially to the students, we have introduced the law in the SDS Group on a regular basis. However, we also consider that if the law goes into further consideration [[sign for the end of the debate]] a public presentation of opinions, thus gaining as wide a range of views and opinions as possible that would make this law truly useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Stanislavi Setnikar Cankar, Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u90	The President-in-Office, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u91	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable speakers. Allow me to transmit the main findings of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Vocational and Professional Education. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education was tabled by a group of Members for the second time in 2014; for the first time in March 2014. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes that proposal, which is justified by the following. The proposed amendments to the law tabled by the SDS Group in almost identical form as in March 2014 renew the legal system of apprenticeships by compiling, in full and almost unchanged, the section on apprenticeship as regulated by the Professional and Professional Education Act 1996. The implementation of the law between 1996 and 2005 showed that such regulated apprenticeships had not achieved their objectives. The Ministry’s earlier assessment of the Ministry, led by Dr. Milan Zver, showed that appropriate conditions had not been created on the part of employers so that apprenticeships could be properly developed. It should be noted, however, that the legal solutions at the time were also in line with the Labour Relations Act, and this material was excluded from the Labour Relations Act in 2013. The introduction of the apprenticeship system means, on the basis of a changed attitude towards vocational education, as the basic responsibility for apprentice education is transferred from school to the employer. The examples of apprenticeships known by other comparable countries in the European Union, in particular the dual system known in the German-speaking countries of Central Europe, are Austria, Switzerland, Germany, based on the status of apprentice, which is equivalent or at least comparable to the status of worker. This also leads to a legal regulation of the area, which mainly defines the labour issues, obligations and competences of the Chambers as an association of workers and the protection of young people who are trained as apprentices in the workplace. A large-scale initiative is taking place in the European Union, particularly in Germany, in order for the dual system to become more widespread in the Member States of the European Union, and Slovenia has also joined this initiative. Incentives stress that the key advantage of the dual system is the early employment of young people. Wherever apprenticeships are unknown or unknown, we are faced with a surge in youth unemployment. The experience we have in Slovenia since apprenticeship was an integral part of the vocational education system shows that a broad social consensus, in particular among the social partners, and extensive incentives for employers from public funds, is required for the successful functioning of apprenticeship. Discussions with employers’ organisations, particularly the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, have shown that employers are aware of the importance of dual education or apprenticeship at all levels of the educational system, but for the time being they see in this system in particular new obligations for employers – costs – and in particular taking on a high risk, because they would admit minors to work relationships. They point to employers' obligations in the event of an accident, liability to apprentices in the event of a company's difficulties, uncertainty about the remuneration of apprentices, etc., and therefore expect large-scale State incentives or incentives from public funds. The proposed amendment to the law is based on the belief that the issue of apprenticeship can be addressed by amending this law. Contrary to the applicants, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is preparing a proposal for amendments to the Vocational and Vocational Education Act, which opens up the possibility of introducing apprenticeships if the conditions for public funding are met and if the special law or several laws fully regulate the status of the apprentice and the resulting obligations of employers and the State. This concept was also agreed in a partnership dialogue in the preparation of a social agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Primož Hainz will present the position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u94	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Over the past few years, we have met with low enrolment in secondary schools and even more vocational schools. This is accompanied by several unpleasant factors, such as the fact that certain types of work or certain professions have failed. The reasons for this must be the collapse of many companies and the low price for the work done. It is also important that we face the great structural unemployment of young people involved in high school and continue to study sociology, where there is no shortage of labour. At the same time, the economy is facing a shortage of staff in certain professions, which our companies urgently need. Although employment is ensured, as demand for certain professions exceeds supply, there is no interest in education in certain programmes. There remains a discrepancy between the education of job seekers and the needs of the labour market and this mismatch needs to be addressed. Both educational institutions and employers agree. Also in the Desus Group, we believe that it is essential for the education system and the economic sector to be closely linked to the Act on Vocational and Vocational Education. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is essential to seek dialogue with the economy, non-economics and educational systems in order to identify development trends and needs for staff, and to plan such content of educational programmes and the quality of learning outcomes and competences, so that students can be employed immediately after the end of secondary schooling or be able to continue their education and even after the completion of higher education. In our parliamentary group, we agree that employers who practice practical work training can have a major impact on the further development of young people and their successful careers and consequently on their lives. Connecting education and practical training to work is one of the most important areas in which young people are brought into the work process and their employment. Therefore, we Members and Members of Desus do not reject the possibility of reintroducing the so-called dual education system, i.e. the introduction of apprenticeships in vocational and secondary vocational education. We are aware, however, that the mini-reforms need to be taken into account with a sound and planned approach, and in particular the current financial situation, not only in the economy, but also in the public financial capacity of the State to at least co-finance the costs which apprenticeship entails somehow. So we need consensus between the social partners, the systemic regulation of this type of education and the financial capacity of carriers and countries. With regard to the first condition, i.e. consensus, it can be said that it is fulfilled. The recently initialled social agreement contains an agreement to regulate apprenticeships systematically while ensuring stable and long-term funding. It also follows from this agreement that the promotion of vocational and professional education between young employers and parents, in which all social partners should be fully involved, is essential. In particular, promotion is important in the so-called deficit professions. The second condition, the system-wide regulation of this area, of course, requires intervention or regulation in a larger number of laws, i.e. at least in the Labour Relations Act, the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, and probably some third provision should be opened. And the third condition is therefore the ability to finance a dual system, which means to provide funding, irrespective of the source of funding, whether it should be a country or an employer, but according to our assessment at that time this is the greatest problem and perhaps also a reservation to the introduction of apprenticeships in a very short time. In particular, it is up to employers to change their view of employees and in the context of apprenticeships to apprenticeships, because unfortunately in their employees they rarely see added value to their company, for the majority of the workforce represents only more or less the cost. Let me remind you that, in the previous term, we have already dealt with an almost identical proposal for a law, which is dealt with today differs from the previous one in adding the possibility of renting free space and facilities to graduates who, due to their social situation, cannot start their own entrepreneurship. At that time, he was rejected by the Desus Group and once again I stress that we have not opposed it, and we do not now oppose the introduction of apprenticeship. As at that time, we are also wondering whether today's proposed law considers that, in today's current situation, solutions from eighteen years ago are indeed appropriate to be introduced into a completely different economic, financial situation in the country, almost identical in 1996. The apprenticeship system of education has already been known by our country for a period of about ten years between 1996 and 2006. In 2006, this system was abolished by the then government under the direction of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is at the same time proposing the amendment of the law, which is currently under discussion. At that time, it was stated as a reason for the abolition of the dual system that "representatives of the Chamber of Commerce were critical of legal solutions soon after the entry into force of the law, as they expected budgetary resources or other incentives" – i.e. tax reliefs or other forms of incentives – "for those who practice practical training of apprentices". Secondly, "the duly established status of apprentices has also been pointed out by evaluation studies carried out by foreign experts". Because of all the doubts raised about this concrete proposal for the amendment of the law, Members and Members on supporting the law for further consideration will decide after the debate that follows. We do not reject the support but the priorities, we will consider the possibility of modifying this proposal further and, in accordance with the opinion or plans presented by the Government, we will take a final decision on the proposal for a novelty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, dear colleague, dear colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are inclined to discuss topics that would introduce some new quality into education. Acquiring practical knowledge is one of the most important considerations, but the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors is based on an experience that has proved to be completely inappropriate in the past. Since the National Assembly did not address the proposal with minor differences until a few months ago, more precisely at the end of April 2014, in the position of the Group of Members, I repeat some of the key reasons for the proposal. For the applicants remain in the case of the solutions that they once were in the law, the apprenticeship provisions were part of the law from 1996 to 2006, when they were deleted by a completely new law drawn up by the school ministry under the leadership of Minister Milan Zver. The introduction of the 2006 bill states, inter alia, that the dual system introduced by the law implies a special apprenticeship relationship which is not entirely comparable to those in comparable countries where it is a specific form of working relationship. The apprenticeship relationship, with adequate protection of the apprentice in relation to the work done in relation to his education, also provides the apprentice with a minimum award and one and a half years of insurance for three years of apprenticeship. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia were critical of these legal solutions shortly after the entry into force of the law, expecting budgetary resources or other incentives such as tax reliefs or other forms of incentives for those who practice apprentice training. For the incentives that they then mentioned, the proposal was intended to provide up to 70 million a year. The weakness of the proposal is also reflected in its non-compliance with other laws and social partners. The 2006 apprenticeship legal solutions have been in line with at least such an important law, the Labour Relations Act, but the apprenticeship content has been exempted from this law since 2013. In the Group of Social Democrats, we point out that the introduction of the apprenticeship system means a change of attitude towards vocational education, as responsibility for apprentice education is transferred from school to the employer. Examples of apprenticeship, as other countries in the European Union know, in particular the dual system known in the German-speaking countries of Europe, such as Austria, Switzerland or Germany, warn us that this is primarily a question of apprentice status. This status is equivalent or at least comparable to that of the worker. This also results in a requirement for legislation and other legal acts. We further note that the proposal is not in line with the partners it should be with. The experience we have in Slovenia from the period when apprenticeship was an integral part of the vocational education system shows that a consensus between the social partners and large-scale incentives from public funds are needed for the successful functioning of apprenticeship. It appears that employers are aware of the importance of the dual system or apprenticeship at all levels of the educational system, but for the time being they see in this system the new obligations for employers that the system brings to them; such as salaries or awards, contributions, other benefits, teaching equipment, insurance, mentoring and so on, and not additional values that would justify these costs. The bill does not have financial coverage either. As mentioned, we should need up to €70 million annually. For these reasons, we will vote in the Group of Social Democrats against the conclusion that the proposed amendment to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is appropriate for further consideration. As we have already heard in this room, we should not expect a different result if things happen over and over again in the same way, with the same proposals. Therefore, let me conclude with the expression of the expectation that we are referring to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, that it should as soon as possible approach to the development of changes that will, in an appropriate and publicly agreed manner, create conditions for the implementation of such an education method.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Comrades and comrades! We have before us a legislative proposal to help reduce youth unemployment and increase economic activity. This general objective cannot, of course, be challenged. Economic activity in Slovenia was the highest in the euro area in the third quarter of last year, but this is still far from the real growth we were accustomed to before the crisis. The unemployment rate is still unacceptable, even for a republic that had more than 30 years of full employment after the Second War. 9.6% of unemployment by the survey method is a moderate rate for the European and Southern European conditions, but we must not forget that, with over 20% of the unemployment of workers up to the age of 24, measures to promote youth employment in general are essential. The proposer puts his trust in the institution of apprenticeship. As this is the first consideration, this solution must first be defined at the conceptual level and from a political point of view. The question must be answered whether apprenticeship can achieve the objectives of the educational system and who will benefit from the introduction of such a system where public funds will go. The primary objective of secondary education, whether professional, professional or general, is the comprehensive development of young people. From this point of view, in our view, any training in the workplace could only be complemented, but never by a pillar of education. The government in its work correctly notes that the aim of the apprenticeship system in the German-speaking countries is to employ young people as soon as possible. Early employment of young people is, even at a time when the required working time is constantly increasing and when business workers are not able to make real decisions about their working conditions, it is rather an incentive for the comprehensive development of young people. Instead of unilateral guidance, free choice and potential development are needed. The institution that has to take care of this cannot be a hierarchically organised company, an even less craftsmanship workshop. This does not mean, of course, that we want to prevent young people from making their own decisions during education and employment, but that public resources must be directed towards the educational and cultural system, so that social barriers to the free development of young people, namely poverty and unequal living opportunities, must be overcome. Our general view is that pupils must have enough time for compulsory practices, apprenticeships and similar activities so that their broader comprehensive education and development cannot be curtailed. Above all, we note that there is a need to make clear what is a vocational or practical education with which a worker is trained for a wide range of tasks, and what is training for a specific and specific work process of a specific individual employer. Subsidisation of this specific public funding training is out of the question. From a public financial point of view, the proposal foresees an additional form of subsidisation of economic activity. However, since the economy is not a harmonious community of producers, but a conflict of workers and their employees, it is important to ask whose interest such subsidisation is. The answer is clear: in a system where there is no general co-decision between workers and income-sharing where management incomes are sometimes ten times or more higher than workers' expenditure, subsidising the economy means subsidising management and capital owners – i.e. a narrow privileged layer! The proposal doesn't even cover it up. But even clearer is the opinion of the Government – employers, i.e. managers and capital owners, I quote, "waiting for large-scale State incentives or incentives from public funds." That is to say, if we think about it: a privileged minority with a monopoly on organisation of work and income sharing is expecting public money for the training of the labour force, which is the basis of its income and privileges. Let me repeat this part: a privileged minority with a monopoly on work organisation and income sharing is expecting public money for labour training, which is the basis of its income and privileges. Moreover, if I return to that position of the Government, employers see the problem as mainly the wages or rewards for new apprentices, contributions, insurance, accident liabilities, obligations to apprentices in case of company problems and so on. The problem is, in short, that honest work deserves a fair payment. They take on the incomes and privileges of managers of enterprises and establishments and do not take on the task of specific training of the worker for specific tasks. They do not want to assume the normal entrepreneurial risk that all workers are not equally suitable for each job. In the United Left, we do not support the principle of direction that is the basis of this proposal. We also agree with the government's side that the technical solutions are inadequate. Therefore, in our view, the law is not suitable for further consideration. The government has announced that it will prepare its solution on the basis of a initial social agreement, which aims to set a system-wide system of apprenticeships while ensuring stable and long-term funding. In this regard, I repeat: "The objective must be the general development of an individual and the central institution cannot be a hierarchically organised company or a crafts workshop, but a public school and an accompanying institution. Students in vocational schools must receive appropriate general education. Practical education is a normal and necessary part of their education, but they must be given enough time to do so, and they must not be overloaded in any way." Finally, budgetary resources can be allocated only to vocational and professional education, not to the training of a worker for work with a specific employer." Thank you so much for saying that. On my right, I would warn you or ask you next time for a little less giggling and chattering in between, because it is terribly annoying. I guess that's how the professor feels about the cathedral when they talk there in the second, third row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u99	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u100	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Education requires closer integration of theory and practice, especially in secondary education, vocational and vocational education, as well as at higher education levels. Professional, vocational and secondary education play an important role in the development of staff for the development of municipalities, regions and countries. We advocate linking theory with practice and achieving higher levels of knowledge. Christian Democrats are far from alone in this belief, but currently Slovenian professional and vocational education is far from those desirable goals. The proposed novelty is going in this direction, so we support the proposed solutions of the Christian Democrats. Applicants want to reconnect the education system and the economy. The link between theoretical education and the acquisition of quality practical competences provides an easier transition between professions, which is now the custom of modern career paths. Lifelong education requires that a person completes a wide range of theoretical knowledge and also acquires as many practical, direct experience as possible. The existing legislation builds on this proposal in such a way as to enable a dual system with the existing system. The latter responsibility for education shall be given to the employer who is raising himself for a reliable future staff, thereby ensuring better quality of production or service. Christian Democrats in this area would recall the good experiences of successful countries such as Germany and Austria, with such or similar educational systems. An increase in the quality of work would directly stimulate economic activity while reducing structural unemployment, as young people would be more likely to opt for education for jobs that would make them easier to work with, as they might already be waiting for their jobs during and after school. It would be difficult for companies to pay the prizes for apprentices and mentors at this time, so the applicant will transfer this responsibility to a country which, with subsidies, would encourage employers to take an interest in the implementation of education, which can be covered by the successful use of European funds. The proposal provides for the gradual introduction of a dual system where the current and dual system would actually coexist for some time. The dual system will be very likely to be implemented in particular where successful companies and companies are also asking for certain professional profiles. This would also have a positive impact on the reputation of these professions and on the increased employability of young people. It is expected that companies will develop apprenticeship programmes and successfully start restructuring education as a result of incentives, which should also be followed by tax incentives. A very important solution is to allow apprentices to be considered during working hours, which will be an additional incentive for young people to decide on vocational education and to make regular progress from year to year. The new Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is in line with the programme of Christian Democrats, and we will support it as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u102	Your Honor! We have seen these days the call of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia to re-establish a dual system of vocational education. From their call, it was also possible to understand the indication that they would seek to re-establish it in agreement with the competent ministry. The Act on Vocational and Vocational Education was adopted in 1996. As the Minister has already said, the adequacy of the dual system has been assessed in the framework of the Phare Mocca programme, where studies have highlighted the inadequate exercise of apprentice status and the need for a thorough modernisation of educational programmes for the acquisition of secondary and secondary vocational education. The implementation of this law by 2005 showed that such regulated apprenticeships had not achieved their objectives. At that time, the Ministry considered that the relevant conditions on the part of employers had not been created so that apprenticeship could take place properly. Therefore, in 2006 the then competent minister with the new Vocational and Vocational Education Act abolished the special status of the apprentice in the dual education programmes and instead introduced an individual and collective learning contract. The proposed amendment to the law renews the legal system of apprenticeships by fully and almost unalteringly summarizing the section on apprenticeships, as set out in the Professional and Professional Education Act 1996. And almost the same proposal as we are considering today, the SDS Group tabled it in March last year and was rejected by the National Assembly. However, it should be pointed out that the 1996 legal solutions were also in line with the Labour Relations Act, and in 2013 this material was removed from the law. The introduction of the apprenticeship system means, on the basis of a changed attitude towards vocational education, as the basic responsibility for apprentice education is transferred from school to the employer. The examples of apprenticeships known by other comparable countries in the European Union, in particular the dual system known in the German-speaking countries of Central Europe, remind us that this is primarily a question of apprentice status, which is equivalent or at least comparable to the status of worker. This also leads to a legal regulation of an area other than school law. A large-scale initiative is taking place in the European Union, in particular from Germany, in order for the dual system to be implemented more broadly in the Member States of the European Union. Slovenia has also joined this initiative. The key advantage of the dual system is the early employment of young people, and everywhere where apprenticeships are unknown or unknown, we are faced with the surge in youth unemployment. The proposed amendment is based on an erroneous belief that the whole issue of apprenticeship can be addressed by amending this law. The competent ministries continue with the planned introduction of apprenticeships and seek in particular answers to questions related to the status of young people who would work in addition to schooling, meaning that apprentices would be in some way in a working relationship. This means, of course, that, together with the social partners, there will be a consensus on the strategy for the development of vocational education at least by 2020 and a specific law on apprenticeships. I therefore stress here that the proposal for a novel is not in line with the social partners. The financial implications of the proposed novels are also not aligned with the ability of the budgets adopted, nor with the envisaged European funds in the new, multiannual financial framework by 2020. All of these are the reasons why we will not support the proposal for a new law in the Alliance. However, we expect the competent ministry to continue to prepare for amendments to the Vocational and Professional Education Act, which will regulate this area more comprehensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Kotnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u104	Dear colleagues, my friend! The SMC Group advocates changes in vocational and professional education. This education would allow for a faster and better response to labour market needs and, subject to certain conditions, would also introduce a apprenticeship system. This in the area of education and education is not the least part of our coalition contract, namely the upgrading of the starting points for the planning of vocational and vocational education programmes and, at the same time, the improvement in quality and attractiveness. The Treaty also envisages the introduction of different models of practical training during education and the renewal of the dual education system and the introduction of apprenticeships based on the employment status of apprentices. The proposed amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education submitted by the Applicant are designed to introduce a dual education system with a view to integrating the educational system and the economy or the labour market. The SMC agrees with the opinion of the bill's proponent, namely that Slovenian vocational education is facing problems such as the years of decline in enrolment and interest in vocational education, as well as the problem of deficit jobs and the under-relationship of education programmes with the labour market. On the other hand, we believe that the proposed amendment to the law is based on an erroneous belief that the whole issue of apprenticeship can be addressed by amending this law. First time. The introduction of the apprenticeship system means, on the basis of a changed attitude towards vocational education, as the basic responsibility for apprentice education is transferred from school to the employer. This means that changes to the law should also be aligned with labour legislation. Examples of apprenticeships, such as those of regulated countries such as Austria or Germany, are based on the uniform status of apprentices with the status of worker, which also stems from the legal regulation of an area defining mainly labour matters. Another time. A broad consensus with civil society stakeholders is needed for the successful functioning of the apprenticeship system, in particular with representatives of employers' organisations. Issues such as the renewal of educational programmes, the conditions for the implementation of apprenticeships, measures to encourage employers must be coordinated with employers' representatives or chambers as their associations. Third time. It is important that, in order to be able to introduce apprenticeships, the conditions relating to funding and public funds must be met and the status of apprentices fully regulated in the specific law. The financial implications foreseen by the proposed amendment of the law do not have a real basis in the budgets adopted. The proposed law also partially touches on some other issues, such as student rights and educational action. In view of the shortcomings described, the SMC Group does not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, while at the same time the Group of Members considers that the renewal of the vocational education system, which opens up the possibility of the introduction of apprenticeships, is necessary and necessary in compliance with the conditions for funding and public funds and regulated apprenticeship status.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister! Extremely high levels of youth unemployment in Europe require immediate action by Member States. One of the priorities is certainly to respond more to labour market needs and to provide young people with a smooth transition from education to employment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party at this meeting, we propose two laws which, on the one hand, promote the employment of young people and, on the other hand, the proposal on amendments and additions to the Vocational and Vocational Education Act makes it possible to have a greater response to the needs of the labour market. It does not need to be emphasized that we are all aware that we are limping in the area of the integration of the education system and the economy. We all want to increase the employment activity of young people, while at the same time providing staff for work in companies and crafts. With the proposed amendments to the Vocational and Vocational Education Act, we want to upgrade the existing legislation in this area in a way that enables the so-called dual system in the current education system. This means that the employer himself raises a reliable future cadre and thus ensures the quality of his own production or service. The proposed amendments to the law allow for the co-existence of both the current education system and the future dual system. The dual system will be implemented primarily where we have successful companies, which at the same time means raising the reputation of certain professions that are not popular or not well known among young people today. At the same time, apprentices will be allowed to take into account their time of practical education at work, which will be an additional incentive for young people to decide on vocational education. The economic crisis, the employment crisis and the decline in competitiveness have not so strongly reflected in countries with good vocational education. In countries with established vocational education and training systems such as Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria, youth unemployment is lower. This conclusion is confirmed by the European Commission already in 2013 in the Employment and Social Situations Review in Europe, which shows that apprenticeships and traineeships are often a jumping board for permanent employment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that apprenticeship is an opportunity today. At the same time, the European Union has made substantial resources available for this. In 2013, the European Commission launched the European Training Coalition, which will help combat youth unemployment by improving the quality and offer of apprenticeships in the European Union. In doing so, they called on all stakeholders to join the European Training Coalition and contribute to more compulsory and better apprenticeship in Europe. Due to the situation in the field of vocational education in Slovenia and also due to the positive attitude of the EU towards apprenticeship, as more and more European funds are being allocated for the development and financing of apprenticeships, the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled a similar text of the law on vocational education in March 2014 at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek. Today, at the time of the Government of Mira Cerar, we would expect that the government that advocates greater employment for young people, for greater integration of education and the economy, today when the Minister of Education believes in the success of the dual system, that this government coalition will better understand the apprenticeship system and its importance, in particular the importance that the European Union devotes to this issue, both at the principal level and with financial incentives. That is why it is so much more surprising for the government to argue that the law tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party is incomplete and that the Government has better ideas and, above all, more comprehensive solutions. So far, marriage solutions on vocational education have been a good basis, but not enough for today, and key solutions have been complemented. Different awards are arranged for apprentices and their time, broken in the workplace, is considered during working hours. The proposal also introduces the possibility of apprenticeship for adult unemployed persons and introduces the possibility of continuing practical work despite a negative assessment in the theoretical work it has the opportunity to correct by the end of schooling. The dual system allows young people to see the meaning of education. They will see a particular point when they are satisfied with their chosen course of education and when they have the opportunity to work after finishing their studies or schooling. At the same time, this also means reducing the number of fictitiously enrolled in education systems for the country. A few days ago, on the Committee on the Work of the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we took note of the report by UNICEF and the Institute for Social Protection of Slovenia. Both documents point to an increase in child poverty and an increase in the number of unemployed young people aged between 15 and 24. We received suggestions or recommendations in the reports that could change the alarming situation. One of them is the introduction of various forms of apprenticeship. These organisations also believe that apprenticeship plays a key role in the fight against youth unemployment as young people acquire the skills and experience that employers seek. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that there will not be too many words in terms of: we agree, we support the dual system, we are aware, we will examine, we will propose a better solution, a more systematic solution. Because time is running out, unemployment among young people is rising, many young people are going abroad because of the inability to work in Slovenia. Therefore, we will certainly support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members in general. Mr Tomaž Lisec, the proposer, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Most of the views of the parliamentary groups, in particular those who a priori oppose the proposal of the law, followed the Government's view. I have before me a document, April 22, 2014 – the opinion of the Government. And I have a document, 22. 1. 2015 – Government opinion. 9 months of difference and almost identical document. Except they have even so confirmed that they have written that a group of Members is entering into law for the second time. Everything else is the same. Ladies and gentlemen, last year we said: we need elections, we need changes. Elections have taken place, 60 Members are new, only two ministers, I think they are the same as in the previous government, everyone else is new – and the same document! Because they are the same officials who have both written down, I quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will submit to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law that will properly regulate the topic submitted." Same: 22 April 2014 and 22. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Of course, all the parliamentary groups, particularly the coalitions, take this opinion into account in detail, which I will say again, that the government or, above all, government officials – obviously, the Minister, who follows them blindly, unfortunately – are against another law, because she is the SDS's proponent, but they do not state their solutions. Your solution is that someday there will be a law that will fix all of this. However, the SDS proposal is poor because the SDS proposal. At the end of this session, we will probably be back in the SDS on how to fight ideologically, because we are opening up issues in the field of justice, in the field of media, in the field of education, in the field of the economy. No! No! This government, which is so much for ethics, morality, cooperation, is against it. For one reason only; not because the law is non-systematic, unconsistent and I do not know what it is, because it is the SDS's proponent. In the introduction, I said, unlike the coalition that adopts those few laws after a reduced procedure – look at the area of justice, reform after a reduced procedure – we are going to the first hearing. I have announced that if the proposal is adopted today to move forward, we will propose a public debate, so within this national assembly we will be able to invite tradesmen, economists, people from the education system, and probably someone else, perhaps one from Austria or Germany, to explain to you how this works for them, and we cannot do so because officials at the ministry have decided that no matter should change for 25 years, no matter should be removed, rather than a new one. In short, Minister, it's sad to have you sign a document that's identical, three or four words I found that are different, as I said before, because it says that the second time we proposed. And why did we propose next time? I read again, Madam Minister, that it will be easier for you to go home: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will submit to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law that will properly regulate the proposed topic." It's gonna be a figo! Because it's a copy-paste 9-month paper. And what happened? In 2014, you wrote down how you are meeting, and now you have written down how you are meeting with all the stakeholders. I really want to know where the bill is. He won't be here! I guarantee it! Now, before I go to the government's opinion in detail, I am slowly dissecting it, but allow me to respect Desus' opinion, but unlike everyone else today, they are not against it. They said they would see what and how during the discussions. I hope that the majority of Desus Members come from the real sector, unlike their colleagues from the United Left, to whom I want as much exercise in the real sector as possible, not in some punk organisations, but in the real sector. I want those of you who have come from the real sector to Parliament by Desus to support this law. Today's the first time. We can have a public hearing. Second reading. I think the reasons and the time to do this are more than enough. Moreover, unlike the Minister, who is in the field of apprenticeship 5. 1. notify all that with 1. 1. But something is true, we have stretched the time component here. We said the law was due to enter into force in 2016. Also regarding financial resources, Madam Minister. We said, from 2016 to 2020, everything is paid by the state. Yeah. Why? Because European funds are available! How can Austria, Germany and the other countries draw on European funds for this purpose, and we cannot, whether we know or cannot, Madam Minister? All three sentences are likely to be valid. We don't know, and obviously you can't. Then the SD party. Of course, the financial consequences. Their Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs always boasts that Europe is a virtuous lady, where funds can be drawn, but apparently the Minister of Labour can find some mechanisms and can find at least a share of these European funds to bring them into the country. Apparently, Minister, you and your officers don't know that, you can't or you can't. As I have already said about the United Left, I allow them as much apprenticeship in the real sector as possible, and fortunately for them we are still in the Republic of Slovenia, not in Venezuela, where work is still respected. As for the gradual. [[Incomprehensible]] I said, from 2016 to 2020 – country. Neither do we as proponents expect it to be with 1. 1. 2016 the apprenticeship has flooded our Republic of Slovenia and will melt the types immediately. We know how many students we have; we have fewer and fewer students. We believe that by 2020, when this funding is to be coordinated somehow, 50% of the countries and 50% of the employers will be able to prepare some new legislation if the system is not optimal. We can prepare. We can prepare it if you can't prepare it at the Ministry. No obstacles. Now allow a few more sentences from the government's opinion. The government, which is preparing an identical opinion within nine months, says: "Proposed amendments to the law tabled by the SDS parliamentary group in almost identical form as in March 2013." Ladies and gentlemen, your officials at the Ministry have not done their homework entirely. There are some new issues, but apparently some prefer to ascribe, give copies of the pasta and the homework was done. You wrote: "The introduction of the apprenticeship system means a changed attitude towards vocational education, as the basic responsibility for apprentice education is transferred from school to the employer." You say that this system is not a good one, but to change the concept – of course not, or you will someday, when you are two years from now, when we re- table the same law, write down again how the government will submit a bill that is appropriate for the legislative process. So it's like you don't want to change the system or put it on the shoulders of your officials who won't do their job again. You yourself wrote, quote: "In the European Union, there is a large-scale initiative, in particular Germany, to put the system in place more broadly within the EU. Slovenia has also joined this initiative." How, Madam Secretary? You nodded, and you said we're in, too, but we're against the law. "Incentives point out that the key advantage of the dual system is the early employment of young people..." - And you're obviously against it. "Where apprenticeship is unknown or unknown, we are faced with the surge in youth unemployment." And the Minister doesn't have a solution! I propose, Madam Minister, but I hope that there will be no problem, and that your ministerial colleague, Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, will not have problems, because at least it is partly effective in this area, go to one coalition coordination in this area, not just in other areas. Then you wrote: "The proposed amendment to the law is based on the mistaken belief that it is possible to regulate the whole issue of apprenticeship by amending this law." But on the other hand, you tell us that from the 1996 law we took the matter out and moved it! Now you're saying that's not the whole issue of apprenticeship. And as still, you wrote once again that " contrary to the motions, the Ministry is preparing a proposal for amendments to the law". I am really interested in which drawer in which section of whose office is this bill that will save the apprenticeship system. If one law is resolved, such as our proposal, the problem is to make five laws regulate the system of apprenticeships, as we did in the case of traineeships, again, the problem would be the system or proposal of law. Of course, he was non-systematic, because he was the wrong proponent. Then the key point is that the financial implications foreseen by the proposed amendment of the law do not have a real basis either in the existing adopted budgets or in the envisaged European Cohesion Funds. The easiest thing to say is that the money isn't, it can't be done, but the case is closed. If you think that way, it is absolutely without any connection that you have written down, I will quote once again the last sentence: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will put in a legislative procedure a bill that will adequately resolve......" This is your love of apprenticeship, as much as it is, obviously ends with the issue of finance. Moreover, given that your officials have obviously not read the law, it has been written in the same opinion for nine months: "The signs of an increase in the so-called fictitious entry are said. In schools at all levels of the educational system, candidates who do not intend to apply the obligation under the educational programme shall be enrolled." Tell me one student at a vocational and vocational school who will have to give through the apprenticeship programme that he is not interested in completing the education system! Maybe college students. And I'm not going to mention them, because I'm probably coming from that college that's very problematic, where we were or were until there was no Bologna system, 20% in classrooms, 80% in the home or one floor below in the restaurant or in the cafeteria. But to write that the problem is a fictitious entry, but here we have a proposal for a law that makes a commitment to the school system, employers and young people that in the case of vocational education there are 50% and in the case of vocational education there are 20% of them in the employer, they have a apprenticeship contract – it is all written down in the bill – and this will not solve the fictitious entry! So, is there such a general opinion that I could draw from this that young people who will work for themselves or for themselves during the school education system, the process, work for themselves or for themselves, or what? I really don't understand your writing. And once again, I hope for the last time, "...the Ministry has prepared work materials to amend and supplement the law..." — the same entry entered on 24 April 2014 and the same entry entered on 22 January 2015. And the other government, and the six new Members, but unfortunately, the same officials will not change. Perhaps, though, if a law is written by a law firm, it is obvious that a respected minister has a well - written name in a lawyer’s office and will write down a bill for the right price — how is it written? - "a comprehensive and systematic solution to this area." In short, the Honourable Minister, yes, but not with the attitude of officials who make copies of the government's opinions and say that everything will be settled. Such thinking, Madam Minister, and above all your officials, with such thinking, will not resolve matters in the field of apprenticeship in particular. Unfortunately. And we will still talk about how great they have this solved in Austria, how great they have this set up in Germany, how they can draw on European funds – they obviously know. We obviously don't know, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Franco Jursch, please. Get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u110	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the Minister with a co-worker, including colleagues and colleagues, of course! When I listened to these views of the parliamentary groups and also now the debater, the representative of the proposalr, I have some questions coming up. I must say that we will not talk here about the Group of Members, I will not speak here strictly about the law itself, I will talk here about some of my personal thoughts. So I'm gonna start by saying one thing. I was very interested in the debate on this side and it was very interesting for me to have a discussion on this side; it was too politicised. The apprenticeship, the profession, the profit of people, life is not just politics, much more, and this problem should be viewed from a completely different perspective. And I started to think: there's never been as many doctors of science here as there is now. [[…]] Why am I saying this? Maybe one of these science doctors went through the apprenticeship system. Once upon a time, there was a gentleman sitting on that chair, who through such a system reached the title of Doctor of Science. What else leads me to this thinking to talk about it? Above all, at one time, parents taught their children from the parable: Learn how to work. Some time ago, however, parents taught their children: Learn that you will not have to work. Of course, it was in a way a parent’s guidance to their children, for in some ways they thought if they completed an education, that then they would simply and simply not have to work. Through the learning processes we have produced an endless number of high school graduates, economic technicians and other professions, which were once able to be employed and employed, at this point and now this is no longer possible. A little something to refresh your memory. We had a marriage, we had a marriage, and in some way this marriage was abolished — colleague Lisec left, I wanted to remind him when it was and when it happened: 2006. And I'm not making a drama out of this right now, but so much so that we don't act so politically and talk and judge. And I'm not defending the Ministry or the Minister right now. You know what? I like this system, but I will tell you some other problems, which are also related to the need to resolve matters so that we can get some quality legislation. I also remember my apprenticeship in the past in another country in which we want it together, but we did not then wonder whether it would be subsidised by the State or by who; whether it would go to pension insurance or not. She didn't go, she was a prize, she was modest, because we could live modestly. Maybe this is where things need to be worked out and thought. Today we will probably all discuss three segments: one is consensus with the social partners, we probably don't, then there are national incentives, and of course the government will say, as the Prleki would say, "I don't have money I can't give". That means there's no money, which I kind of understand. Of course, these independent entrepreneurs and companies, who are supposed to have apprenticeships, are kind of expecting that. They didn't expect it in the past, and they didn't get it. This is where we need to find the appropriate consensus. If I heard correctly and you remembered correctly, the president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry said he supported this system. Well, given that we probably won't be able to find ourselves in a joint boat with the government, I would suggest, however, that we don't stay at this point, that we build the matter up and bring it to an end. I think and I am sure that this system would also be useful in Slovenia, very useful. Look, we have some professions, little jobs, if he's gonna go look for some plumbers and so on, you just can't find them in the field. You have to be very lucky to get into some kind of profession that, for example, might help you at a certain point in time. That's why we miss them. Personally, I miss them. And there's one more thing I'd like to remind you of. When we were in a great economic boom, during a time of fat cows or conjuncture, our entrepreneurs on the ground were literally complaining that they didn't have wood cutters, tillers, no metal cutters, and so on and so on. It is therefore possible now to have an ideal opportunity, at a time when there is simply and simply more labour, to prepare ourselves for a time when we will actually start to live in some other way, without an economic crisis, of course with economic development. Then we will have a simple and simple lack of these professions. I had the opportunity to talk at the Austrian-Slovenian border with some individuals who told me that there was an incentive in Austria. For example, for the apprentice of the third class of the apprenticeship, there are thousands of €700 in the third class. To me, that number was astronomical. I haven't checked this number, I think it's a little excessive; it's given to a citizen of the Republic of Austria. They know why. And those with such professions are well stimulated, well paid. But we turned things upside down, we didn't pay the masters well, we just paid the good of someone else who worked for some and after some of the more important works. These works are very important, and in this direction I would suggest that we be united, that we work in the interests of the State and that we are actually trying to resolve this issue together in some way with all the elements necessary for the adoption of a good law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mrs. Ivy Dimic, to prepare the mag. Claudius Marquez.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What Mr Jurša, or earlier my colleague Lisec, has pointed out to such a previous speaker, that two different governments, two identical opinions, I think it gives an answer to who is leading the governments. Maybe a few more years ago, and it would probably be the same opinion. But I would like to draw attention to what we are reminded of by all craftsmen, entrepreneurs, economists, as Members of the New Slovenia we meet on the ground. To get the staff, I can say professionally educated students. Somehow I would point out four electrical directions, forestry, metal industry, and the building chiropractors could also say the economic techniques mentioned earlier. When they come to first practice or when they try to hire, they simply lack knowledge and are useless to such craftsmen. He even said that a gentleman who has a long-established power company, an installation that such a student must be further trained for three years. It's actually almost too long for him, because he's looking for a job on the market and he has to follow it. I can say that the carpenters or, if I say otherwise, the masons say they get very well-trained staff who can make beautiful windows and doors, but they can't manage SMC devices. This has also been demonstrated by the media that the wood industry, as far as we have it in Slovenia, does not have sufficient or adequately qualified personnel to work with modern machines. If I mention the metal industry, we're still looking for good welders. These are also lacking in Slovenia. And if I mention at the end of the economic technique, well-educated, well-educated, well-educated, but accounting houses say, undereducated, undereducated. If we had such an educational system where apprenticeship would be possible or where more practice and greater involvement of masters and employers would in some way be ensured, I am sure that we would have, in addition to being very well-reviewed, also technically very good workers. And there's something else I'd like to point out. We're talking about some general education. I don't know how much you know of today's young people who are educated in vocational schools. They want to work in the profession for which they are educated as soon as possible and as best possible. They have no desire for some long - term education, difficult education, they want to do as soon as possible, and they want to do it as best they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Claudius Markež, prepare the mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u114	Nicely welcomed again from my side. Mrs. Dimiceva gave me a lead. I come from this area alone, and I will return to this subject later. I would like to point out that I do not know whether you want to understand or not to listen to us, but I would like to reiterate that we are in favour of changing vocational and professional education in our school system. We strongly support the apprenticeship system, because we know good, excellent practices, especially Denmark, Austria and the Scandinavian countries. I must say that all the analyses show that they have an effective impact on economic growth, on GDP growth. In fact, I would like to begin the implementation of apprenticeships in our school system as soon as possible yesterday. But we're telling you all the time, the problem is deeper in the sense that we can't solve everything with the Vocational and Vocational Education Act. We need a more detailed law in dialogue with the social partners, which will not impose all burdens on the employer again, because we know that the status of a student of a minor with apprenticeship changes here and it is necessary to define who will bear these consequences. And don't think about being fully carried by your employer. A while ago, I was employed in a large company dealing with welders and pipes. This is a company that has self-employed and educated welders and tubers, where I have to point out that our school system does not actually have a professional standard for piper yet, even though such demand for this profession is relatively well paid, but our school system does not. What am I trying to say? That this economic company invests enormous resources each year to train professional staff, especially young people, and also greatly to promote these professions, employ them, not least learn them, they are given the opportunity to use all machines, devices and everything that is needed. We have also started inter-resorting with the Ministry, with the Chambers, so let me tell you, there is a need for a wider consensus, the social partners need to be included, chambers, somehow following good practices from abroad, not least to implement this into our domestic environment. We can't just solve this with the Vocational and Vocational Education Act. Doesn't mean we don't support your idea. It's a great idea. As I said at the outset, we should have implemented it long ago, because we can really influence our economic growth this way. I am also in favour of the introduction of apprenticeship, I think it is absolutely necessary. There's something else. You ever wonder what it's like to be aware of these professions? I believe that it is necessary to go back a little bit, even during the preschool period of our children, and to start already in kindergartens by bringing their professions closer to them, not all in higher education and the like, but that these classical professions that we need, which are employed in our economy, are not least needed, respected and can actually be of these professions with their own work to live normally and nicely, that this work is also a value. However, I would really like to say that we must be aware that the introduction of this apprenticeship system means, on the basis of a changed attitude towards vocational education. In this case, the fundamental responsibility is transferred from school to the employer. The apprentice is no longer a high school student at the moment, but he is an apprentice at the company. And we can't put that burden on the employer here. Employers give them, after all, material conditions, they teach them, they are mentors, they also enable them to work late, but all the costs of paying contributions, insurance, safety and health at work, I think food and it's like a purely sideline, the reward at work, it seems more important to motivate the company in an appropriate way to be prepared to deal with these children, because we are talking about minors. You need to know something, a company that fights in a market that wants to be competitive, believe that it is not his main interest to teach these students. Because it's hindering his manufacturing process. It was kind of waving whether we admit it or not. However, they are prepared to join us in some social dialogue with a view to constructive cooperation and to carry out this story. As far as I am aware, our chambers as well, the social partners point out that they want to participate in a comprehensive system of regulating the conditions for possible gradual reinstatement of apprenticeships in the Slovenian educational system, but stress that this should be actively involved in the development of appropriate solutions in our new legislation. They must also actively participate in the preparation of these measures. Once again, we are not against the proposal, but it needs to be further defined and systematically regulated. Above all, this burden, what is the status of apprentice, who actually bears the obligations arising from it. The problem needs to be solved vertically, not just from one perspective. And indeed, I am aware of the complexity of this area, we support, but we cannot support the law as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Jani Jenko, get Mrs. Maria Bachič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. It's a nice greeting for everyone! It's hard to learn if you don't know what it looks like in practice. This has been experienced by almost everyone sitting in here. During his schooling, he was learning something and he did not know how to use it in practice, what it looks like. That is why I strongly support the introduction of practice into the learning system. In Slovenia, there are currently less than 6% of students in programmes with more than 25% of practical training in companies. That's an extraordinary little thing. Schools, educational programs train students or young people who are practically educated but without work experience, without practice. When I look at invitations at the institution, almost every invitation to tender contains desirable so many and so many practical experiences Where can young people get them if they are only educated but have no practical insight into the work or look into the work that they will later manage? That's why I don't understand craftsmen here, otherwise they support practice, but somehow they expect the country to finance everything again. That's not working out for me. I'd rather hire someone myself who would put him into business during education. For me, apprenticeship is a process between theoretical knowledge, practical work and the qualities of the candidate or apprentice. In particular, the characteristics of someone’s ability to do a job are important, and this would be seen very quickly in the course of education and in the process of practical training. In doing so, the employer would have the opportunity or the apprenticeship in practice, or he could see immediately that he does not have the specific skills that he would then need in his work. Employers may also not be aware enough of the need for qualified personnel. The main purpose of the school is to provide theoretical knowledge. Some vocational schools also have some practical training, but given the lack of space it is very difficult to provide all practice for all the profiles at school. Here I place a warm deposit on employers to sacrifice somehow some time for training and perhaps even a few more resources, and the country will certainly come to them in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Marija Bachič, to prepare Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u118	Mr Vice-President, Honourable Director, Members and Members of Parliament! As a Member, I come from a border area and accept the debate on apprenticeship in particular with a view to ensuring such conditions allowing young people to carry out their work in Slovenia. Today, according to some data across the border to Austria, there are about seven thousand people going to work, and during the crisis, the motive for leaving is only increasing. The discussions on apprenticeships, which have already been held in this Chamber in the past, tended to be produced into general judgments on vocational education and even turned into some sort of little ideological conflict. We often hear that vocational education is not responsive to the needs of the economy and is of poor quality. I cannot agree with such assessments alone, even though support for the introduction of more practice into the education system is our common objective. That everything is not so black, we are reminded of the frequent good news about the excellent rankings of our students in international competitions. Unemployment is also significantly lower in the group of those with vocational or higher education. The link between education and work today exists not only within formal education but also through projects, groups, workshops. Let us only recall the inter-enterprise educational centres that are part of the Vocational and Vocational Education Act or the Youth Guarantee, which is a programme aimed at integrating measures that promote creativity, entrepreneurship, innovation among young people. Among other things, there are measures that will more effectively link the education system to the labour market, promote the realization of the entrepreneurial idea in young people and thus facilitate their journey to the world of entrepreneurship. However, apprenticeship can only be successful in full cooperation between educational institutions and the economy. These should be adequately involved in the preparation of a proposal for legislative solutions. This is so much more important due to the conclusion of the applicant, which will be recorded in the introduction. It says, I quote: "We have tried to introduce the so-called dual and school form of educational programmes for the same title of vocational education, but the introduction of dual form failed in particular because the economy did not recognize the need to raise quality professional staff when planning a vision for the development of businesses." End of quote. The proposal is thus not supported by the proposer, apart from the principle findings of the economic needs of the proposals. Finally, let me remind you of one more detail. When the then Minister of Education of the SDS presented the proposed amendments to the Vocational and Professional Education Act in February 2013, it was written in the document at the end of the introduction, and I quote: "We appreciate that more fundamental systemic changes in vocational and professional education are not necessary, but some provisions need to be amended or supplemented." End of quote. At that time, the provisions that are on our bench today, which are identical to the 2014 proposal of the same proposer, were not among the solutions proposed. I would like to point out that I support the proposaler's intention to bring vocational and professional education closer to the economy, as this is the only way to achieve sufficient synergies leading to development. However, after careful consideration of the proposal for a novelty, I believe that this text is not the material with which this synergy could be achieved. At the same time, because of its complexity and its involvement in many segments of our school and economic field, this content needs precise coordination with the social partners, the professional and the general public concerned. I believe that today's novelty is a step in the right direction, because we need this kind of debate, so I do not want my support for the novel to be interpreted as disapproval, but rather as an opportunity for today's debate and any proposal to become the basis for the upgrade to receive the desired and necessary content. I believe that the government will follow this and shortly prepare a new bill that will soon be turned on here in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Vesna Vervega, to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! Let me start with the text in the coalition contract. "We will renovate the dual education system and introduce a apprenticeship based on the apprentice's employment status." Then why can't we support this marriage? Some fellow Members have already explained the main arguments for this and I will only touch on some of the particulars in the proposed law. Applicants state that Slovenian vocational education is facing the problem of a multi-annual decline in vocational and vocational education. The main cause of the decline in enrolment in all secondary education programmes is the lower generation. However, it is very important to move the percentages entered into the different programmes. Data from the Statistical Office of Slovenia show that in 2009 the share of all vocational and vocational education programmes was 59% and in high school 41%. In the following years, the difference increased in favour of vocational and professional education, with a ratio of 62 to 38 in 2013. Therefore, data for the period 2009-2013 thus show that the proportion of students who were educated in all vocational and vocational education programmes is about 40% higher than the proportion of students who were educated in high school programmes. Let me illustrate this with a particular number. In 2013, 47 thousand 224 students were enrolled in vocational and vocational education and 29 thousand 490 were enrolled in the high school programme. In the school year 2014/2015, the percentage of enrolled high school students decreased to 37%. Thus, the proportion of students enrolled in vocational and vocational education programmes is increasing. This is why, in cooperation with the various stakeholders, a strategy for secondary education needs to be developed and an adequate number of seats on all programmes should be identified in the economy. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has already carried out these activities. The next problem highlighted and partially addressed by the applicants is the problem of low-income jobs and youth unemployment. Training and training in the workplace is proposed by the European Commission, as we have already heard, as a key part of the strategy to combat youth unemployment and social exclusion. Promoting integration between work and education has been an important tool on the agenda of European employment policy in recent years. We agree with the proposal that the examples of apprenticeship and dual system, as other European countries know, show that unemployment among young people is lower in these countries and that apprenticeships are often a jumping board for permanent employment, as already stated. The OECD data for Slovenia for 2013 also shows that the unemployment rate of those who completed vocational education programmes in the 25-64 age group is lower than those who completed general high school education. Finally, the proposal for a law exposes the mismatch between education programmes and programmes and labour market needs, which, of course, is true. As we have already heard, we are looking for changes in vocational and professional education that will enable rapid response to labour market needs. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has established professional coordination led by the Minister, with employers, trade unions and other ministries working together to contribute to the establishment of a dual system and coordinate issues such as the renewal of educational programmes, the conditions for the implementation of apprenticeships, measures to encourage employers. Let me finish. Strengthening vocational and professional education is one of the priorities of the ministry in 2015, which is preparing a proposal for amendments to this law in a comprehensive, thorough and systematic manner. Let the head finally harmonise the functioning of individual parts of its body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Jan Mahnic, to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and fellow Members! By submitting a proposal for this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have followed our pre-election education programme, in conjunction with the labour market, where we have written down that we will take part or that we will introduce a dual education system based on the example of some other countries, as you have already found, especially on the example of countries where practice in this area is very positive. As you probably all know, in Slovenia we have the Youth Council of Slovenia, which deals mainly with youth issues. Some publications have been published years ago in various areas, which are particularly attractive for young people, such as participation, employment, housing, education. And I'm just going to read you one recommendation from employment and one from education. It says here: "We call on formal educational institutions to introduce practical training into all educational programmes and curricula for all young people who are educated. At this point, we are working towards the participation of formal educational institutions with employers and non-governmental and in particular youth organisations offering an appropriate field of learning to gain important practical experience. The integration of the education system with employers should also begin with specific tasks, for example through seminars, diplomas, masters, study and study projects that can relate to specific companies and organisations and their tasks or operations." An even longer recommendation, published in the publication on employment: "If Slovenia wants to become a state of development and innovation and a knowledge-based country, the mutual functioning of the education system and the labour market should be encouraged. In order to achieve a greater link between the education system and the labour market, we propose the introduction of the following measures. We call on formal educational institutions to become more integrated with the labour market. On the one hand, this means adapting education programmes and cities to the needs of the labour market for individual programmes. For this purpose, the relevant institutes should develop a long-term employment strategy, taking into account labour market trends projections. The education structure of young people needs to be better adapted to the situation in the labour market and to young people so that they can obtain employment that is compatible with their education. On the other hand, formal educational institutions, in cooperation with the public and economic sectors, must ensure that all users have practical experience in the areas for which they are educated. The integration of the educational system with employers should also begin with specific tasks, for example through seminars, diplomas... " – says here they list everything that was already under the chapter on education and suggest that the practical part of the study be carried out with employers. Both employers and educators should be encouraged to allow young people to cooperate and motivate them to perform their duties with awards, subsidies and the like. So no one here is speaking or not obvious that we have no idea what a bad school system, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we find that there are still many reserves. Of course, we are in favour of autonomy, but we advocate and advocate the fact that universities should be, or when we talk about secondary schools, vocational schools, professional institutions and so on, that these educational institutions should be more connected to employers, so that they should be more connected to the labour market. I cannot agree with my colleagues sitting on the far left when they say that this proposal is not only ours, but also ours, the apprenticeship in general, that it is primarily in the direction that employers get good staff at the expense of the state, that is to say from our common malha, which will then be used to forge enormous profits. This is mainly about young people being educated to be educated, that we will someday have jobs, so we are working for the labour market. And the labour market rightly expects to get the best and the best possible staff, which will then work for the common good, of course, because, finally, the policy of new jobs is the only real social policy. Human resources are reasonably expected to contribute to this. Employers in Slovenia are practically united in the fact that young people come from schools theoretically well entrenched, and then the problem is that practical part. And by doing so, by introducing a dual school system in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this problem would begin to be solved in its very origin. We also proposed this law on the basis of these recommendations of the Youth Council of Slovenia. Despite having many articles, let me just mention some of the changes and proposals that we are introducing, which I think are particularly important. The law adds the required period to be devoted to the practical training of pupils in vocational and secondary vocational schools. The period covers half the time of the vocational education programme and 20% for secondary vocational or vocational schools. The hours spent by the apprentice during practical training with the employer shall be taken into account as hours of working experience for the same or similar profession and shall be considered during working hours, which is particularly important in these times. After this proposal, every eight hours made by the apprentice shall be counted within one working day. The apprentice is allowed to advance to the next year and the smooth course of practical education if he is positively evaluated in theoretical work in all subjects, but can be assessed in two subjects also negatively, but he has to perform the exams in the following year from these two subjects, otherwise the year repeats. If the apprentice is assessed negatively from the same subjects for two years in a row, the year repeats and the remuneration of the employer does not belong to him at the time of repetition. And what's important is the prize we're proposing for the apprentices to win. During the apprenticeship, the apprentice has the right to a prize. The amount of the gross prize by regulation shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a percentage of the average gross wage in the economy of the Republic of Slovenia and shall be at least 10% in the first year and 15% in the second year and 20% in the third year. What I also think is important is that a new 32a article is added for Article 32a, which not only encourages young people who want to engage in entrepreneurship, but also allows them in some way to overcome those first initial problems, as regards working conditions, as far as spaces are concerned, as regards mechanisation and so on. Here we wrote about the development centre: "The school can give its workshops to a graduate of a vocational and professional school, who wants to start a self-sustaining activity in a professional field where he has completed his final examination if he does not have the capacity to carry out his activities, but for a maximum of two years. The school can provide professional support to a graduate in the field of administrative services." So we are still going in this direction, that even after the completion of formal education, there is still contact with this educational institution, which continues to help young people, by providing them with space and, on the other hand, if a contract is concluded, the educational institution can also get some in its budget. Earlier, Mr Jurša had spoken about how they sometimes said that he was learning as much as possible, that you would do as much as possible, and today it would be valid to learn as much as possible that you would not have to work. I come from a generation where our parents have told us this many times. In particular, we were encouraged to join the high schools in a number of ways. It went about the same way for everyone in this direction, "let's learn that you're not gonna be a sissy, you're not gonna be an auto mechanic, you're not gonna be a painter" and what I know who's gonna call everybody else. Today, we see what happened when we all went to high school, when it was a rush to high school and a drastic decline in vocational and vocational education. We have many young people who are unemployed, we have practically lost generations and so on. In our country, there is still, to a degree, still, some, if so expressed, logic in terms of being average, so much to learn, if possible you will get a job somewhere in one company or in the public sector, be conform, there you will be good, you will do what you are told, but God forbid anyone to start anything of theirs. If you have something of your own, you'll hire people, you'll be an ugly capitalist, you'll be a profit taker, and don't let God make any more profit out of it. Unfortunately, this is the logic that translates our country at every step and the rule that the rule of being average is not to stand out in this country has already been established. We believe that this dual school system would improve a lot of things, and I visited a lot of companies in my constituency at the time of the electoral campaign, and many told me that school needs to get some theoretical knowledge to get some breadth, because in the end only practical knowledge is not all, and of course practical knowledge is also needed. When I asked, many agreed with this percentage in the sense that in some countries you are with your employer on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and in school on Thursdays and Fridays. And believe me, someone who would work with an employer who would know the working environment that would work with him knew those working habits so that a lot of young people would get a job on that account. Through this, the traineeship, which we will consider on Friday, is one such way, and even if it is some kind of state contribution, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we believe that this money is an investment in the future, because young people who will be employed will also contribute to the social, pension, health and so on. As it may be heard, the coalition will reject this proposal. I hope that the Minister will join the coalition, given that she also said so at the hearing, and that you have in the coalition contract, as soon as possible, this apprenticeship, so that this matter will be implemented as soon as possible. As I have seen from the debate, we all agree that this matter is necessary. Some would just do it a little differently than others. We filed because you told us that we had made the same or similar marriage, then there was another coalition, now we were trying to make it through. However, I hope that in some way we have at least encouraged you to start thinking in this direction, and even though I repeat myself many times in this national assembly, but I think that in Slovenia this is a problem, that all officials think when a problem arises, it is a line of least resistance, that mistakes are sought, that they should not be made or, as I repeat, in this national assembly, we are primarily working in this country to avoid, but no one takes any initiative or initiative to say, how we will do this in order to go through.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I give the floor, Mrs Ludmili Novak, to prepare myself, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u124	Your Honor, Vice President, thank you for your word. I welcome this proposal from my colleague Lisco and thank him for introducing this law into the procedure because I am happy to discuss it. Even if this law may not receive support, I believe it will also encourage the ministry to move faster to address this problem. For we are too slow to respond to the problems of time and do not find the right solutions because we have waited too long. The fact is that we have many unemployed young people who prefer to take up any job, if they have sometimes refused to work, we prefer to study further, because there was no suitable work for their profession, as much as they prefer to take any job. I am convinced that we had a wrong human resources policy when we somehow encouraged the majority of the generation to enter high school. That is why we also needed so many school hours of additional learning aid because parents demanded that they be able to enroll in as many schools as possible and not so much at vocational schools. Since I have spent exactly 20 years of my professional life in various secondary vocational schools, I know how important it is to have a normally intelligent young people enrolled in these schools. However, if only those who can't do anything else are enrolled there, then we can't expect to have well-trained craftsmen or that these craftsmen will continue to set up their own business in order to make progress in this profession. I think we need to look this way. Quality vocational education, career promotion, entrepreneurship promotion and then the establishment of its own enterprise, small, medium-sized enterprises. With that, we'll have more employees, so we'll have more taxes paid. And it is pointless to talk about how those employers who educate young people will now take advantage of them. I think that certain social competences are also acquired by those young people who have completed their apprenticeship. Unfortunately, we live at a time when work is not valuable and is becoming less and less practical. So I support you as soon as possible. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u125	Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since I have very little time, I will try to say quickly what I meant more extensively. I certainly support efforts to address this problem. It is undeniable that today there are major problems in secondary education and in vocational schools. It's a so-called apprenticeship problem. In order to address this problem, it is imperative that such measures be implemented as soon as possible to regulate or at least significantly improve the current situation. It is absurd that the economy has a need for a certain professional staff, a profile that cannot be found on the market. This is therefore impossible when there is a need and immediate employment on the one hand, and on the other hand this workforce cannot be found in the labour market. I must admit that I know this system from the former country, which was very well-managed and worked very well, it is said that the economy or crafts and entrepreneurship received the personnel they needed at the time. Above all, we need to find an appropriate way of financing, which is still the biggest problem at the moment. Certainly this funding should somehow be shared, one part of the country, one part of the employers. That would save us. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Kotnik has the word to prepare the mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. The new law that we are considering today is not the first time before us. If we look at it, it was adopted in 1996. In 2006, a new law was passed with significant substantive changes, and at the time, the school minister, Dr Milan Zver, stressed the desire to make schools more responsive to the needs of the economy and to involve the social partners more. In 2006, however, the apprenticeship chapter was deleted because it was not intended to bring about the expected objectives. Why have I read this information quickly, even though you have heard it today? It is because today it is a matter of enforcing something that was once adopted, but it was later discontinued because it did not produce the planned results. I would like to say that, after all the discussions I have heard today, it was clear that we are all aware that regulating the status of apprentices is essential and necessary. And everyone here today wants us to make such a law that it will be of benefit and help to young people. But we're only going to get to that point in cooperation. And here I would like to stress once again that I am pleased that the SDS colleagues have proposed this proposal. I am sure that, in view of all that we have heard today, we will continue to find solutions and also find ideas and find ways to do something together for young people, for their benefit. I will say again, we are not against your proposal, but we are in favour of really thinking about it and bringing it to an end, in cooperation with everyone, including the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Practicing is a topic that has been discussed for many years. We are not the first to be interested in the best possible link between education and the labour market. The aim is to have a positive impact both on the economy and on the system of vocational and vocational education. Finally, apprenticeship and training at the level of the European Union is also a key part of the strategy to combat youth unemployment and social exclusion. Promoting integration between work and education is thus one of the key tools of the European policy agenda in recent years. In 2013, the Member States of the European Union joined the European Alliance for apprenticeships. They committed themselves to improving apprenticeships and similar vocational education systems. The apprenticeship system, as proposed by the law, is to be reintroduced into Slovenian education, and there is a somewhat deeper reflection on the appropriate solutions, so I would like to focus on the three. First. Examples of apprenticeships as known by other comparable countries, such as Austria, Switzerland, Germany, are based on the status of apprentice who is equivalent or at least comparable to the status of worker. This means that apprenticeship contracts must be in line with the laws governing the rights and obligations under Slovenian labour law. This entails the need for legal regulation of the field of apprenticeship, which defines labour matters. In Germany, the Youth Protection Act is responsible for this. In 2013, when the Labour Relations Act was adopted in our country, apprenticeship was completely excluded from the law. Second. One of Slovenia's commitments in the European apprenticeship alliance is to promote secondary vocational and vocational education. The measure to be followed in this regard is therefore the direction of the number of admissions to secondary and vocational education programmes. But this, as a result, means reducing admissions to high school. It is therefore necessary to encourage interest in those professions for which young people are no longer so much interested, but for them employers show the need for them in the labour market. It is therefore necessary to involve different social partners, all stakeholders in social and economic development. Only in this way would we paint a complete picture of where we are actually struggling with the renovation of vocational and professional education. And a third. When we try to compare ourselves with other countries where apprenticeship systems work smoothly, we also need to take into account the broader characteristics of the environment in which apprenticeship is carried out. For example, in Germany, which has an established apprenticeship system, the Chambers play a strong role in the implementation of the apprenticeship system. There the Chambers have a professional membership, and with us the mandatory membership was abolished a few years ago. Therefore, we cannot simply adapt the German model because we lack an important article. The successful apprenticeship system is often linked to the professional support provided by the Chambers. I have highlighted some open issues that must be resolved before the introduction of the apprenticeship system in Slovenia. Slovenia has demonstrated its belief in the importance of integrating the labour market and the education system by joining the European Alliance for Training in 2011. For a good and functioning apprenticeship system in our country, however, we need to consider how to introduce it into two, not yet connected, systems: education and work. Just copying a model of apprenticeship, as they know abroad, is not the best solution and hides traps. Therefore, we need to pay attention to his complete orderliness. The bill is welcome as an initiative and our joint task is to provide new generations with education that will provide them with bread. However, the law must be such as to ensure that they are also provided with safety in case of injuries at work, pension insurance, regular payment and even with a pensioner of other rights. The proposal under consideration does not guarantee this. In order to avoid possible developments that might be incomplete, perhaps doubtful, to quickly written and inconsistent legislation in the event of a work accident, in the event of an accident, it is better that the applicant completes the proposal in this respect. On this subject, we certainly do not fight an ideological fight, my dear fellow Lisec. Here we are united, together we push our way to good masters, smart schools and safe communities with many employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am also pleased that today our debate is constructive and, above all, in the desire to do something really in this area. A number of debaters have expressed their willingness to come to concrete solutions in this area and are ready to move in together. Let us show that we will stand together and allow this law to go through this consideration and then improve it together. Why not? I'm sure it's a good foundation, and you've all talked about it in a way. It certainly has shortcomings, but this does not mean that it should be rejected simply because it is a proposed Slovenian Democratic Party. If that is not the case, then this law certainly deserves a step forward, where, as Tomaž said as the bill's proponent on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, there will be a possible public debate in which various experts can be involved either from the economy or from education. Let us show our willingness to cooperate and give this law a chance. You know, we talk a lot of years and years, structural unemployment, structural unemployment. What are we actually willing to do to make this smaller? One of the forms is almost this law. Of course he won't completely eliminate it. That would be Utopia if you said that. But I'm sure it can help make this one smaller. Let me tell you an example of one of the Slovenian entrepreneurs. He was actually looking for an employee for two jobs. One was called the so-called secretary, the administrator, and the other was the professional part of the company. It was a need for a highly educated worker, though. Do you know what kind of applications came in? As has been said, for the first job, there are approximately 800 requests for a secretary. For another job, it's called a skilled worker and one job alone. This is the reality we face and must worry us. The data that we provide and are essentially used by the Ministry of Education say that from 2011, 2012, 2013 lower vocational education falls, as well as secondary vocational education. So the deficit will still be present. In Slovenia, we have a lot of educated people in the professions of social interest on the one hand, and on the other hand, not only is there a lack of professions, but some professions are virtually gone. In this debate, some, I think, colleagues on the side that is not in the Chamber have talked about the fact that we want to prevent better education, higher levels of education and so on by means of this bill. That's not true. It's not like that. It is not possible to understand this in any of these records. You know, I think a colleague from Desus had a very interesting discussion before, and she was also to me when he was talking about how you can make progress from apprenticeship. That's right. You can move on from these professions, too. And once upon a time, apprenticeship already existed. My father's example shows that he came from apprenticeship to a university-educated man. You know what I'm most happy about today? Mr. Krizanic is laughing, and I'm not laughing, so I'll tell you why. Because I'm extremely happy and proud that when he comes to me, he can even replace a pipe that we unfortunately don't have that knowledge for. So, no matter where an individual in the education system ends up, each of the levels is important. And it must by no means sound less valuable than some of the debates have made this clear. The school system has somehow taken over most of the education program, as far as practical training is concerned. We're talking about now, if we're going to introduce apprenticeships, we're going to burden the country, because it's going to cost something. We are talking about the first stage of this being the burden of the country, but of course, the country can, of course, say, be successful in drawing on European funds compared to some other countries. But last but not least, since this education system is also paid by the state. Well, that costs something, too. That's the system we have now. That's not self-paying. We're talking about some, I'd say, of the flaws in the law, because a dagger would hit the country too much, but I don't think that's quite the case. If it were the will, this law could be implemented as proposed and, otherwise, its implementation is proposed for 2016. The European Commission also stresses that vocational education and training has a key economic role, including in terms of high quality of technical skills, but it is certainly also an added value to education and, above all, the inclusion of young people in the market. You know, apprenticeship seems important to me also because, as it was said earlier, when apprenticeships were carried out in a company, they would lose contact with the educational system. I don't think that's the case, because we would still be part of the education system for hours, and for hours we would be doing practical work in a company where we would get some other knowledge that is also knowledge, and last but not least, it doesn't just give us an education system that they can't get. Not the last attitude towards work, not the last attitude towards customers, businesses, organisations and so on. In this way, someone may find out sooner whether he is a profession or not. Now they're essentially closing this level of education, they're coming, they're trying to do something, and they're finding that this profession is not for them. I think it's a much sadder part of the truth. I don't think it's right for some people to say that it was a similar thing, but it didn't work out. Yeah, she was, but she didn't have enough time to prove herself. Let us look the truth in the eye, and let us say that there were also inter-enterprise educational centres that in some ways took over, but never the apprenticeship came to life as it should have been. Surely a company or a craftsman has many more tools and other working conditions that enable this student to gain better experience in this profession than at school. School space enables something, but it is certainly not possible to do so because of the tools themselves and other needs. We are already talking about the need to squander resources as such in education, and, of course, we want a student to have the same conditions as he would have in the company. Of course, that's not going to work, and it can't be that way. I am particularly pleased with this bill, which is before us, that we are introducing apprenticeships not only for students and those involved in the educational system, but also for those who are applicants for employment. This may lead to more restructuring, more new skills, new professions, and perhaps even new ideas about how you can put yourself as a person in a society and not be forgotten by everyone. In fact, these people often shut themselves down and have a sense of complete exclusion. This may also help to make it easier for them to get back into society. If I finish. Certainly, the law also helps to reduce social exclusion. Last but not least, young people doing this would have earned something, so they could have gotten in touch with the profession sooner. We can talk about the possibility of reducing unemployment, not least if we want poverty. These must be the elements that are worthy of this law moving forward and that we may complete it together in the coming stages. However, I cannot agree with those who say that this law, as such, is not worth further consideration. This means that it is not really about wanting to change things here, because otherwise we will continue to talk about structural unemployment, we will continue to talk about deficit jobs and so on, and nothing will be done. Let us show that we want this subject to be settled and will see when it does, then we can tell what that decision was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary, colleagues and fellow Members! I'm going to try to look at this dual education system somehow, because I've been getting to know it differently, working in this area. However, I must say that the debate was very good, very constructive on all sides, and the proposal is not bad, which was made by the party with the colleagues on the left, if I say so. Above all, I would like to refresh the words of Franco Jurša, a colleague who has really presented education in such a simple, very simple way and especially dual education. I think anyone could understand him. And everything he said was 100% true. Of course, I must say that, in his speech at the time, colleague Tomaž Lisec asked the Minister of Education a little too much, but now the dual system needs to be put in place and what he is doing at the Ministry. You know, he's only been in the Ministry for four months. However, I would like to mention what Mr Franz Jurša mentioned earlier. By the time Dr. Milan Beast was in your government, he was a minister for two years, and this is how it happened. At the time of the Ministry of the Milan Beast in 2006, the entire section on apprenticeship was exempted from the then amendment of the law, since the apprenticeship system did not bring the expected objectives. Look at that, and you'll see it's true. Over the last fifty years, if I look back so little, the forms of vocational and professional education have often changed. Of all the forms, education was the worst targeted. I think those of you who knew that agree. So in the past period we had a dual system, a school model, a rotating system is not a school model, a dual system is not a school model, now, of course, after some remodeling school model, but there have always been problems in this dual and also craftsmanship system, which were very similar in financing. This has been the case with employers, however, because this funding system is very different in us and it is difficult to compare with the Austrians, the Germans. There is a completely different case because there are different rewards that have a much more stimulating effect on young people. But this will also come with us, we have to wait a little while to arrange the system, and I think we will have the conditions and that the dual system certainly has a future in Slovenia. Now we have a school model where professional subjects have been renamed modules, and he added to three-year programmes, of course also to others, but in the three-year maximum, practical training for employers in a total of four-and-a-half weeks to twenty-nine weeks, of course depending on the programmes. I have to say, this current school system isn't bad. Why? I'll give you some reasons. The benefits of practical training in employers are shown in the following. Students who come to practice training with their employer face reality in some way, what awaits them in the future. They have to come at exactly the hour, hours are full, 60 minutes, not 45 minutes, breaks are different. And as I had during this time with various generations of interviews, it actually worked very well on them on this side. This advantage, which has been shown here for training, is very good. But it's harder to talk about education. However, the conditions for education are much better in school than in employers, and we state it in any way. There's also a greater responsibility here, somehow, in the students, they get a sense of responsibility. I'll just say the case. Let's say that something goes wrong at school, but somehow it solves it, and we'll take another material, because the school pays, the state has money. But it's a little different with the employer. When something is done, it is likely that the employer will warn him for the first time, but for the second time, it is spoken differently. From all these interviews I also learned, they said that they were somehow more responsible and that they were much stricter in employers. But they still liked to walk, so it didn't bother them too much. This dual system, which appears every so long and is now back on the wallpaper, sounds very attractive. In my view, of course, the conditions for re-education under the dual system are not given at this point, as funding must first be regulated. As I said before, in this case, Austria, Switzerland and Germany cannot be compared because there is a system of financing substantially different and the status of the apprentice is saved there. This working time, the reward, if you reward him, it costs, and we certainly don't have the money right now. Dear Members, my fellow Members, I must say that without these reasons, without this status and funding of the dual system we will not be able to introduce. But certainly in some future, I think there will be conditions and that this is not a bad system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that the debates that are taking place today on the amendments to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education are the debates that I want as a Member, which are also opened by the opposition and the coalition of some diapazones that are urgently needed. I can say that I am very optimistic today after these discussions, because I believe that we are following the same goals, that you are observing the phenomena that occur during the younger generation, which are structurally unemployed, that you are observing the phenomena of the developed Western countries, which have so-called dual school systems and have proven themselves just in times of crisis for us to say one of the best solutions. I will talk about some things, I would not like to repeat some debate between Members and Members, but I would like to speak from some general or personal aspects that I have seen, as I have spent several years abroad, a few years in Austria in the Munin development company, where we developed hotel card systems for the most luxurious hotels, later automation at Siemens. And here they are, where we have also developed some automation processes, but we have also started with special spraying processes that are being used today by all the best luxury vehicles in the world. My debate will be on how I have met those who have also ended up in these companies as a dual school system, what functions they have performed, what products they have also produced and what added value these products have been. All of us together, if we are to introduce a dual school system, it is not only to adopt legal solutions, we must also be promoters of this system, we must believe in it. All together, respected colleagues and colleagues, those who are parents, those who are not yet parents, because the pleasure of a man in some profession seems to me to be one of those very important aspects of doing something that will remain behind you to produce top-notch products, top-notch services, with high added value. Last but not least, look, I used to be in, I can say, some argument with one of my colleagues who teaches economics at Grass College is a very modest person, although on the one hand she's a great expert in her field, and we used to argue about shoes. She said she would never give more than 50 euros for shoes and that she would change three pairs or five pairs of shoes each year. On the other hand, I explained that I have slightly more expensive shoes, even though I have a colleague who makes shoes. It is called Mario Herzog, whose shoes are now sold on the market between EUR 500 and EUR 3 000. It is a superb manufactory situated in the vicinity of Maribor. The shoes are worn by the largest oligarchs in Russia, their shoes are essentially the largest relatives in Germany, Switzerland, Turkey and so on. What am I trying to say? It's someone who's a craftsman. It's someone who opens a note in his shoes, someone I can say brandy, and this brand also strengthens the country we live in. It's a high added value. In these shoes there is not only a high price to hide, it is a whole range of practical solutions that have proved to be poured into a whole, into some aesthetic whole, and in the end such shoes can endure and I can say even a decade or more. And then with this colleague, we come to a conclusion, and I said, "You use shoes to strengthen the exploitation of the child's day force in China, you destroy jobs in your own country, you reduce value, and you never asked yourself how many chemicals this plastic you wear on your feet maintains. Let's leave the feeling, let's leave the aesthetics, and in the end, there's the organic waste of this shoe." What am I trying to say? See, in these products, Europe is also proving which way it will go. When you're talking about neoliberalism or when you're talking about professions like that, then we can go in this direction of a dual school system, top-notch low-series manufacturing products. This is the biggest opportunity for Slovenia right now. We have a whole range of companies in Slovenia, craftsmen, small family companies that produce top-notch issues. I mentioned a shoemaker who wears the image of one of the best shoe makers in the world right now, the biggest manufacture, I can say, despite the fact that this is a small-scale production. Last but not least, these shoes people buy as fancy Bentley cars, Lamborghinis, get these shoes as a gift. Slovenia has one of the best manufacturers of analogue turntables in the world, Kuzma in Kranj. Maybe you've never heard of him. When you get to London, the biggest audio-phile magazines are about Kuzma, about Kuzma's 30-year-old phonographs. Look what I'm saying. Slovenia must follow this path, the path of a dual school system. Supreme manufacturing is also in the field of the mining industry, in the field of metalworking, in the field of the automotive industry. At the moment when we are talking about the dual school system, in Germany, there is already a tendency in this direction, a new part of the automotive industry is opening up, where the renewal of so-called classic cars is concerned. These are cars that are over 20 years old, according to today's 30-year standard, and they need extraordinary retail production of certain spare parts for these cars. This is an industry that weighs a few billion euros, where top brands are being renewed, i.e. cars after a few years, and they need manufactures, retail products that act as spare parts. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our school system urgently needs a transformation, it urgently needs an additional part of the so-called dual school system. If we want some added value, if we want serious jobs with high added value, where personal income in these companies will be at some decent European level, then we must go this way. The results of Germany, the results of Austria show that this is especially the best for young people at present. I can show you a letter from the circuit chief, Dr. Alexander Majcn, who sent it to me last year, where on the cover of one of the Austrian officers wrote: 80% Einwohner braucht keye Ausbildung. This means, in Austria, 80% of the population does not need academic education. So most people are educated through a dual school system. This does not mean that they do not have an intellectual elite, that they do not have products of high added value, but that they also need to have some relationships in society. In our school system, we've also broken relationships. It is a relationship between those who finish their own level, either through a dual system or through a normal dual system at a secondary educational level or at a higher or academic level, so-called old, according to our opinion, university education, or at a new second Bologna level. These relations have been totally broken in Slovenia. Hundreds of college graduates also shed a bad light on college because if I have a degree that thousands of people have in the same education, in the same profession, it also increases competition and destroys my diploma. On the other hand, if we speak outside this law, the relationship between sociology and nature is catastrophic in colleges today. Totally in favour of sociology and humanities, natural science is shown by less than 20%. When Germany had less than 30% of the engineers in colleges, there was an alarm. A country that has 150 years of top engineering, which has all the biggest patents in the rocket industry, the automotive industry. Last but not least from Otto's engine, diesel engine, Wankel's engine, these are all German products. This country was literally before the alarm years ago when they found that most young people wanted to be educated in humanism, in social science. First of all, it was the result of a variety of lemonade films, they were all lawyers, they all wore ties, they all walked, and no one valued all these craftsmen, all these man-made workshops. But it's the other way around. Germany survived the crisis because it has a strong industry because it has strong engineers and, on the other hand, express manufacturing workshops with good brands sold into the world. This is what has led this country to some higher level of development and this country is totally competitive. I can say that all the countries in Europe are somehow crying out for Germany today. Whatever Germany does, we all kind of watch. We Slovenians can also say that because of German engineers, because of their success, their trademarks, as a result many Slovenian families or parts of Slovenia live. A whole range of subcontractors in Slovenia are working for the German industry today and see why we should not learn from the best, why not follow best practices in the world. Last but not least, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we were preparing the draft of this law, look, I was a third signed, we were also aware of some of the realities that apply in Slovenia, including funding, but I think it is time, I think we can somehow supplement this law, we can get somewhere to say some points of order, tell us where you are disturbed, see if we can do this and try to implement it in Slovenian school space, because I think it is absolutely necessary at this point, very urgently necessary. Young people are a whole type of unemployed, we have structural unemployment at this point, according to the Court of Auditors, about ten thousand fictitiously enrolled. Look, no one's answered yet. Can't we come to college and ask, do you have students who are enrolled and who haven't joined any exams? Isn't that cheating? It's pure fraud, no one's ever been responsible for it. I think EUR 50 million is indirect damage due to the fictitious enrolment in colleges. Now imagine we're turning all this money into a dual school system. Now imagine, those who represent the interests of pensioners, I think we represent them too, and most importantly, that with such a draft law, someone who, at the age of 16, pays contributions and starts partly in the middle of his educational process also works in some serious company to make the most contribution to the pension fund. And it can be a miracle that the pension box will be filled and that it will somehow be stable at least in the long run. These are solutions, look, which are quite simple, you could quite easily implement them. It would be, I could say, some addition to the school system, and I think that the very kind of people who are going to end such a dual school system are the greatest future. Such people often produce precisely such workshops as I was talking about, top-notch products. We're also talking about raising the wood industry all the time. Look, the forerunner for the wood industry is just a dual school system. First, that those masters we still have on the ground who can make top-notch retail furniture, that we use these masters to literally fund them further so that they don't go to the grave with them, but to bring them to the young. These are all stories of the developed Western world. These are the stories you will meet when you travel or are in the most developed countries. It's very simple. The problem is, we get complicated all the time. And that's exactly what our problem is. Today, part of your story or part of this discussion would have ended when you said that the rule of learning was once in force that you would not have to work. Look, this rule was in the communist states. But it was because she was a smoothie. And then they said, "You know what, go to the organization and do it, you finish it, there's a party that's gonna put you in one of the director's responsibilities, and then you don't have to work to get a little more pay." This has never happened in serious capitalism. Look, if you look at traditional brands, there all the kids, including those who went to college, always went to the parent company, to the first cleaner, they went through a complicated process, so that someone could lead this society once in a while. This is how serious capitalism works, which I have personally met, which I think works, which gives the best results that overcomes crises that give quality jobs and stable jobs. Dear colleagues, look, you don't have to be very educated here. I don't know how smart you are. All you have to do is pick up those practices. We picked them up, brought them here from our own experience, and put them on paper. Please, if your debates are sincere, to make comments that this law, if possible supported, support and allow young people to follow a path that I can say myself to recognize, at least some of the ways that are successful and will give some satisfaction to these people. You must know, we have a generation that is on the one hand severely destroyed on the one hand. Look, they finish some long-term process, they don't have jobs, they're apathetic, they live with their parents. We're destroying these young people, they're going abroad, this is a whole series of life stories. And part of these stories, part of the popularization of such professions, also influencing parents, that there is nothing wrong with being a metal cutter, if someone is a good bricklayer, if someone is a top notch. Look, we need to talk about this, promote these people. I believe that this would be one of the most important solutions in this reference to the National Assembly. Here's the basics of it all. Here you have employment, you have an impact on the stability of many cash registers, including health care, not just pensions, which is why a whole range of young people get to know their professions, and they can be redirected. Now young people study, never have any contact with their employer, their future profession, have no relation to it, have no sense of teamwork, to adapt to a collective and so on. Look, these are all some positive indicators, positive arguments that give exactly the basis for what we have prepared for you today. So I believe that many of you have a similar story or have gone through some sort of process in the past. So I ask you once again, logically, normally, to let this draft go through the first reading, to complete it, and to get it through the procedure. I believe that this matter is really necessary in the Slovenian space. I think that we will take one big step together, and we will show that we seriously think that we are aware of how serious countries around us live, which have not been so affected by the crisis. And one more thing, we Members are here to look for solutions, we cannot command employers, we can sympathize, but people have put us here to look for the best solutions to implement best practice in legislation that would give some success mainly in the economy. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I also appeal to you to take the role of Members seriously and to go into this serious marriage solution. It's on your desk today, so please, I sincerely ask you again for your support. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u137	Did I see right before that you wanted me to do it on a procedural basis? Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u138	Mr. President! I appreciate and I think, but I'll also tell you something in an apology. That's when you were just switching with the vice president. You didn't listen to the debaters well enough. Comrade Franz Breznik, I also respect your debate in the second part, but in the first part it was too promotional and too many mentions were made by someone who produces something. I do not think Members and Members should use microphones and cameras for such purposes. Next time, please warn him or us who speak this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u139	I'll take your procedural proposal into account, but next time. The word is Micah Kordish, United Left. Get a government representative ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, allow me to respond to some of the statements that have been made in this debate today, some of the obvious to the representatives of the United Left National Assembly, that they do not have some experience in the real sector, or that idea was presented through the warmest desire that our colleagues from the far right wish us as much experience in the real sector as possible. We socialists have a lot of experience from the real sector. We have put a lot of apprenticeships through this real sector. If we didn't, we wouldn't be here. We were there with many sentences, with many punts, with many labor riots, when people stood up for their rights, stood with them shoulder to shoulder, helped them to organize themselves, and, finally, sometimes more successful, sometimes less successfully achieved the goal they had set. Why am I bringing this up? This is also part of the real sector. This is also part of the reality of the real sector. The only difference between us socialists and you are the far right is that we stand side by side with workers, with workers, with employees, with those who create value, not with those who adopt value, with managers, with capital owners, in short, with those with whom you find yourself so much more. How does this relate to today's debate on the issue of education and the introduction of apprenticeship? I said something about this at the presentation of the United Left's position. The economy is not a single non-problem whole, it is the economy that assumes value and it is those who create this value. According to the proposal, the situation is short of public finances to ensure that those who take that value, who are already rich, still create additional conditions for their wealth in this account. That seems to me to be the point that needs to be highlighted here. The public education vertical is not intended to service one or more individual capital, one or the other capitalist, the manager, but is intended for some general considerations. Of course, we must not forget the freedom to choose a profession where we must by no means close certain doors for the reason of some of our great ideas, but what the economy should look like, while this economy is a capitalist economy, an economy of exploitation. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u141	Procedurally, Mr. Franz Breznik. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u142	Look, I'll use the replica, but if you'll let me use this replica if you give me the word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u143	You don't have time for a replica, I think. You have nine seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u144	I'm gonna check out because in nine seconds, I don't think I can replicate my colleague Kordish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u145	The representative of the Government of Andreja Barle Lakota, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u146	Dear President, honourable Members, thank you very much for your words. I will try to respond as soon as possible to some of the points of view and perhaps repeat what the Minister has already pointed out in the introduction. First of all, with regard to our firm commitment to the field of apprenticeship as our priority. Let me just tell you a few things. The apprenticeship is included in a social agreement signed by the Government with all stakeholders. The apprenticeship is included in the operational programme and is therefore not worried about drawing on European funds for this purpose as well. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is one of those ministries that, in the previous perspective, has been extremely good at drawing on European funds. All development programmes were carried out directly from these funds. And third proof that we are firmly committed to apprenticeship is the invitation to enrol in secondary schools, where we have fully demonstrated to everyone who has proved that in the field of vocational education they have a partner in the economy, it is said that they can provide teaching places, allowing everyone to carry out such programmes in the next school year. Contrary to the fact that all others were simply not assigned invitations to tender. When we asked ourselves what is the aim of apprenticeship and the emphasis was on the response of the education system to the needs of the labour market, stating that, of course, education does not serve only for training for the labour market, but it is also an important component, we talked about that perhaps the education system does not respond quickly enough or well enough to the needs of the labour market. In doing so, I should like to point out that in the field of vocational education, no programme has been designed in any way other than on the basis of professional standards developed with the social partners. If these professional standards are too hard, too complicated, whatever we call it, then this is certainly something that will have to be done in the debate with the social partners. At the same time, it is the definition of professional standards that reminds us of one big problem that we also have, namely how narrow or how wide vocational education is. We are also warned by economists and other social stakeholders that too much training and vocational education can lead to another extreme when technological changes simply lead to the disappearance of professions and the like, which does not mean, of course, that we are not committed to carrying out all the activities in the future for the early introduction of the apprenticeship system. That's what I'm trying to say. Several times have been mentioned, we have wondered whether our students, students, are well enough to deal with the challenges in the labour market and with inclusion in the real sector, as has been said. The very area of vocational education has evidence that the system is not as fragile as it sometimes seems or as sometimes we hear individual cases. Our students achieve excellent recognition in all Euroskills competitions, according to internationally comparable competitions. I would also like to draw attention to where the problem is, if it is so good and wonderful and we all want to introduce apprenticeships. Where exactly is the problem with this story? Why was this possibility omitted in 2006, which was repeatedly mentioned, but this chapter, this part? Because there were two key conditions for the introduction of apprenticeships at the time. Just like we're facing this situation right now. Maybe in a few changed circumstances. However, the two key conditions for the introduction of apprenticeships are first the condition of the economy or the attitude towards it in the real sector, as mentioned several times, and the regulation of the status of apprentices. The status of the apprentice was not regulated at the time either, so that he would be employed in a way that would be known for all obligations and responsibilities. The economy also repeatedly reminds us that it is not only about funding, it is not only about the competence of the economy, but also about the craftsmanship with which I think it could take these students into account, but it is also about a great deal of responsibility, which has been specifically pointed out to both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, to the one who accepts the apprentice, we also think of criminal responsibility. When we ask ourselves about the examples of countries that have successfully introduced or have had this system for a long time, it is clear that when we had this system legally regulated, it was standardised by the example of countries such as Austria and Germany, but these countries, as I say, are also in a completely different economic condition. The tradition is also different, which does not mean once again that we will not use their experience in the final preparation of the models. More. We have gained a lot of experience and looked into these countries as well. The discussion was about the interest in vocational education. Perhaps it would be illusory to claim that someone is deciding on a particular profession or to pursue further education just because his mother told him so. Certainly, the economic situation is affected by the decision you are going to enter, and therefore the trends that have already been discussed today are the trend that many, more and more students decide to pursue vocational and vocational education, the result of simply finding that employment is not practical elsewhere. Why do so many students decide to continue? You were right about all those who warned that there are quite a few students who want to get a job after school, but then they get involved in the follow-up. Of course, there is no reason for what he wanted to do, the reason is to secure status by continuing education. It is therefore necessary to know that this is not a matter of decision or insufficient promotion of vocational education, but, above all, of the circumstances in which we live. Now there's something else about how to proceed. There is certainly too much concern about not drawing on European funds. I can assure you that. In the operational programme adopted, most of the attention is focused on the apprenticeship model, so that we can develop different models to introduce apprenticeships and secure financial resources from European funds. These models will not be introduced at national level by all and immediately, but mainly in areas where the response of the economy will be greatest. That is why discussions are already taking place both with the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, which are those areas where we would provide the key condition that I have already discussed. Not to repeat all of this, because it has already been said, I would like to say in the end that I really thank you for this extraordinary debate, which has also given a lot of encouragement and perhaps some new clues, which has not yet been well thought out in our field, so thank you once again to the initiators and to all the discussers for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u147	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u148	President, thank you again for your word. I hope you will allow me, at the end of the day, to discuss a little more strictly with certain Members' opinions. On behalf of the proposaler, too, I thank the SDS Group for the constructive debate. I think it was necessary for the debate not to go at a time when people say, "Oh, they're saying something without connection in the National Assembly!" And I am also partly satisfied with at least some of Mrs State Secretary's replies, because at first I felt that I might have been a little harsh on the Minister and that she had escaped. But my introductory part was solely about two opinions from two different governments being exactly the same within nine months. I must say that such debates as Mr Jurša has had, I hope, Mr Jurša, that this is now not a bad promotion, that this is a good promotion for you to mention, the debate on the extinction of professions is absolutely in place. Even more. Today, we may have touched little not only the apprentices but also the masters. When I was an apprentice or when I was a student, they said, "Look at him, our apprentice." I said I'm not an apprentice, but it sounds better that I'm an assistant. Then they're masters and so on. And it seems to me that once the apprentices are extinct, the masters will die as well. As previously said in the debate, we have little masters. Also, those masters who are, run away from home many times or have so much work to do, wait a few months to lay down the floor for us, change the tap, paint the apartment, tap the apartment, and so on. When I was in elementary school, I once got a book for a present, and I think there were 500 professions. So there were about 10 sentences about each profession. And I have to say that if I opened that book now, which I still have in my drawer somewhere else, I would probably find that half of these professions have actually died out. Whether this is our targeted education or whether this unfortunate country has somehow failed elsewhere in the past, whether it is others, I will not judge. I am very pleased, however, when the Secretary of State said at the end that the European funds would be drawn. The only thing that bothered me about most of today's debaters was the good purpose of the law, good proposals, but no means. And I really hope that one day this law will see the light of the world. My proposal would be, given what my colleagues in the Mir Cerar Party have said above all, but given that the Minister is from their quota, I would suggest that we give ourselves one such unwritten time-table, because we cannot take a decision today to impose or propose to the Government that by the end of the summer we prepare a proposal for a law to be adopted immediately in the second half of the year and we can also give ourselves time to start implementing the law, I don't know, with September 1st 2016, so let's give one more year to see where we can and to what extent we can also draw on the European funds that obviously exist. Secondly, I will not discuss with my colleagues on the far left, because their debate goes completely beyond the discussions of a normal and balanced legislative proposal, especially because these extreme leftists carry the benefits of these exploitative multinationals. There are words, there are actions. The only thing I would like to point out is that, once we have come forward with this proposal more than before, it is obvious that today, although I am still saying, we are at first reading, if we are going through today, we can give a public presentation of the opinions, we can extend this public presentation of the opinions for the next three months, since it is not said that we must have a public presentation of the opinions at the February session, and then at the March second reading and so on, we can reach this timeframe, there would be no problems. When we speak, I hope that we will not say what was wrong in 1996, what was wrong in 2006, which minister was, whose minister was not, who was not, who introduced something, who did not introduce something, who did not introduce something, but that we will all then realize that we are in 2015 and that with each school year, where the apprenticeship model does not need weight, we will also miss a broad debate on the encouragement of the Government and, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u149	It's okay. You've got ten minutes. We've got time problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u150	Well, maybe even to conclude, because I say, I still hope that by Friday that maybe this principle [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u151	Give him the procedure. We have problems with time, I explain, we've been missing for ten minutes and it didn't count down before when the government's representative, who spoke for fifteen minutes, told us it didn't count down. You've got ten more minutes to watch, you've had fourteen minutes before, you've spent four. And that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u152	To finish a few more sentences. I hope that this principle, which was today or this principled support given to this law today, may be considered by Friday, whether or not we would put a little effort into presenting opinions publicly and then for further consideration. Our condition is not that the law must be adopted in February or in March. I think we have enough time to extend these transitional and final provisions. Our purpose was indeed, as the debate has shown, one constructive debate and one good law. I hope it's a gentlemen's principled agreement. We, too, supported certain amendments of the SD Group in one of the governments, I think it was the Food Act, where we then passed the law through the first reading and eventually made one law that is very good. I may have missed out on the Government's opinion, in particular on the conclusion of the Secretary of State, of several more opinions on these fairly precise statements in the law, whether the required period is 50% for vocational education and 20% for vocational education, whether we have missed or are on the right track, how, taking into account working hours, or is it possible that young people then have health insurance and, of course, pension insurance included how the apprentice's awards are, how is it with the Master's prizes? And once again, if there is no gentleman support by Friday in support of this law, I really hope that what you have promised today will be that the European funds will be drawn forward. Even today, we may not have touched on the issue of apprenticeship for the adult unemployed. I think that, above all, the Social Democrats will be happy to hear that the unemployed as well, which the Minister of Labour has one of the main points of being able to add additional effort here. Dear Secretary of State, we hope that when you speak of wanting a broad consensus on the law that you will prepare, I hope that sooner or later you will also come to the SDS Group of Members and all of these proposals that we have made today, we will also discuss with us. I believe that we will never, although hope is still on the ground, agree on all solutions, and we will also agree with politicians, perhaps either within the educational system or within employers there will be some minor conflicts. But really, and I will conclude with this, I hope that this issue of apprenticeship will come back to this national assembly as soon as possible, that we will adopt law and give young people the opportunity to take the first steps in the real sector through practical knowledge as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u153	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If he wants to, then I'm asking you to sign up. I also warn the representative of the proposer and the government that by raising their hands they can indicate that they want to discuss it in the end. The word is Micah Kordish, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you very much, chairman. I don't think I'm going to need five minutes because I would take this opportunity instead of a replica that would have been hard to use before, to execute a colleague from the extreme right who went very far into the direction of discredit, if you're, what kind of socialists you are, but if you're wearing helmets, if you're using the goods that are produced in capitalism. Dear colleague, I would be happy to wear clothes that are not manufactured in the exploitation system. I would be most pleased to use the goods that are the product of the work of people who have been paid fairly, who actually manage the fruits of their work, who manage their production process. I'm sorry I'm not so lucky. Unfortunately, I don't have this happiness simply because capitalism is a complete system. He's absorbed himself in all the seasons of society all over the globe, and unfortunately that's not possible. For something like that, it would take a little bit of socialism. As for the perceptions that the arguments of the Socialists regarding the proposed law are passed by a debate and that they are simply off, that they have no weight, I believe they seem to you. Why? Because we are practically the only ones to intervene in this discussion with a structural analysis, with a systematic analysis through which we can show what material effects this law actually unleashes, according to some social dynamics, according to a class option. For the company is not one single whole, the company is divided into different segments, into different classes. The fundamental divide in society is undoubtedly between workers, those who have to sell their working ability to survive or to give them the opportunity to rent, and those who take this working ability to rent and not least benefit from the fruits of the work of these people, these workers who are entering a wage relationship. Not only were our interventions in place, they were even fundamental, but they go right into your nose, they undoubtedly go right into your nose, because your proposal reveals what it really is. That it is not a matter of promoting the economy as a means of prosperity for all, but that it is a short bit of subsidy to that narrow, small loss in this society, which is reaping the fruits of this work, which is increasingly richer and richer, while a large majority, 99% of all others are increasingly poor. I believe this is going very well for you, because you can't stand it any differently than some simple discreditation. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further discussion, we will decide on Friday, 30, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 1., in the context of the votes. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members! The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 15th session. 1. 2015 set out the text of the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decree establishing and completing the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly, in order to comply with the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, which amended or supplemented the working areas of certain ministries. This was followed to a large extent by the latest amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was the basis of the current decision establishing and completing the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and to a certain extent has also resigned and amended or supplemented the actual powers of certain ministries. Among the key changes, I highlight the transfer of the area of public procurement from the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and the transfer of the area of systemic regulation of economic public services from the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. The proposal also includes the transfer of the area of cohesion policy from the Committee on the Economy to the competence of the Committee on European Union Affairs, as it makes sense, with a view to improving the control of European cohesion policy in Slovenia, that the competent committee should take decisions and consider documents relating both to the adoption of basic acts for this area at European Union level and at the national level setting out its implementation in Slovenia. In addition, the powers of this Committee shall be supplemented by the examination of the basic documents of the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia relating to the European Semester and the formation of a deep and genuine economic and monetary union, which is already being implemented in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr President, Madam Secretary-General, Members and Members of Parliament! Today's Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decree establishing and completing the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly follows the amendments to the Law on State Administration, which we adopted in December 2014. The main purpose of the amendment is to change the working areas of some ministries, which consequently means that the work areas and tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly need to be changed. Most of the changes fall within our competence in the work area of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, complemented by the work area on waste management and resource efficiency, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, the management of genetically modified organisms and the systematic regulation of economic public services. The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government takes over the area of public procurement, system-wide regulation of administrative fees, management of information communication systems and integrity and prevention of corruption. By changing the centralisation of state information, better support will be provided to all authorities and will be more transparent at the same time. The cohesion policy area is one of the key areas in which Slovenia expects grants to be drawn. It is crucial, however, that the area be transferred from the Committee on the Economy to the work area of the EU Affairs Committee, as it will only be able to ensure better control of European cohesion in the Republic of Slovenia, and the Committee will also be responsible for monitoring decisions relating to the adoption of the basic acts of the European Union. There has been an increasing number of activities in the field of social entrepreneurship. Social entrepreneurship is a new form of entrepreneurship in a company that takes into account market activity and creates new jobs for vulnerable groups and people. Like classical enterprises, social enterprises also belong to the economy market, although profits are generally not shared, but profit is returned to the company. We have already supported the adoption of the amendment of the law by the Social Democrats to transfer the labour sector of social entrepreneurship to the Ministry of the Economy. As a result, it makes sense to complement the work area of the Committee on the Economy with social entrepreneurship. The Social Democrats will unanimously support the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Establishment and Tasks of the Labour Bodies of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u159	The word is sent by the SMC Group, for her mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! The SMC Group supports the proposal for a regulation on amendments and additions to the Decision on the Establishment and Tasks of Work Bodies. This follows logical changes to the Law on State Administration, as has already been said, as well as amendments to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Transfer of the area of public procurement from the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and the area of systemic regulation of economic public companies from the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. We also support the transfer of the area of social entrepreneurship from the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to the Committee on the Economy, which has not been mentioned anywhere in the Law on State Administration. In particular, we support the proposal for a decree in our own work, where we have also taken the initiative to include the transfer from the Economic Committee of cohesion policy to the European Union Affairs Committee, as a board of directors on the subject, especially at the time of the establishment of a single Ministry without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. This is how we support the transfer in particular with a view to improving the control of European cohesion policy in Slovenia. It makes sense for the competent committee to take decisions and to consider documents relating both to the adoption of basic acts for this area at European Union level and to those at national level setting out its implementation in Slovenia. In addition, the competence of this Committee to deal with the basic documents of the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia relating to the European Semester and the formation of an in-depth and genuine economic and monetary union is being complemented, as has already been done in practice, as mentioned by the President of the National Assembly. We will be happy to support this motion for a decree in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u161	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Let me begin by saying that our Group of Members has no reservations as to the content of this amendment, which means that all Members will vote in favour of its adoption. That this is an act that is practically the legal basis for working bodies in this house and thus in the National Assembly as such, we all know, and I will not waste my time doing so. We are all also aware that this amendment under consideration is due to the adaptation of legislation defining the working areas of individual ministries, the Government Act and the State Administration Act. These two laws have changed the structure of the government according to the previous mandate and have redefined some ministers or ministers and thus their work area. This right that the functioning and structure of each government in the ministries is shaped in its own way, has a win-win policy option every time, and every opportunity takes advantage of it. As I have already mentioned, committees or working bodies are then reflected in the National Assembly. For example, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is covered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Also, the name is usually adopted. Whether it is urgent and prudent that our committees coincide with the number of ministries, I would not be able to give you an accurate answer. However, this question comes to me when the basic decision is taken. In the past, for example, we had in the field of environment and space both a separate ministry and a separate committee in the National Assembly. When this ministry was abolished in the previous term, we did not have a single committee in the National Assembly. Once again, the government has decided to be a single Ministry of Environment and Space, and we do not have a single committee here to cover this area. Of course, this does not mean that we do not deal with environmental matters in the National Assembly. Of course they are. In view of all the natural disasters in recent years, the debates on this committee, which is responsible for the environment and space, but which would have been as high as possible, would have been more thought-out, more effective if there had been a committee covering only this area. I am merely giving this thought to you, but it is by no means understood as the request of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, even though it is an exposed case for an area covered by our Minister in the government. With regard to the decision under consideration, as I have already mentioned, we will also support it in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u163	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. At the same time, I note that there are no applicants for the general debate. I inform you that no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, so we will decide on the motion for a decree on Friday 30, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 1. 2015, in the context of the votes I hereby terminate the 13th item of the agenda and also the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
